# 11, 13 and 33 - The Illuminati / Freemason Signature

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_illuminati_14.htm

by Robert Howard Updated 11/30/2001 from TheForbidedenKnowledge Website
In my research regarding the Freemasons, United States Presidents and The Masonic Power Structure I was constantly running into the number 13 and 33.
This research confirmed that most of the founding fathers were Masons. It also confirmed that most of the Presidents were Masons. My first run in with 13 of course was the 13 colonies.
Second was the great Seal.
"The numbers 3, 7, 9,11,13, 33, 39. Any multiple of these numbers have special meaning to the Illuminati. Notice that the Bilderberg Group has core of 39 members who are broken into 3 groups of 13 members in each group. Notice that the core of 39 answers to the 13 who make up the Policy Committee. Take special notice that the 13 members of the Policy Committee answer to the Round Table of Nine. You know that the original number of states in the United States of America was 13. The Constitution has 7 articles and was signed by 39 members of the Constitutional Convention." Secret Societies / New World Order" by Milton William Cooper
"The numbers 3, 7, 9,11,13, 33, 39. Any multiple of these numbers have special meaning to the Illuminati. Notice that the Bilderberg Group has core of 39 members who are broken into 3 groups of 13 members in each group. Notice that the core of 39 answers to the 13 who make up the Policy Committee.
Take special notice that the 13 members of the Policy Committee answer to the Round Table of Nine. You know that the original number of states in the United States of America was 13.
The Constitution has 7 articles and was signed by 39 members of the Constitutional Convention."
Secret Societies / New World Order" by Milton William Cooper
Occultists the world over believe that, once a symbol is created, it acquires power of its own, and more power is generated when such symbol(s) are created without the profane [uninitiated] knowing about it.
And, the greatest power of all is created in the symbol(s) if the uninitiated NEVER discover that the symbol exists.
MASONIC SYMBOLS OF POWER IN THEIR SEAT OF POWER -- WASHINGTON, D.C.
There are 13 leaves on the left olive branch with 13 berries. 13 stripes on the middle shield. 13 arrows on the right. 13 stars above the eagles head. 13 letters in the "E Pluribus Unum" on the ribbon. 13 letters in Annuit Coeptis. There are 13 blocks top to bottom on the pyramid. Fritz Springmeir in his The 13 Bloodlines says these 13 blocks represent the 13 Satanic familys.
There are 13 leaves on the left olive branch with 13 berries.
13 stripes on the middle shield.
13 arrows on the right.
13 stars above the eagles head.
13 letters in the "E Pluribus Unum" on the ribbon.
13 letters in Annuit Coeptis.
There are 13 blocks top to bottom on the pyramid.
Fritz Springmeir in his The 13 Bloodlines says these 13 blocks represent the 13 Satanic familys.
In the circles at the end of the hexagram points it even spells the word Mason. (image right) The Roman Numerals at the bottom of the Pyramid: MDCCLXXVI We do not have to add them together to get the MARK OF THE BEAST OR THE NUMBER OF HIS NAME. John does not tell us to ADD THEM TOGETHER. It is not that we cannot add them together, but the point is John does not TELL US TO ADD THEM TOGETHER.
We then will take a different tact to solve the riddle. We will use EXACTLY WHAT THE BIBLE TELLS US: 600, 60 and 6. We will start with the REVERSE GREAT SEAL, the SEAL THAT DANIEL GAVE TO US.
Embedded at the base of the PYRAMID ARE THE ROMAN NUMERICAL LETTERS: "MDCCLXXVI". Now you would normally read that as 1776, which is correct. THAT IS THE "OBVIOUS" MEANING OF THOSE LETTERS. But what is the HIDDEN NUMERICAL VALUE OF THOSE LETTERS?
And what if we took all of the Roman Numerals together and added them up?
The Romans used the following letters for their number system: DCLXVI with D=500, C=100, L=50, X=10, V=5, nd I - 1. The M letter was not used until much later. Now if we take these letters and add them all up, we come to 666.
There are 13 stars in the Masons square on the treasury seal on the right.
The Department=13 of the treasury=13. (image right) E.W. Bullinger writes:
"As to the significance of thirteen, all are aware that it has come down to us as a number of ill-omen. Many superstitions cluster around it, and various explanations are current concerning them. "Unfortunately, those who go backwards to find a reason seldom go back far enough. The popular explanations do not, so far as we are aware, go further back than the Apostles. But we must go back to the first occurrence of the number thirteen in order to discover the key to its significance. It occurs first in Gen. xiv. 4, where we read Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and the thirteenth year they REBELLED. "Hence every occurrence of the number thirteen, and likewise of every multiple of it, stamps that with which it stands in connection with rebellion, apostasy, defection, corruption, disintegration, revolution, or some kindred idea." (Bullinger, E.W. Number in Scripture, Kregel Publications, (c)1967, p. 205).
"As to the significance of thirteen, all are aware that it has come down to us as a number of ill-omen. Many superstitions cluster around it, and various explanations are current concerning them. "Unfortunately, those who go backwards to find a reason seldom go back far enough. The popular explanations do not, so far as we are aware, go further back than the Apostles.
But we must go back to the first occurrence of the number thirteen in order to discover the key to its significance. It occurs first in Gen. xiv. 4, where we read Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and the thirteenth year they REBELLED. "Hence every occurrence of the number thirteen, and likewise of every multiple of it, stamps that with which it stands in connection with rebellion, apostasy, defection, corruption, disintegration, revolution, or some kindred idea."
(Bullinger, E.W. Number in Scripture, Kregel Publications, (c)1967, p. 205).
Was not the founding of America in REBELLION of England? The number 13 and 33 is the freemasons number. In the Nations Capitol the father of "ONE nation under God," George Washington, is memorialized in the rotunda ceiling on a mural entitled, The Apotheosis of Washington. The mural pictures the nations first father surrounded by 13 maidens. On August 6, 1945 at 8:15 a.m. United States B-29 bomber Enola Gay, on Mission No. 13, dropped an atomic bomb called "Little Boy" on Hiroshima, Japan near the 33rd Parallel. This was "Day One" of a new age, the Nuclear Age. To understand the change that took place, we must back up and look at the importance of the number 13 from the formation of the United States to the atomic bombs explosion in Hiroshima. In 1935, Paul Foster Case wrote:
"Since the date, 1776, is placed on the bottom course of the pyramid [on the Great Seal], and since the number 13 has been so important in the history of the United States and in the symbols of the seal, it is not unreasonable to suppose that the thirteen courses of the pyramid may represent thirteen time-periods of thirteen years each." The 13 time-periods of 13 years each equaled 169 years. From July 4, 1776 to July 4, 1945 equaled 169 years. From July 4, 1945 to August 6, 1945 (Hiroshima) was 33 days. "President Kennedy was wounded in the exact three same spots as Hiram Abif, who was murdered in the Masonic initiation, representing the persecution of the Templars on Friday, the 13th, in the year 1307, where Hiram Abif is struck in the back, and in the throat, and in the head. Dealey Plaza is just a very few short miles from the 33rd parallel. The highest degree of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, the Meritorious Degree, the Degree of the Illuminati, whose motto is "Ordo Ab Chao" or "Out of Chaos Comes Order" - which literally means if they break down the existing structure and cause the population to cry out for order, they will emerge as the rulers and will have the world that they seek." United States Presidents And The Masonic Power Structure May 13, 1914 - Fatima Vision May 13, 1941 - Stalin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for war May 13, 1981 - Popes attempted assassination May 13, 2000 - Third secret partially revealed. Relates to Popes shooting on May 13, 1981 May 13, 2000 - Pope alludes to the Beast rising out of the sea in Revelation. The Beast has 7 heads. May 13, 2000 - Putin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for-? The Cuban missile crisis lasted 13 days, which suggests a ploy or fake crisis. The upcoming movie is even entitled "13 Days."
"Since the date, 1776, is placed on the bottom course of the pyramid [on the Great Seal], and since the number 13 has been so important in the history of the United States and in the symbols of the seal, it is not unreasonable to suppose that the thirteen courses of the pyramid may represent thirteen time-periods of thirteen years each."
The 13 time-periods of 13 years each equaled 169 years. From July 4, 1776 to July 4, 1945 equaled 169 years. From July 4, 1945 to August 6, 1945 (Hiroshima) was 33 days.
"President Kennedy was wounded in the exact three same spots as Hiram Abif, who was murdered in the Masonic initiation, representing the persecution of the Templars on Friday, the 13th, in the year 1307, where Hiram Abif is struck in the back, and in the throat, and in the head. Dealey Plaza is just a very few short miles from the 33rd parallel.
The highest degree of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, the Meritorious Degree, the Degree of the Illuminati, whose motto is "Ordo Ab Chao" or "Out of Chaos Comes Order" - which literally means if they break down the existing structure and cause the population to cry out for order, they will emerge as the rulers and will have the world that they seek."
United States Presidents And The Masonic Power Structure
May 13, 1914 - Fatima Vision May 13, 1941 - Stalin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for war May 13, 1981 - Popes attempted assassination May 13, 2000 - Third secret partially revealed. Relates to Popes shooting on May 13, 1981 May 13, 2000 - Pope alludes to the Beast rising out of the sea in Revelation. The Beast has 7 heads. May 13, 2000 - Putin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for-?
May 13, 1914 - Fatima Vision
May 13, 1941 - Stalin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for war
May 13, 1981 - Popes attempted assassination
May 13, 2000 - Third secret partially revealed. Relates to Popes shooting on May 13, 1981
May 13, 2000 - Pope alludes to the Beast rising out of the sea in Revelation. The Beast has 7 heads.
May 13, 2000 - Putin divides Russia into 7 districts in preparation for-?
The Cuban missile crisis lasted 13 days, which suggests a ploy or fake crisis. The upcoming movie is even entitled "13 Days."
Many movies have the number 13 in the title.
13 Frightened Girls (1963) 13 East Street (1952) 13 Floors (1991) 13 West Street (1962) 13 Fighting Men (1960) 13 Ghosts (1960), a remake of this movie is in the process right now 13 Lead Soldiers (1948) 13 Men and a Gun (1938) Apollo 13 (1995) 6 Days and Seven Nights with Harrison Ford. 6+7=13
13 Frightened Girls (1963)
13 East Street (1952)
13 Floors (1991)
13 West Street (1962)
13 Fighting Men (1960)
13 Ghosts (1960), a remake of this movie is in the process right now
13 Lead Soldiers (1948)
13 Men and a Gun (1938)
Apollo 13 (1995)
6 Days and Seven Nights with Harrison Ford. 6+7=13
We even have a rating for movies PG-13.
In case you didnt know it, Hollywood is owned by the masons. Obvious isnt it. John Wayne was a mason. How many of us played cowboys and Indians. No one wanted to be the Indian. Indians got killed we all knew that. This was Hollywoods way of glorifying the mass murder of a race of people. Same way in Germany.
The kids played Nazi SS and Jews. Every kid wanted to be a Nazi, never the Jew or Christian. Gene Rodenberry creator of Star Trek series was a mason. Even the name Vulcan was the name of a false Roman god. The communicator is a pyramid. By the way Star Trek was created to get us ready for a fake alien invasion to usher in the New World Order. See: The Fake Alien Invasion You know the old expression, " Life imitates art", more truth to that then you realize. Watch and listen to the movies you watch. They always slip the numbers 13 or 33 in there somewhere. Remember the movie On Any Given Sunday.
The quarter back was number 13 and the receiver was number 33. Who could miss the the all seeing eye through-out the movie. This message was obvious to me. What they were saying is this. There are 33 titles in the Old Testament for the antichrist, while there are 13 in the New Testament. Satan (13) is the quarterback.
33rd degree Masons are the receivers. In other words the 33s are bringing back the old testament Egypt Isis/Osiris/Ra/Satan one world religion Zep Tepi. Zep Tepi was that corrupt "Golden Age" of incarnate demons which the Egyptian mystery religion represented and continues to represent. It is an ancient violent and immoral world which developed before the Flood which New Age spirit guides are seeking to re-establish. They are seeking to reestablish this age under Globalism to be ruled once again by 13/Satan New testament Anti-Christ. 1997 Diana and Dodi Fayed died when a Mercedes provided by Mr. Al Fayed and driven by his employee, Henri Paul, ploughed into the 13th pillar in the Alma tunnel in Paris on August 31 1997. One example relevant to our study is the explosion of the Apollo 13 spacecraft, name Aquarius which occurred at 1:13 in the afternoon (1313 military time) on April 13, 1970. Mars Pathfinder landing site (19.5° N by 33.3° W) - July 4th, 1997. Basketball superstar, international cultural icon, and real life hero Micheal Jordan retired from the NBA after completing 13 AMAZING seasons as the most successful sports superstar of ALL TIME on Wednesday January 13, 1999.
UPC/EAN-13 Bar code system. Vice President Gore conceded on the 13th day of December, which officially made Bush president on the 13th day, which suggest a ploy to bring about a change in the voting process.
REGIONAL LEADERSHIP COUNCIL The United States has been divided into seven different regions geographically. Each region has a 13 member leadership council that coordinates with the local leadership councils (are you getting the idea by now? The Illuminati are set up a lot like "Amway" or any other well-organized business enterprise with a flowchart of accountability for each member). This council will look something like this: Head of council (1), Military (2 seats), Spiritual (2 seats), Scholarship (2 seats), Finances (2 seats), Training (2 seats), Sciences (2 seats). Total: 13 members The regional councils will represent the different areas of interest and knowledge that the Illuminati pursue. The membership will change over time as members are promoted or demoted. www.centrexnews. com/columnists/svali/2001/02/svali12.html In a similar fashion, JFK, Jr., was killed and committed to the waters of the Atlantic close to the intersection of the N. 41 parallel and W. 71 meridian; summing up, 4 + 1 + 7 + 1 = 13, the most Masonically correct number. This intersection, southwest of Marthas Vineyard, is also close to the small island called No Mans Land. "No Mans" is a Baconian cypher for "Mason", i.e., Mason Land. JFK, Jr., and his public wife, Carolyn Bessette, were married on Cumberland Island, off the coast of Georgia. This island is close to the intersection of the N. 31 parallel and the W. 81 meridian; again, 3 + 1 + 8 + 1 = 13 Paranoid Pattern Finding & Masonic Cues Just the below info would be enough to convince me of the occult nature of 13. This is the completion of the sacred geometry of the Priory of Sion. Blessed be the SERPENT who told Eve, "Thou shalt not surely die..." A Sacred Covenant was made between ALMIGHTY GOD and the re-assembled 13th Tribe of Levi on the 27th of September, 1973. We were a genuinely archetypal institution. My abduction was not co-incidental but part of the Grand Design. It represented the birth of a New Earth Nation - GENESIS II. The child I carried was called THOTH, (though at the time I first heard this word it meant nothing to me. Thoth suggested that we link in all the threads to the old narrative... the Original Intent of the Egyptian Thesis. http://www.reach.net/~star1/seph.htm Another interesting fact to consider is that of the 37 Presidents of the United States before Jimmy Carter, at least 18 or 21 (depending on which source you believe) were close relatives. That comes to somewhere between 48.6 percent and 56.7 percent-far to much to be coincidence, as any conspiritologist (or mathematician) would tell you. Of the 224 ancestors in the family tree of 21 Presidents, we find 13 Roosevelts, 16 Coolidges, and 14 Tylers. Another source manages to relate 60 percent of the Presidents and link most of them to the super-rich Astor family. This data does not include genealogies of the five most recent President. Psychologist G. William Domhoff claims that a large part of Americas Ruling elite, just like that of Europe, are related by marriage. (Everything is Under Control. Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-Ups by Robert Anton Wilson pg 39-40)
REGIONAL LEADERSHIP COUNCIL The United States has been divided into seven different regions geographically.
Each region has a 13 member leadership council that coordinates with the local leadership councils (are you getting the idea by now? The Illuminati are set up a lot like "Amway" or any other well-organized business enterprise with a flowchart of accountability for each member). This council will look something like this: Head of council (1), Military (2 seats), Spiritual (2 seats), Scholarship (2 seats), Finances (2 seats), Training (2 seats), Sciences (2 seats). Total: 13 members The regional councils will represent the different areas of interest and knowledge that the Illuminati pursue. The membership will change over time as members are promoted or demoted. www.centrexnews. com/columnists/svali/2001/02/svali12.html In a similar fashion, JFK, Jr., was killed and committed to the waters of the Atlantic close to the intersection of the N. 41 parallel and W. 71 meridian; summing up, 4 + 1 + 7 + 1 = 13, the most Masonically correct number. This intersection, southwest of Marthas Vineyard, is also close to the small island called No Mans Land.
"No Mans" is a Baconian cypher for "Mason", i.e., Mason Land. JFK, Jr., and his public wife, Carolyn Bessette, were married on Cumberland Island, off the coast of Georgia. This island is close to the intersection of the N. 31 parallel and the W. 81 meridian; again, 3 + 1 + 8 + 1 = 13 Paranoid Pattern Finding & Masonic Cues Just the below info would be enough to convince me of the occult nature of 13. This is the completion of the sacred geometry of the Priory of Sion. Blessed be the SERPENT who told Eve, "Thou shalt not surely die..." A Sacred Covenant was made between ALMIGHTY GOD and the re-assembled 13th Tribe of Levi on the 27th of September, 1973. We were a genuinely archetypal institution.
My abduction was not co-incidental but part of the Grand Design. It represented the birth of a New Earth Nation - GENESIS II. The child I carried was called THOTH, (though at the time I first heard this word it meant nothing to me. Thoth suggested that we link in all the threads to the old narrative... the Original Intent of the Egyptian Thesis. http://www.reach.net/~star1/seph.htm Another interesting fact to consider is that of the 37 Presidents of the United States before Jimmy Carter, at least 18 or 21 (depending on which source you believe) were close relatives.
That comes to somewhere between 48.6 percent and 56.7 percent-far to much to be coincidence, as any conspiritologist (or mathematician) would tell you. Of the 224 ancestors in the family tree of 21 Presidents, we find 13 Roosevelts, 16 Coolidges, and 14 Tylers. Another source manages to relate 60 percent of the Presidents and link most of them to the super-rich Astor family.
This data does not include genealogies of the five most recent President. Psychologist G. William Domhoff claims that a large part of Americas Ruling elite, just like that of Europe, are related by marriage.
(Everything is Under Control. Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-Ups by Robert Anton Wilson pg 39-40)
How many of you remember when we were kids the first secret code we learned was the alphabet with a number above each letter.
Starting with the letter A with the number 1 above it ending with Z which would of course represent the number 26. We used to pass coded letters to our buddies in class using this code. At least I did.
Take a piece of paper and lay out this code. It should look like this.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
This code is one of the simplest codes there is. You can even do it in reverse. A being 26 until Z is 1. Now using the code above, apply that to the following government and media establishments. And do the math. The number 13 or 33, sometimes both are cleverly hidden in the initials.
3 2 - 19=13 The Eye of Horus . Same as Dairy Queen C B S 3 14 14 =3+1+4+1+4=13 C N N 3 9 1=3+9+1=13 C I A (Central Intelligence Agency ) 4 8 19=4x8=32-19=13 D H S (Department of Human Services) 6 2 9= 6- 2=4+9=13 F B I 14 19 1 = 1+4=5-19=negative14+1=negative13 ? N S A 1 15 12 = 1+15=16-1=15-2=13 A O L (America On-Line) note the eye in the pyramid . 6 5 13 1 = 6-5=1+13=14-1=13 F E M A (Federal Emergency Management Association) 5 16 1 = 5+1=6+6=12+1=13 E P A (Environmental Protection Agency) This is a shame. Its the only way they could charge us for the air we breathe. 13 9 F = 1+3=4+9=13F F=Freemason M I 6 (British Intelligence) This one is freemason from front to back 23 8 15 = 2x3=6-8=-2+15=13 W H O (World Health Organization) 10 7 2 This one was very clever. Its reversed. = 2x7=14-01=13 K G B (Russian Intelligence) 14 1 6 20 1 This one is reversed also. = 1x20=20+6=26+1=27-14=13 N A F T A (North American Free Trade Agreement) 14 1 20 15 = 14-1=13-20=negative 7-1=negative 8-5=negative 13 ? N A T O (North Atlantic Treaties Organization) 20 2 14 =20-2=18-1=17=4=13 T B N (Trinity Broadcasting Network) TRINITY BROADCASTING NETWORK The biggest and most evil force of unholy false Christianity 21 19 1 = 2x1=2+1=3+9=12+1=13 U S A
3 2 - 19=13 The Eye of Horus . Same as Dairy Queen C B S
3 14 14 =3+1+4+1+4=13 C N N
3 9 1=3+9+1=13 C I A (Central Intelligence Agency )
4 8 19=4x8=32-19=13 D H S (Department of Human Services)
6 2 9= 6- 2=4+9=13 F B I
14 19 1 = 1+4=5-19=negative14+1=negative13 ? N S A
1 15 12 = 1+15=16-1=15-2=13 A O L (America On-Line) note the eye in the pyramid .
6 5 13 1 = 6-5=1+13=14-1=13 F E M A (Federal Emergency Management Association)
5 16 1 = 5+1=6+6=12+1=13 E P A (Environmental Protection Agency) This is a shame. Its the only way they could charge us for the air we breathe.
13 9 F = 1+3=4+9=13F F=Freemason M I 6 (British Intelligence) This one is freemason from front to back 23 8 15 = 2x3=6-8=-2+15=13 W H O (World Health Organization)
10 7 2 This one was very clever. Its reversed. = 2x7=14-01=13 K G B (Russian Intelligence)
14 1 6 20 1 This one is reversed also. = 1x20=20+6=26+1=27-14=13 N A F T A (North American Free Trade Agreement)
14 1 20 15 = 14-1=13-20=negative 7-1=negative 8-5=negative 13 ? N A T O (North Atlantic Treaties Organization)
20 2 14 =20-2=18-1=17=4=13 T B N (Trinity Broadcasting Network) TRINITY BROADCASTING NETWORK The biggest and most evil force of unholy false Christianity
21 19 1 = 2x1=2+1=3+9=12+1=13 U S A
McDonalds restaurant. The big golden M is the 13th letter of the alphabet.
Fritz Springmeier in his 13 Illuminati Bloodlines has already proven the McDonalds are associated with these Satanic families.
Brahms
Does anybody see the 13 in these logos?
Theyre the ones in the government. Theyre the ones behind professional sports. The owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers is a Knight of Malta. The owner of the Detroit Lions is a Knight of Malta. All your top owners of these ball clubs, for the most part, are Knights of Malta, getting the people whooped up in this hoopla over games and sports, while theyre busy creating a tyranny.
So, that was one of the things in the Protocols - that they would create "amusements". Another one they used was Walt Disney, 33rd-degree Freemason - Disneyworld, Disneyland. Another one was Milton Hersey, with Hersey Park. They create all of these amusements and games and pastimes to get the people drunk with pleasure, while theyre busy overthrowing the Protestant form of government. The Black Pope.
14 6 12 12 =6=18-4=14-1=13 N F L 14 12 1 =14-2=12+1=13 N B A
14 6 12 12 =6=18-4=14-1=13 N F L
14 12 1 =14-2=12+1=13 N B A
As kinsmen of our Aryan ancestors were sanctified with the Zaothra, ( Zoroastrian religion is the same as the Luciferian polytheistic religion of Mazdaism, with its chief god being Lucifer going by his alias Ahura-Mazda), or consecrated water, and there-by devoted to the service of Ahura. (32nd Freemason Ritual)
I own two Mazda trucks and they both have 13 gallon fuel tanks.
Mazda is not the only automobile manufacturer to use ancient pagan god symbolism.
Egyptian symbol for the god Ra
In occultic/Satanic doctrine, the upper four points of the Goathead represent the four elements of the world, Fire, Water, Earth, and Air.
The bottom fifth point represents the spirit of Lucifer. In the photocopy of the Goathead Pentagram, the fifth point extends down into the mind of the goat, who represents Lucifer. Thus, in this street layout, the fifth point is the White House, a symbol placement which represents the intention that the spirit and the mind of Lucifer will be permanently residing in the White House.
Dodge Logo. Dodge Ram Trucks. A rams horns turns downwards. This logo cleverly makes it a goat head with the horns upward to represent the goat head.
goat n. 1. A hollow-horned ruminant (genus Capra) of rocky and mountainous regions, and related to the sheep and including wild and domesticated forms. Funk & Wagnalls Standard Dictionary International Edition 1969.
ram (ram) n. 1. A male sheep. Funk & Wagnalls Standard Dictionary International Edition 1969.
What does financial chaos lead us to?.
Chapter 13 bankruptcy
The legal system is owned by the masons. Most of the United States Supreme Court Judges have been Masons. See: United States Presidents and The Masonic Power Structure . The Judges are listed there. 12 jurors and one judge =13. There is no law anywhere that requires 12 jurors. So why 12? Proctor & Gamble (image left) vigorously denies the accusations, contending that the horns are merely curls of hair. And the 13 stars? According to Proctor & Gamble, they represent the original 13 colonies of the U.S.A. The man in the moon, a company spokesman claims, also honors the original colonies.
In 1992, Proctor & Gamble decided to slightly revise its bizarre and troublesome logo. A corporate spokesman announced that the curls (or horns?) were being softened artistically. Other minor changes were also made, ostensibly to alleviate concerns. But rumors and questions still remain.
In any case, soap-maker Proctor & Gamble has filed lawsuits against several people believed to be responsible for spreading the allegations of devilism.
But, in at least one of the lawsuits, the company raised eyebrows when the news came out that Proctor & Gamble was seeking exactly $66,600 in damages! http://www.texemarrs.com/121997/LOGO.HTM Thirteen years later, the French Revolution begins. ("13" is an occultic number: Antichrist emerges from the 13th and lost tribe of Dan. The Munsters live on 1313 Mockingbird Lane and Friday the 13th is associated with bad luck. Sometimes, but not usually, a 13th month is added to the Hebrew lunar calendar.) http://www.666beast.com/countdown.htm On January 7th, Bill Clinton preached a sermon at the Foundry United Methodist Church in Washington, D.C. The sermon lasted precisely 13 minutes: theres that number again!
In the sermon, he told the 700 people in attendance,
"I look forward to finding out whether John Quincy Adams was right when he said, There is nothing so pathetic in life as an ex-president." (3)
I think he was far more pathetic as President. Bill Clinton concluded his 13 minute sermon by thanking the "parish" for its "welcome to gay and lesbian Christians, people who should not feel outside the family of God." (4)
Pastor J. Philip Wogaman and President Clinton exchanged backslaps. http://www.lasttrumpetministries.org/2001/February2001.html
"By the authority vested in me as President (Clinton) by the Constitution and bearing in mind the obligations of the United States pursuant to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and other relevant treaties concerned with the protection and promotion of human rights to which the United States is now or may become a party in the future, it is hereby ordered."
Like the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child uses manipulative and misleading language. According to Article 13,
"The child shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers..."
While parents lose their right to set safe boundaries for their children, the State assumes full power to "protect" the child and define the rules. Thus Article 13 concludes with:
"This right may be subject to certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary for respect of the rights or reputations of others; or for protection of national security or public order."
Likewise, if parents restrict their childs "right to freedom of association" or their childs ambiguous rights to "privacy" or "conscience and religion" (Articles 14 -16), they would break this law and face the potential loss of their child to the states "protection" services. In the context of UN ideology, "national security or public order" refers to the concept of solidarity, a utopian community oneness based on shared values defined by Globalist leaders.
Microsoft Windows Logo
Then there is my favorite hidden 13 and 33. 13 is more pronounced (image right). "1313" CONSTRUCTED WITH ROCKEFELLER FUNDS The 1947-1948 Annual Report of the tax-exempt Laura Spelman Rockefeller Fund revealed:
"In 1938, a new building at 1313 East Sixtieth Street, Chicago (constructed under grants from the Spelman Fund) was completed to provide adequate quarters for the use and occupancy of the national governmental organizations. This building has come to be known as 1313. "
An agency known as the Public Administration Clearing House was set up
Endorsement of the Public Administration Clearing House came from the National Municipal League, the American Municipal Association, etc .
"The Public Administration Clearing House manages the building at 1313 E. Sixtieth Street, Chicago."
Further financing for the "1313" has been provided by the Carnegie Corporation, the Julius Rosenwald (Sears Roebuck & Company) Fund, and the Russell Sage Foundation.
In his article in the January 1973 issue of AMERICAN OPINION magazine Gary Allen said that the primary funding now comes from the Ford Foundation which has "poured tens of millions of dollars into scores, possibly hundreds of regional government projects" promoted by "1313". http://www.sweetliberty.org/beware_metro2.html#Chapter%20VII
Federal reserve act - transferred money issue to Banksters - December 23 1913 Roosevelt declares bankruptcy of US March 9 1933 (or 3/9/33) this one has the 3, 39 and 33.
33
Another big number for the Masons is 33. As this is the highest degree in Masonry you can hold.
14 1 19 1 =14-1=13+19=32+1=33 N A S A
The Enterprise Missions website by Richard Hoagland is the best for exposing NASAs tie to freemasonry.
8 1 1 18 16 = 8-1=7+1=8+18=26+1=27+6=33 H A A R P 21 14 = 2+1=3 1-4=3 3 and 3 make 33 U. N. United Nations
8 1 1 18 16 = 8-1=7+1=8+18=26+1=27+6=33 H A A R P
21 14 = 2+1=3 1-4=3 3 and 3 make 33 U. N. United Nations
There are 33 sections to the United Nations on the inner emblem logo.
Harry S. Truman
As the 33rd President, this 33rd degree Mason initiated the Nuclear Age, the crowning success of alchemy, when the first A-bomb exploded at the 33rd Parallel Trinity Test Site, (Almagordo) White Sands, New Mexico.
He was responsible for killing of thousands of Japanese (the Yellow Peril) at two cities close to the 33rd Parallel, Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
9 2 13 = 9+2=11 1+1+1=3and3 make 33 I B M 24 6 12 = 24+6=30+1=31+2=33 X F L 21 11 = 2=1=3x11=33 U K (United Kingdom) 1+2=3 3 make 33 A B C
9 2 13 = 9+2=11 1+1+1=3and3 make 33 I B M
24 6 12 = 24+6=30+1=31+2=33 X F L
21 11 = 2=1=3x11=33 U K (United Kingdom)
1+2=3 3 make 33 A B C
1947 On July 8, 1947 a UFO and aliens bodies were allegedly found in the desert outside Roswell, New Mexico at the 33rd Parallel. 1946 On August 19, 1946, Bill Clinton, the 42nd President, was born in Hope, Arkansas, at the 33rd Parallel. His parentage is disputed. As a young man, Bill Clinton was a Master Counselor of the Masonic-connected Demolay. ("Demolay" derives from the Grand Master of the Knights Templar, James deMolay (1244-1314)). Clintons ties with the C.I.A. began when he studied at Oxford.
Clintons reign as President has been noted for numerous scandals, including the unexplained deaths of more than 50 of his associates by means of bullets and plane crashes. In David Yallops book, In Gods Name, which exposes the murder of the Pope who was in power for only 33 days, Freemasonry was a major issue. According to Yallop, Pope John Paul I, Albino Luciani, was murdered because he was going to take drastic measures and make drastic changes within the Vatican.
http://www.inforamp.net/~jwhitley/kemp.htm Todays postage stamp is 33 cents. By the way, Prince Charles Coat of Arms (Revelations 13:2) has another symbol - The Order of the Garter. The Order of the Garter is the parent organization over Free Masonry, world-wide. When a man becomes a 33rd Degree Mason, he swears allegiance to that organization, and thereby to Prince Charles.
From http://www.cuttingedge.org/news/n1347.cfm:
4. To enhance all these elements, including #3, the Illuminati would desire to place a man whom they control in the group being sacrificed, most preferably a Manchurian Candidate, i.e., a man whom they have previously programmed by Mind Control to willingly die for the Illuminist cause. David Koresh was just a man. Occultists have been told that he was Illuminist, and had been programmed to be the perfect Manchurian Candidate, quite willing to die for the cause. Koresh was 33 years old, a perfect age for the Illuminati to set him up as the Messiah figure to his cult, as Jesus Christ was 33 years old when He finished His ministry. Additionally, 3 + 3 = 6 , the favorite number of the Illuminati. Remember this first "6", for it becomes very important in a few paragraphs below.
4. To enhance all these elements, including #3, the Illuminati would desire to place a man whom they control in the group being sacrificed, most preferably a Manchurian Candidate, i.e., a man whom they have previously programmed by Mind Control to willingly die for the Illuminist cause. David Koresh was just a man.
Occultists have been told that he was Illuminist, and had been programmed to be the perfect Manchurian Candidate, quite willing to die for the cause. Koresh was 33 years old, a perfect age for the Illuminati to set him up as the Messiah figure to his cult, as Jesus Christ was 33 years old when He finished His ministry.
Additionally, 3 + 3 = 6 , the favorite number of the Illuminati. Remember this first "6", for it becomes very important in a few paragraphs below.
A tiara, or crown with 13 gems, with a diamond in the center, is a symbol of the coming reign of the "chosen one". The Illuminati: Part 7 - Illuminati Symbols and Clues; Level of Infiltration One also must remember the words of Prof. Revilo P. Oliver:
The question of precisely what fires the will of the wealthy supranational elites seeking to manipulate and control world events, has not escaped the attention of serious students of conspiracies and cover-ups. The late American Professor Revilo P. Oliver, a confirmed atheist, was forced to conclude: "A theory that a conspiracy has been working consciously for many centuries is not very plausible unless one attributes to them a religious unity. That is tantamount to regarding them as Satanists engaged in the worship and service of supernatural evil. The directors of the conspiracy must see or otherwise directly perceive manifestations which convince them of the existence and power of Lucifer. And since subtle conspirators must be very shrewd men, not likely to be deceived by auto-suggestion, hypnosis, or drugs, we should have to conclude that they probably are in contact with a force of pure evil." (Prof. Revilo P. Oliver, Conspiracy or Degeneracy?, USA)
The question of precisely what fires the will of the wealthy supranational elites seeking to manipulate and control world events, has not escaped the attention of serious students of conspiracies and cover-ups.
The late American Professor Revilo P. Oliver, a confirmed atheist, was forced to conclude:
"A theory that a conspiracy has been working consciously for many centuries is not very plausible unless one attributes to them a religious unity. That is tantamount to regarding them as Satanists engaged in the worship and service of supernatural evil. The directors of the conspiracy must see or otherwise directly perceive manifestations which convince them of the existence and power of Lucifer. And since subtle conspirators must be very shrewd men, not likely to be deceived by auto-suggestion, hypnosis, or drugs, we should have to conclude that they probably are in contact with a force of pure evil." (Prof. Revilo P. Oliver, Conspiracy or Degeneracy?, USA)
"A theory that a conspiracy has been working consciously for many centuries is not very plausible unless one attributes to them a religious unity. That is tantamount to regarding them as Satanists engaged in the worship and service of supernatural evil.
The directors of the conspiracy must see or otherwise directly perceive manifestations which convince them of the existence and power of Lucifer. And since subtle conspirators must be very shrewd men, not likely to be deceived by auto-suggestion, hypnosis, or drugs, we should have to conclude that they probably are in contact with a force of pure evil."
(Prof. Revilo P. Oliver, Conspiracy or Degeneracy?, USA)
A famous mason Manly P. Hall stated the following,
"When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft. The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly handle energy." (Manly P. Hall, The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, p. 124;)
"When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft. The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly handle energy."
(Manly P. Hall, The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, p. 124;)
The 33 degrees was no mistake.
Its like the temperature, 32 and below is frozen (not knowing) at 33 it thaws (knowing).
The above banner was taken from Nedstat
Being advertised for fox family channel at this moment October 20th
More New World Order Symbolism (aka) Illuminati The Sun Rays (Sun Worship) aka freemasonry
Return to The Illuminati
Return to Masons and Knights Templars
Return to The Secret History of America's Capital - Washington D.C.
