# A New Political Situation in Latin America - What Lies Ahead?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalelite_la98.htm

Q. In your work on South
America, you speak of the duality that has
characterized the last decade. What exactly is
that duality?
A. In
my opinion, the so-called progressive cycle of
the last decade in South America has been a
process resulting from partially successful
popular rebellions,
-
Argentina
-
Bolivia
-
Venezuela
-
Ecuador,
...that altered the
relationship of forces in the region.
They allowed us to
take advantage of higher prices for raw
materials and dollar income in a way that
differed considerably from what prevailed in
other periods. During this interval,
neo-developmental and distributionist economic
policy schemes existed alongside the neoliberal
model.
Politically,
right-wing governments were now joined by
center-left and radical governments. It was a
period in which imperialism's capacity for
action was seriously circumscribed, with a
retreat from the OAS and recognition of Cuba.
David had finally
defeated Goliath and the United States had to
accept that defeat.
It was also a decade
in which there were no Greek-style adjustments
in almost any Latin American countries. And
there were important democratic victories. It is
highly illustrative to compare South America
with Central America.
The level of
aggression that is current in Mexico, Honduras
and Guatemala contrasts with the public freedoms
conquered in Argentina, Bolivia or Brazil, a
clear indication of the scope of this change.
And
Chavismo rescued the socialist project.
For all these
reasons South America became a point of
reference for social movements throughout the
world.
In a recent article
I pointed to a "duality in Latin America"
because this change in the political cycle and
in the relationship of forces coexisted with a
consolidation of the pattern of extractivist
accumulation located in the export of basic raw
materials and Latin America's insertion in the
international division of labour as a provider
of basic products.
That is a natural situation
for a neoliberal government, it forms part of
its strategy.
But for progressive
governments of the center-left, there is a
tension with that structure; and for radical,
distributionist governments, there is a conflict
of huge proportions.
There were
successful rebellions, therefore, that resulted
in distinct governments, some anti-liberal, but
also a situation that sooner or later had to
disappear, since they could not coexist with the
extractivist model and the strengthening of the
traditional dependent economic configuration of
Latin America.
It is that
contradiction that has prevented them from
getting back on their feet in recent months. And
that is why the conservative restoration began,
and with it the debate around the end of the
progressive cycle.
At year-end we are
confronted by two crucial events.
-
First, the
triumph of Macri, which is important
because it is the first instance of a
rightist return to Argentina's
presidency.
Beginning
with the cacerolazos [the banging
of pots and pans in street
demonstrations] the Right built its
political power, defeated Peronism and
formed a cabinet of the "CEOcracy" for a
country now governed by "its proper
owners," a cabinet directly from the
capitalist class.
-
The second
event is more partial but more
significant.
In Venezuela
the Right has won not the government but
the parliament, in conditions of a
brutal economic war, media terrorism,
economic chaos generated by
reactionaries.
And
Venezuela is the most complete symbol of
the radical processes within the
progressive cycle.
Q. What is the situation,
in this new continental scenario, of the
countries that far from duality have maintained
not only the economic pattern but also the
neoliberal policies?
A. One of the major
information gaps in this entire period has been
the concealment of what is happening in the
countries governed by neoliberalism.
You might get the
impression that everything is going marvelously
there and that the only problems in Latin
America are in the other countries.
But in fact this is
a monumental media distortion.
It's enough to look
at the situation in Mexico, a country that has
extremely high levels of crime, destruction of
the social fabric and huge regions rife with
drug trafficking.
Or to see the
situation of Central American countries
decimated by emigration, by the predominance of
crime and with presidents like the one in
Guatemala, who have been removed from office
over corruption scandals.
Or take the Chilean
economic model, which is in a quite critical
situation with significantly reduced growth and
now the appearance of corruption in a country
that has made a show of transparency.
Family indebtedness,
labour precariousness, inequality, and the
privatization of education have begun to
surface. And Bachelet's government is paralyzed.
Those reforms in pensions and education, which
it thought it would carry out, are now delayed.
Looking at the
neoliberal universe we also see the sole case of
debt default throughout this period, in Puerto
Rico, a country that is in fact a North American
colony that has endured,
For a time it was compensated
with public financing but now this prop is
finished and it has defaulted.
So in the countries
where the raw material rents of this super cycle
were not redistributed, the social, political
and economic situation is very serious.
But no one talks
about that.
Q. In this new scenario
that has opened, what do you think will happen
in the neo-developmentalist countries like
Argentina and Brazil?
Will the conservative
restoration in those countries tend to
reconfigure the "blocs," integrating them with
the openly neoliberal bloc?
A. There we can be
very categorical in our balance sheet of what
has happened, and very cautious about what is
coming.
I would separate
things, to differentiate what we know from what
we can imagine. Clearly, in Argentina and Brazil
the change under way is the result of an
exhaustion of the neo-developmentalist economic
model.
That is not the sole cause nor am I sure
that a greater impact can be attributed to it
than to other factors, but it is the background
to the problem.
In both countries
there was an attempt to use a portion of the
rent generated by the increase in raw materials
prices in order to revamp industry and attempt
to build a model based on consumption.
But since we are
operating within the capitalist system this type
of processes has very strict limits, because
what functions at the outset is later exhausted
insofar as capitalist profitability is affected.
The theory of reverse feedback does not work. It
is an illusion of Keynesian heterodoxy to
suppose that with a mere increase in demand a
virtuous circle begins.
The contrary
happens. At some point those governments
encounter a limit, and the classic process
begins, with capital flight and pressure on the
exchange rate - which is what has happened in
both cases.
I think there is an
economic erosion but also there has been a major
political deterioration both in Brazil and in
Argentina.
That erosion was
determined in both cases by the appearance of
social discontent that neither government was
willing to harness by responding to the demands.
That was the climate in which Macri's ascent and
the expansion of the social base of the
Brazilian Right was situated.
That assessment is
clear, but what is to come is not clear. The big
test will be the Macri government. We still
cannot assess that. It is a classic right-wing
government with all the reactionary
characteristics of a right-wing government. But
it is operating in a context of great
combativity.
Thus there is a
contradiction between what it wants to do and
what it can do.
Q. Going back to
Venezuela, in a talk you gave you raised an idea
that we think is important, noting the futility
of always and everywhere applying the cliché
that "what does not advance, retreats," "what
does not radicalize, turns back."
But putting this in
concrete terms, we recall Fidel's recommendation
to Allende after the
Tanquetazo, "This is your Girón."
[3]
What prospects - not
abstract but concrete, in terms of the political
and social forces - do you see for a
radicalization in Venezuela?
What would be the measures
to be taken in that direction?
A. Those phrases are
heard repeatedly, but many of those who use them
forget to apply them when it is necessary to do
so, especially today in Venezuela.
In Venezuela the
progressive cycle and the future are being
defined. It has been the principal process and
its outcome will determine the context
throughout the region.
It is obvious that
imperialism has set its sights on Venezuela. The
United States recognizes Cuba, has friendly
relations with many governments, but not with
Venezuela. There it imposes the decline in the
price of oil, supplies the paramilitary
organizations, finances conspiratorial NGOs,
operates militarily.
It has set in motion
strategies for overthrow prepared for some time
now.
The elections
unfolded in this context of economic war and in
the end the Right achieved its victory. For the
first time it won a majority in the parliament
and is now aiming to call a referendum to revoke
President Maduro's mandate.
The Right will try
to straddle two paths, that of Capriles and that
of López. [4]
The latter promotes
a return to the guarimbas while Capriles
favors a war of attrition against Maduro. And
it is highly illustrative that in Argentina
Macri first proposed an assault behind the
screen of the "democratic clause" [5]
although he later opted to postpone it.
Macri is balancing
between the two strategies (but note that Corina
López, the wife of Leopoldo, was present at his
electoral victory). He will follow the dominant
tone. On the one side López and on the other
Capriles, since the two complement each other.
They are two lines
of the same thing. And Macri is one of those
orchestrating that conspiracy internationally.
Now there is strong
pressure on Maduro to agree to negotiation,
which would leave him overwhelmed without the
ability to do anything. But he can also react
and apply the famous phrase:
a process that does
not radicalize will regress.
He can land a
counterblow.
A big conflict is
approaching, because the parliament under
right-wing leadership will demand powers that
the President is not prepared to give it.
The parliament will
vote amnesty for López and the executive will
veto it. The executive will bring out a law
against hoarding and the parliament is not going
to accept it. Either the executive governs or
the parliament governs, a clash of powers that
is very typical.
In that sense, since
it takes a year to prepare a revocation
referendum - they have to collect the
signatures, they have to have them officially
recognized, [6] they have to
call the referendum and win it - that is going
to generate a major conflict. And therein lies
the dilemma.
There is a
conservative sector, social democratic or mixed
up in corruption, within Chavismo that has no
desire to do anything in response to that
dilemma through a radicalization of the process.
That sector stands
in the way of reacting against the Empire's
aggression. It is obvious that imperialism is
waging an economic war on Venezuela, but the
problem is that Maduro has not managed to defeat
those attacks.
The problem is that
Venezuela is a country that continues to receive
dollars, through PDVSA, [7]
and those dollars are handed over to sectors of
the corrupt civil service, and the capitalists,
who recycle them and ruin the Venezuelan
economy.
Those dollars find
their way,
...and the country lives with queues
and general irritation.
Furthermore, Venezuela
is now burdened with a sizeable public debt. It
does not have enough dollars to pay for all the
imports and at the same time pay down the debt.
In these conditions
the social-democratic and conservative sectors
of the government limit themselves to
complaining about "the terrible situation
imposed by imperialism" but without taking
effective action to thwart that aggression.
And this conduct has
consequences, because it increases
demoralization.
The Right was
victorious not so much because it stole votes
from Chavismo but because people did not go out
to vote. That has happened before. It is a form
of protest that some Venezuelans engage in. And
much more problematic, more serious, is the
attitude of leaders who say goodbye to Chavismo
or return to private life.
They express no
opinion or criticize the government instead of
proposing radical measures against the Right.
That in turn is
accentuated by the government's conduct in
preventing left currents from developing.
Instead of encouraging them, instead of
facilitating their action, it limits their
possibilities. And it maintains the verticalist
structure of the PSUV. [8]
So that's the
situation. And as many people say, this time it
is the last opportunity. Now or never. And this
last opportunity means making decisions in two
very clear-cut areas.
Economically: to
nationalize the banks and foreign trade, and to
use those two tools to define another way of
using the dollars. There are many good
economists who have been saying this for ten
years now.
They have devised
programs that explain in detail how this is
done. So these are not unknown measures. And the
other pillar is political. To sustain the
radicalization, communal power is needed.
Venezuela now has
legislation, a structure, adopted laws, that
provide for administering the country with a new
form of communal organization; from below and
from above, with distinct authorities, in which
democracy is a reality and popular power is not
confined to being a set of defensive
institutions.
It is a decisive
architecture for contending with the parliament
of the Right. If Maduro and the Venezuelan
leadership want to rescue the Bolivarian
process, this is the time for communal power. We
shall see.
What I think is that
the cards are on the table and decisions must be
made. [9]
Q. It has become common
for intellectuals, including activists, to place
their expectations more in the protagonism of
governments than in the protagonism of the mass
organizations.
What is the prospect that
lies ahead for social struggles? What role
should anti-imperialism and anticapitalism have
in them?
A. It is very
important, I think, in any discussion about
whether or not the progressive cycle has ended
to look not only at the governments but also at
what is going on below.
Many writers tend to
assess a cycle in terms of who is exercising the
executive power. But that is only one element.
The cycle originated with popular rebellion and
it is these rebellions that define the
relationship of forces. The process over the
last decade was novel because, through a partial
redistribution of resource rents, many
governments developed social security networks
and consumption patterns that moderated social
struggles.
That is one of the
explanations for why we have not had rebellions
since 2004.
There is a change in
the economic cycle that is going to put the
social struggle back on the agenda, and in this
process discussion of the left project will
resume.
Much depends on what
develops in Venezuela, which has been the
political reference in the recent period for the
significant left, in the same way that the Cuban
revolution or Sandinismo were at other times.
The emancipatory references are continental.
They occur in one country and become the focus
of all the others.
But the big
strategic problem lies in the fact that many
thinkers are of the view that the left should
focus on building a model of post-liberal
capitalism.
This idea blocks the
radicalization processes. It assumes that being
on the left is to be post-liberal, that to be on
the left is to slog away for an organized,
human, productive capitalism.
This idea has
undermined the left for several years now
because being left means fighting capitalism. To
me, this is ABC. To be socialist is to fight for
a communist world. At each stage that horizon
changes and the strategic parameters are
renewed.
But if the identity
of the left is altered, the result is
frustration.
Building the left
means taking up again the idea of the later
Chávez. A strong commitment to a socialist
project that is linked with the traditions of
Latin American Marxism and the Cuban Revolution.
It seems to me that this strategic line of march
has been distorted by strong illusions in the
convenience of replacing this horizon through
convergence, for example, with Pope Francis.
The assumption is
that with Chávez's death we need another
reference and it is thought that the substitute
can be Pope
Francis. I think this is a strategic
error.
I don't think the Social Doctrine of
the
Church is the guide that we should adopt in our
battle against capitalism.
Pope Francis is
being recycled with the intention now of
reconstructing the popular influence of a much
weakened Latin American church. And in my
opinion it takes great naiveté to suppose that
this reconstruction is going to favor a left
that is situated at the polar opposite of the
Vatican's project.
I think we ought to
shore up our own ideals at this key moment in
Latin American history.
