# About Patrick M. Wood

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_globalbanking02a.htm

About Patrick M. Wood
Patrick M. Wood founded The August Corporation on October 11, 1975. As a registered investment advisor with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company initially offered portfolio management services to investors in the United States. In 1978, Wood commenced publication of The Trilateral Observer (TO), to specifically track and document the activities of The Trilateral Commission, which was then seen to be the very core of elitism and multi-nationalism in the United States and abroad. TO was co-edited by Professor Antony Sutton, formerly a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution for War, Peace and Revolution at Stanford University.
Together, and after encouragement from many TO subscribers, Wood and Professor Sutton re-edited their material and produced two successive book volumes, Trilaterals Over Washington - Volume I and Trilaterals Over Washington - Volume II. Trilaterals Over Washington quickly became a best-seller and over the course of about two years, sold over 75,000 copies internationally. The books were very well received for excellent scholarship and original research, and even became a frequently-used textbook in political science classes at many colleges in U.S. universities. When President Ronald Reagan entered the Oval Office in early 1981, August's formal publishing activities ground to a halt. Conservative supporters figured that "Ronnie" would purge the Trilateral threat. Liberal supporters felt so defeated that they just gave up. In 1981, Wood founded World Research Library (WRL) which was granted 501c(3) status by the Internal Revenue Service. Research and library material was donated to WRL. In early 2005, Wood and his family moved from northern California to northern Idaho, to engage a simpler lifestyle and resume the original research and publishing activities to expose the super-elitists (like members of the Trilateral Commission), who continue to have a death-grip on the U.S. national sovereignty, foreign policy and many economic activities that supercede America's national borders. Hence, The August Review lives on the Internet as the official publication of World Research Library. If you are thinking that the global elite have been somehow pushed back and that America is now "OK", think again! The elite has made virtually unhindered progress (toward its own selfish and paternalistic goals) throughout the Reagan and and Clinton administrations; and now, George W. Bush continues the "tradition".
