# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - An
Easter Message

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1202.html

Speaking symbolically, the first step after the advent of the spirit of the resurrection will be similar to that in the Biblical story. Mary, that woman of sorrow, of experience and of aspiration, stands (as ever in the symbolism of the world) as the symbol of materialism. Humanity must say with her, "They have taken away my Lord and I know not where they have laid Him." But - she said it to the Lord Himself, not recognizing Him and realizing only her own deep need and despair. So must it be again. Humanity - materialistic, suffering, facing the future with despair and agony, but still aspiring - must go forth from the cave of matter, seeking the Christ and at first not recognizing Him or the work that He is attempting to do. The churches - materialistic, hide-bound and submerged in their theological concepts, seeking political power or possessions, emphasizing stone buildings and cathedrals whilst neglecting "the Temple of God, not made with hands, eternal in the heavens" - are occupied with the symbols and not with the reality. Now they must learn to recognize that the Lord is not with them and they too must go forth, as Mary did, and seek Him anew. If they will do so, they will surely find Him and again become His messengers.
The fact of the resurrection will be demonstrated during the next few centuries, and the Living Christ will walk among men and lead them onward towards the Mount of Ascension. The Pentecost will become truth. All men will come under the tide of inspiration from on high, and though they may speak with many tongues, they will all understand each other.
What I have to say to you, I intend to divide into two parts: [472]
The Work of the Christ Today The Coming Work of Reconstruction
These two convey the same basic ideas and thus complement each other. They proclaim the fact that all that truly concerns us is that which takes place upon Earth in line with the "blueprints" which guide the work of the Christ. (When I use the phrase "concerns us" I refer to man's physical, emotional and mental reactions). They proclaim the fact that every state of consciousness is anchored within humanity and that all are factual here and now, did men but know it. They proclaim also the truth that Christ has never left us for a distant heaven of nebulous outlines, but that He is ever within our reach. They proclaim also the fact that His interest, His arduous labors on our behalf and the activities of His working disciples, the Masters of the Wisdom and the Lords of Compassion, are with us, here and now. They proclaim that we are not alone, but that the Forces of Light and of Enlightenment are constantly working; that the strength and the wisdom of Those who know are being mobilized to aid mankind, and that nothing can now arrest or prevent the contact between that intelligent aspiring center, called humanity, and the inner spiritual group, the Hierarchy.
