# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Rider from the secret place...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1116.html

Perhaps with these thoughts in mind, this first stanza of the new Invocation will assume more importance, and you will then be able intelligently to invoke Those Who can inspire to right action, thus bringing succor, and call forth the One Who can save the situation through right leadership.
On what level of consciousness He will ride, it is not for us to say. It is possible that He will not appear upon the physical plane at all. Who can say? But the sound of His coming will be known and, speaking symbolically, the thunder of His horse's hoofs will be heard. The influence which He will wield and the energy which He will transmit from the Lords of Liberation will inevitably be potently felt, evoking an immediate human response. This will prove an incontrovertible fact. That His radiation will reach forth and surround His disciples, struggling in the conflict with evil, is also certain and sure. This will enable them to make the supreme effort which will win the battle for humanity. That He will come in "the air" is a well-known prophecy from the New Testament, thus enabling "every eye to see Him." These words have more meaning today than when written nearly two thousand years ago, for this world conflict [273] is outstandingly an aerial one. Students and those using this Invocation would be wise to bear this in mind or they may fail to see and recognize the Deliverer when He comes - a thing which has happened before.
We come now to the second stanza, with its direct references to human attitudes and recognitions. For decades, I, as one of the spiritual teachers, along with many others, have sought to awaken all to the fact of Light - light in the world, light coming from the plane of desire (called the astral plane quite often), light illumining science and human knowledge, the light of the soul, producing in due time the light in the head. You have been carefully taught that the right use of the mind in meditation and reflection will lead to the correct relation of soul and personality, and that when this has taken place, the light of the soul ignites or fosters the light in the head and the man reaches the stage of illumination. The reference in this second stanza is to the more extended idea of the relation of humanity (the kingdom of men) to the spiritual Hierarchy (the kingdom of God). When these two are more closely aligned and related, light will break out among the sons of men as a whole, just as light breaks out in the individual aspirant. This much-to-be-desired event can be brought about by the spiritually minded people in the world, by the men and women of goodwill, and by the world disciples, standing with "massed intent." This means with a uniform, united focus - a thing as yet rarely seen and much needed at this time. So many people are animated by wishful thinking, by hoping and by prayer; so few are motivated by intention. Intention here is that unbreakable, immovable determination that a situation shall be handled, that what is needed in order to release mankind assuredly must appear, for such is the mental intention of the focused minds of many. I would ask you to give much thought to these words "massed intent" and to differentiate with care between intention and desire. When humanity has fulfiled the conditions through a focused mental demand, based on correctly formulated [274] mass intent, then will come the affirmation from the spiritual Forces.
