# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Preparation for World Goodwill

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1058.html

2. Study and apprehend clearly the issues which lie behind this conflict, so that there is no inner wavering as to the rightness of the side on which your interests lie - the side of the Forces of Light. Parallel this with an understanding appreciation of the problem of those who are bewildered by the emphasis and the dynamic activities of those through whom the Forces of materialism are working. At the same time, also, kill out all hateful criticism in your minds.
3. Endeavor to use the following formula or mantram every day. It is a modernized and mystically worded version [142] of the one which was used widely in Atlantean days during the period of the ancient conflict of which the present is an effect. For many of you this mantram will be in the nature of a recovery of an old and well-known form of words:
"The sons of men are one and I am one with them. I seek to love not hate: I seek to serve and not exact due service. I seek to heal, not hurt.
"Let pain bring due reward of light and love. Let the soul control the outer form and life and all events, and bring to light the love which underlies the happenings of the time. Let vision come and insight; let the future stand revealed. Let inner union demonstrate and outer cleavages be gone. Let love prevail. Let all men love."
These words may seem inadequate, but said with power and an understanding of their significance and with the potency of the mind and heart behind them, they can prove unbelievably potent in the life of the one who says them. They will produce also an effect in his environment, and the accumulated effects in the world, as you spread the knowledge of the formula, will be great and effective. It will change attitudes, enlighten the vision and lead the aspirant to fuller service and to a wider cooperation based upon sacrifice. My brothers, you cannot evade the sacrifice in the long run, even if you have evaded it until now.
4. Then apply yourselves to the spreading of the use of the Great Invocation and help to carry forward the plan for distribution. The Great Invocation, as you will see in the next article which I am writing for your information, is a potent solar instrument designed to bring about changes and needed readjustments. It is so powerful that when it was suggested for general use in the world of men some opposition was evoked among the members of the Hierarchy because They feared its potent effects upon the unready, and undeveloped people. Its use has, however, been justified [143] and it is desired that its usefulness should be very greatly increased and its use far more widely spread.
5. I would have you in your own way prepare for a major spiritual effort which is to take place when this conflict has worn itself out and some measure of peace and calm has come about. Each of you has your own sphere of influence and of contacts and each of you is in touch with similarly minded or enquiring people, with groups and churches, clubs, organizations and societies which are pledged to some form of effort towards human betterment, of goodwill effort, and of endeavor of some kind towards human welfare. Now is the time for much work to be done with the leaders and senior workers in such groups and with people who can be prepared by each of you for active effort when the right time comes. To this task I call each of you. Later you can swing these people into active goodwill work and to effort which will tend to world understanding and fusion. You can with them bring about the healing of the wounds of humanity which will be greatly needed and for which you can now prepare. You can get in touch with such people, keep records of names and addresses and capacity to serve and help, establish group contacts and so systematize your work that when the call goes out (as it did in 1936) there will be found available to the organizers a wealth of ready contacts and of interested and prepared people who will then work intelligently to establish the new order.
6. The instructions in my earlier pamphlets remain as before and should be carefully followed in preparation for a campaign at the close of hostilities. Mailing lists can be gradually brought alive by judicious correspondence and new lists can be compiled; the Great Invocation can be increasingly used if the method outlined by me is studied and rightly organized by each of you, and so the goodwill already present in the world can be brought to a point of dynamic livingness, ready for later use. But, my brothers, nothing can be done unless you do it. [144]
