# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Fiat of the Lord go forth...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1117.html

The ending of the present evil situation is, therefore, a cooperative measure; and here, in this connection, we have the appearance of the Lord of Civilization Who voices and engineers upon the physical plane the fiat of the Lord of Liberation and of the Rider from the secret place. He aids and makes possible, owing to His control, the precipitating upon the Earth and in the arena of combat, of the power generated by the Lords of Liberation, expressed by the coming One and focused through Him as the hierarchical Representative in Europe. The work of the Master R. has always been recognized as of a peculiar nature and as concerned with the problems of civilization, just as the work of the Christ, the Master of all the Masters, is concerned with the spiritual development of humanity, and the work of the Manu is occupied with the science of divine government, with politics and law. Thus the incoming focused energy, called forth in response to right invocation, is stepped down still nearer to humanity, and the masses can then respond to the new impulses. You have, therefore:
On the united work of these Three, if humanity can succeed in calling Them forth, will come the alignment and the correct relation of three great spiritual centers of the planet, a thing which has never occurred before. Then: [275]
Thus Shamballa, the Hierarchy and Humanity will stand consciously related and dynamically in touch with each other. The Will of God, the Love of God and the Intelligence of God will thus fuse and blend on Earth and in relation to human problems. Conditions will consequently be brought about and energies will be set in motion which will end the rule of evil and bring war to an end through the victory of the Forces of Light, recognized and aided by Humanity.
This synthesis of the three energies, evoked through invocation and the response of certain divine Potencies, is esoterically given the name of "the saving Force." Of its exact nature and intended effects we know practically nothing. It has never before appeared in action on the physical plane, though it has been for some time active upon the mental plane. Though it is a blend of the energies of the three centers referred to above, it is primarily the energy of the divine Will, which will be its outstanding characteristic. One hint here I will give. Just as the externalization of the materialistic lodge of seven men, to which I made reference above, has made its appearance and must be dealt with prior to the future externalization of the lodge of spiritual Lives (the appearance of the kingdom of God on Earth) which we call the planetary Hierarchy, so the will-to-power of the forces of aggression has appeared on Earth and sought to gain control over humanity. Note that aim. This will-to-power can only be dissipated when the highest aspect of the same energy is given free rein among the sons of men. The divine [276] and spiritual Will, carried on the impulse of selfless love, can and must be evoked for the destruction of the selfish and wicked will-to-power, rampant now on Earth under the direction of the focused seven in Germany.
