# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - The
Work of the Seed Groups

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1022.html

As I earlier said, the processes of education, of law and of government are so closely allied and so definitely related that if ever the work of this fifth group reaches a stage where it is indeed a germ of a new age organism (and many such groups will necessarily appear in the different countries of the world), it will be found that they will act as a clearing house or a linking body between the educators of the time, those whose task it is to enforce the law, and the statesmen who are chosen by the educated masses to formulate the laws whereby they should be governed. It will be apparent, therefore, along what three lines of study and work the members of this fifth group will proceed. These I will not further elaborate in this place.
In view of the steady progress towards religious unity which has proceeded apace during the past 150 years, the work of the sixth group (religion in the new age), as is also the case with the first group (telepathic communication) promises rapid results. This is, however, necessarily dependent upon the "skill in action" and the willingness of the group members and allied groups to proceed with slowness and tact.
The moment any idea enters the religious field, it gains immediate momentum from the fact that the outstanding [55] characteristic of the human consciousness is the sense of the Innermost or the Real, a recognition of subjective destiny, and an innate knowledge of and reaching out to the Unknown God. Therefore, any truth or presentation of truth or method which has in it the possibility of producing a nearer approach to divinity or a more rapid understanding of the "deeper Being" evokes an immediate response and reaction. There is consequently much need for caution and considered action.
I have already indicated to you the form that the religion of the new age will take (See The Reappearance of the Christ). It will be built around the periods of the Full Moon, wherein certain great Approaches will be made to the world of reality, also around two periods of massed Approaches to be made at the time of the major eclipse of the moon and of the sun during the year. The two major Full Moon Approaches will be those of the Wesak Full Moon and the Full Moon of June - one hitherto consecrated to the Buddha Who embodied the wisdom of God, and the other to the Bodhisattva (known to Christians as the Christ) Who embodied the love of God.
The platform of the new world religion will have in it three major presentations of truth, or three major doctrines, if such an undesirable word can be permitted. It is with the elaboration of these three points of view, or evocations of truth, that the work of the sixth group of disciples will be concerned. They are:
More than this I will not here indicate as I seek to touch briefly upon the remaining three groups. I will, however, point out that we shall elaborate somewhat the Technique of the Presence of God, approaching it from a new angle, that of the Group, and also upon the Technique of Light. Two lesser Techniques I have at times called to your attention and with these we will later deal, for they are in the nature of approaches to the other two - the Technique of Indifference and the Technique of Service (See Glamor: A World Problem). As we study the divine Approaches, we shall see that they involve two parties or two groups - those found on the objective and those on the subjective side of life.
