# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Cycle of Conferences

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1192.html

All true movements conditioning long cycles in world affairs have at their center a triangle through which energy can flow and certain definite purposes can be worked out. Little is understood, as yet, anent the nature of the task to be done or the type of men who work in first ray groups and Ashrams, and in Whose hands the political destiny of man rests at any one time. The whole subject of discipleship has been distorted by theological definitions, based upon sweetness of character, which often works singularly for ineffectiveness. The long cycle of ecclesiastical rule has biased human thinking so that the nature of spiritual strength and effectiveness is interpreted in terms of religion and in the terminology of churchianity (I did not say, of Christianity), or in the phraseology of a marked pacifism or a dominating, religious, temporal control. The long rule of the various churches is over. This should be grasped. They have done their work - in the early stages very good work, in the middle stages a necessary consolidating work, and in the modern stage a crystallizing and reactionary work. The rule of the churches is over, but not the precepts of Christianity or the example of the Christ. He is, however, responsible for a newer and more effective presentation of the coming world religion, and for that the churches should prepare, if they have enough illumination to recognize their need and His effort to meet that need.
Today a balance must be reached, and this will take place through the medium of an enlightened statesmanship and through a political activity which will be based increasingly upon the good of the whole of humanity, and not upon benefiting any one nation in particular. This balance will not be expressed in religious terms and in so-called spiritual terminology. It will express itself through group work, through conferences, through Leagues of Nations, [449] organized parties and legislation. All of this will be the result of an intensive activity of the Masters and of Their disciples upon the first Ray of Will or Power. The quality of their work will be to express the will-to-good; they see the world in large terms. To the uninitiated, they may at times seem isolated in their actions and over-powerful in the decisions which they reach and which they then proclaim to the world - much to the irritation of the little-minded and of those who interpret freedom in terms of their individual, unenlightened point of view. They are, however, working under spiritual direction as much as any religious leader and this will increasingly be recognized. History will justify their actions, because they will have given a trend to world affairs and to human thinking which will work out in a clearer perception of necessity. What they do will evoke discussion and oft-times disagreement, as have the decisions of the Yalta triangle of workers. But they are so constituted that they do not resent this; they know that the discussion evoked and the criticisms raised will reveal the inherent smallness and separative instincts of their opponents, and - at the same time - will evoke the banding together of those who see behind the apparently high-handed initial activity an effort to precipitate with clarity the issues with which humanity is faced. Thus humanity can be brought to understanding. These are the things which the triangle at Yalta attempted to do. These they may not have consciously recognized as the work asked of them on account of their discipleship, but they automatically worked this way because they correctly sensed human need. They were and are handicapped by the fact of their own humanity, which makes them liable to make mistakes, but they are far more handicapped by the facts of human selfishness and national greed and by the general low level of human attainment - viewing humanity as one whole.
Having made the issues clear, as they see them, having evoked the enthusiasm of the men of goodwill in the world, and the violent criticism of those who think in terms of partisanship, nationalism, and prejudice, the experiment of [450] the conference in Mexico City was undertaken with success. It was realized that there was an ascertainable measure of hemispheric unity upon which statesmen could count, and thus a foundation could be created for the far more difficult international conference to be held in San Francisco at the time of the Wesak, the Full Moon of the Buddha. Not for nothing is this conference being held during the five days of the Wesak Full Moon. It will be a time of supreme difficulty, in which the Forces of Light will face what I call "the forces of selfishness and separativeness."
