# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Fiat of the Lord go forth...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1120.html

One point you need to grasp more clearly, and it is both an encouragement and a point difficult of belief. If the sons of men who are cooperating with the Forces of Light at this time stand with steadfastness, and if the "massed intent" of the men of goodwill is brought down from the mental plane (where most goodwill, desire, prayer and invocation becomes "frozen") and is carried away from its easy focus in the wish life of the aspirant, goodwill becomes active in expression and in tangible deed upon the physical plane, so that the work done through the means of invocation and prayer, plus the needed fighting for the right, is done by those who can truly coordinate and integrate on all three levels and thus function as a whole. This will mean the finish of the dominance of matter for all time. Such a desirable [281] condition may come very slowly, from the standpoint of man's myopic vision, and may even not become apparent in its full significance to you in this life; nevertheless the victory will have been gained. Matter and materialistic interests will no longer rule the coming generation as they have ruled the last two. When the forces of aggression, of greed and cruelty are driven back, it will mean the conquest of selfish desire by unselfish love and sacrifice. This is the reward of those with whom we work, if reward is desired. This achieved situation will then bring into closer relation humanity and the spiritual Hierarchy; they will be en rapport in a manner new in history. The defeat of the oppressing nations and the liberation of the oppressed will be only the outer and visible sign of an inner and spiritual event - one for which all enlightened people are working. It will - after a period of adjustment, which will necessarily bring its own peculiar difficulties - usher in the new world, with all that is entailed in that phrase.
I have placed before you the possibility. I would reiterate, as I have in the past, that it is humanity which determines its own fate. Men have transcended the child stage and are now adult, though not mature. Maturity is achieved through self-engendered experience and decision, and for some time we who seek to guide have confined our efforts to reaching the intelligent people, impressing the spiritually minded, and in stimulating humanity to right action without encroaching upon man's growing expression of free will. So the outcome is unpredictable, though we may see a certain measure of inevitability in future happenings. But man is free to choose the way that he shall go, and much of the responsibility for his choices rests upon the shoulders of the more instructed of the human family and upon those who have achieved some measure of vision.
With these thoughts upon the new Invocation I would leave you to work out these ideas in the recesses of your reflective consciousness. I would ask you to use the Invocation frequently, with dynamic intent and true understanding, [282] and thus cooperate - by its use, by your love of humanity, and by your activity on the side of the Forces of Light - with those on the outer and inner planes who are seeking to drive aggression back to the place from whence it came, and to end the rule of hate and fear. [285]
