# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - Seed
Groups in the New Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1014.html

It was the realization of the need for a bridging group which would be neither entirely negative nor entirely positive which prompted some of the Masters (Who are connected with the Hierarchy) to form the New Group of World Servers. These people belong to neither group and yet they can function more or less in relation to both. This, as you well know, has been done with quite a measure of success and this large group now exists and is magnetic enough to draw forth response from the mass of world aspirants and servers (who represent the current civilization and current culture) and at the same time to absorb and thus transmit knowledge, wisdom, force and light from the Planetary Hierarchy.
It has now been deemed possible to form groups within the new group of world servers whose members can begin to prepare themselves to express both the phenomenal and the impulsive, the negative and the positive, the material and the spiritual with such a measure of success that, in due time, there can exist on earth a replica of the Hierarchy, its methods and techniques of work. Such is the purpose of the groups which I have formed, and of other groups throughout the world who - in a different way and form, and employing perchance a different phraseology - yet are motivated and actuated as are the seed groups for which I have made myself responsible.
The three reasons for their importance might therefore be stated as follows:
Let me endeavor to indicate to you in what manner these groups can measure up to the threefold demand or opportunity mentioned above.
You will note that the first opportunity concerns the spirit aspect or the vital impulsive life aspect of divinity; that the second concerns the soul aspect or the subjective consciousness aspect of divinity; whilst the third concerns the body aspect or the physical expression, through consciousness, of the divine life. The first three groups which I have formed are intended to be small reflections of these three aspects from the angle of modern need and the meeting of that need. [36]
I have indicated somewhat the intended work of the first group from the angle of telepathic interplay (Telepathy and the Etheric Vehicle). The method of communication between the Members of the Hierarchy has to be externalized, eventually, upon earth and this is one of the tasks of the group. It might be of service to you if I outlined a little more clearly what is the purpose of the new seed groups, in terms of the new age civilization and culture so that the practical results might be visioned with clarity and some new ideals emerge as to the quality of the coming new world order.
The second group, the trained observers, will inaugurate the era of light and of a free control of the astral plane, with its quality of freedom from illusion and glamor. This freedom will be brought about when "right observation" takes the place of the disturbed vision of the present, and glamor will be dissipated through the "right direction" of the light of the soul throughout the plane of illusion. The Aquarian Age will be predominantly the age of synthesis and light.
