# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Historical Background

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1078.html

Throughout the Middle Ages, the rule of powerful monarchs, the spread of empires and the march of national conquerors were outstanding characteristics. A relatively small number of people were involved. The Church of the time had immense power in all European countries; it controlled the education of the people, but laid no foundation for right political thought. The history of the past is the history of many forms of government. Races and nations have come and gone. Political regimes and religious forms have played their part, have persisted or disappeared. The sorry history of humanity has been one of kings and potentates, rulers and warriors, presidents and dictators - rising into power at the expense of their own or other nations. Conquerors come and go - Akbar, Genghis Khan, the Pharaohs, Alexander the Great, Caesar, Charlemagne, William the Conqueror, Napoleon, Hitler and Mussolini. These have all upset the rhythm [184] of their times and have come to power through aggression and slaughter. As the nations grew more closely interrelated, their influence and their field of expression increased. The growing means of communication brought this about; Great Britain knew nothing of the movements of Alexander; the peoples of America knew naught about Genghis Khan; but the sound of the marching armies of Napoleon was heard over a far wider area, and the triumphs of Hitler - diplomatic and military - are known throughout the world.
The totalitarian powers have turned the world into one armed camp - for offence or defence. Motivating all these conquerors was lust for gold, lust for land, lust for power, lust for personal triumph. The modern dictators are no exception. They bring nothing new.
