# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Preparation for World Goodwill

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1056.html

The causes of the present war are ancient. This historical sequence of the predisposing factors can be clearly traced in the exoteric records of all nations as well as in the esoteric records of the Hierarchy. The inherent human [138] qualities which have led to the development of the present war are well known. All who are conscious of and observers of the war within their own natures, between personality selfishness and the selflessness of the soul, are aware of the implications and the correspondences. Where then lies the solution? What must be done to arrest the fires of hate and of aggression, of revenge and of fear? What also must be done to prepare for that time when the rebuilding of the world of men and the inauguration of the new and better civilization arrives? With this we might now briefly deal.
As regards active participation in the work to be done in preparing the world for the expression of goodwill, there is little to be done of an active exoteric nature at this time; it is necessary to wait with patience and to see what is going to happen and along what lines the activity of the nations will run. But there is very much to be done of an esoteric and a preparatory nature and it is this which I seek to impress upon your minds.
Up to date and in spite of appearances, the Forces of Light are victorious and are definitely holding things steady. It is for this reason that nothing has yet quenched the spirit of goodwill and of sympathetic understanding which exists among the peoples of all nations, not excluding Germany; this has been the outstanding significant characteristic of the present conflict. There is little hate or vindictiveness to be found, and this fact constitutes the difference between this war and the last, in 1914. It indicates a triumph for the Forces of Light and in it lies the hope of the future. It is here, however, that the time factor must be considered, for a prolonged war may cause a change in this desirable attitude, and much drastic experience may produce deep psychological and unavoidable changes in human thought and action. This must be consciously offset. It has not yet occurred but it could happen and if it does much pain, terror, fearful anticipation, suffering and the agony entailed by the sight of suffering might eventually turn this goodwill into a [139] dynamic spirit of hate and revenge unless it is definitely and consciously offset. Groups who are adhering to the principles of the Forces of Light, who are bending every effort to end the spirit of aggression and to rid the world of the focal points for material influence and power, must yet carry forward the task of binding men and women of every nation together in a spirit of loving understanding; they must interpret nation to nation in terms of brotherhood and of the new order.
This is no easy thing to do at this time. The astral or emotional bodies of human beings (which constitute the astral body of humanity as a whole) are today in a state of chaos, and are swept by ancient desires, ancient and deep seated selfish attitudes and by ancient hatreds. The task is also complicated by the activity of the mental processes of man which is characterized by pronounced and developed illusions, by separative attitudes and by specious arguments. But there are, at the same time, enough people in the world who are responsive to the spirit of goodwill, of tolerant understanding, and animated by a desire for permanent right human relations.
