# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
World Crisis Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1099.html

June 30, 1940
Events and situations change with such rapidity at this time, as humanity takes action or refrains from action (which latter course is just as determining for good or evil as is the former), that I feel again the need of writing on the world crisis, as I did last autumn, thus carrying forward my theme. I write as one who is working on the inner side today, sensing and seeing what is hidden from many of you. The exoteric outer history of events is known to all of you, and with its detail I need not deal. The action taken by the combatant nations, or withheld by the neutral nations, is also registered in your consciousness. The implications of such activity can only be truly known and appreciated by those people who today think in terms of humanity as a whole, [230] and not in terms of a particular nation, such as the good of Germany or the destiny of America. Few disciples there are at this time who can thus think synthetically or who see the vision as a whole, precipitating as that which will condition eventually the entire human family. Many there are who are awakening to the need so to do and who are finding, in their processes of readjustment, many bewildering problems. For these sincere but bewildered people, I write. I find that there is little that I can say to the provincially minded or to those with the purely parochial point of view. Their limitations of vision lie within themselves and only dire events and strenuous emergency will enable them finally to transcend the petty quibbling and quality of their lower mind, with its concrete tendency to hark back to the past and its fear to venture with faith into the future.
I have been interested in the response to my earlier article, written in April, 1940. The majority of those whom I sought to reach and with whom I have communicated for many years accepted my premises without much questioning but refrained from positive action or the use of any influence. A few resented the implications of the existent divisions between the Forces of Light (focused through the allied nations) and the Forces of Aggression (focused through Germany). They embody a true, but erroneously interpreted, idea of human unity. They fail to understand that - as the New Age is ushered in - there must inevitably come a judgment day (speaking symbolically) and the emergence of a clear line of demarcation between that which is new and that which is of the old age; there must appear the distinction between exoteric happenings and esoteric attitudes and between those who see a new world order, developed and brought to functioning activity by the Forces of Light, through cooperation, coordination and understanding, and a world order which will be imposed by terror, through dictatorial government, by the suppression of liberty of conscience, and by the enthronement of a race whose values are, at this time, anti-spiritual and anti-social. This judgment day is now upon humanity, and the final decision will be [231] arrived at by those whose normal inclinations and natural tendencies are on the side of law and order, and whose will-to-good is directed towards right human relations and true human welfare. These enlightened people will back their judgment with a focused will to bring in the era wherein these values will dominate, and they are also willing to take the necessary measures to make these values possible.
I would like to deal openly and frankly with the problems with which you are being confronted when you face the world as it is today and the world as it may be tomorrow - a world whose fate is still unsettled. I would present possibilities with a definite application to the reactions of such empires as those of Great Britain, France and Holland, and with indication as to how the United States of America should be expected to respond. I write as one who represents the Hierarchy, as a member of a certain standing in its ranks, and as one also who works day and night for the success of those nations in the human family who, with their backs to a wall of misunderstanding, vilification and dislike, are strenuously opposing Germany and her satellite, Italy. I refer to that group of Allies who today stand with their purpose focused in Great Britain, driven there by the trend of events. I do this because the basic hope of right human relations, of true and lasting peace, of liberty of conscience and of free and happy homes rests upon their triumphing; they are, at this time, the point of positive attack by the Forces of Evil. It is not possible for us as yet to reach the soul of the German people within that unhappy land, so complete is the glamor under which they are laboring. The day will come when again they will be reached, and this responsibility rests upon those Germans who remain free from glamor in other lands; it will come when the forces acting through the medium of a band of evil-intentioned men have been removed. With their disappearance will come the dissipation of the clouds of evil propaganda, lying information and distorted imputations and interpretations with which the masses of people, even in neutral lands, have been deluged. [232]
