# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Lack of Money for the Work of Preparation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1270.html

Yet all the time, the one humanity - no matter what the place of residence, what the color of the skin, or what the religious beliefs - is clamoring for peace, justice and a sense of security. All this, the right use of money and a realization on the part of many of their financial responsibility (a responsibility based on the spiritual values) would rapidly give them. With the exception of a few great farsighted philanthropists, and of a mere handful of enlightened statesmen, churchmen and educators, this sense of financial responsibility is to be found nowhere.
The time has now come when money must be revalued and its usefulness channeled into new directions. The voice [627] of the people must prevail, but it must be a people educated in the true values, in the significances of a right culture, and in the need for right human relations. It is therefore essentially a question of right education and correct training in world citizenship - a thing that has not yet been undertaken. Who can give this training? Russia would gladly train the world in the ideals of communism, and would gather all the money in the world into the coffers of the proletariat, eventually producing the greatest capitalistic system the World has ever seen. Great Britain would gladly train the world in the British concepts of justice and fair play and world trade, and would do it more cleverly than any other nation because of vast experience. The United States would also gladly undertake to force the American brand of democracy upon the world, using her vast capital and resources in so doing, and gathering into her banks the financial results of her widespread financial dealings, preserving them safely by the threat of the atomic bomb and the shaking of the mailed fist over the rest of the world. France will keep Europe in a state of unrest as she seeks to regain her lost prestige and garner all she can from the victory of the other allied nations. Thus, my brother, the story goes - each nation fighting for itself and rating each other in terms of resources and finance. In the meantime, humanity starves, remains uneducated, is brought up on false values and the wrong use of money; until these things are being righted, the return of the Christ is not possible.
In the face of this disturbing financial situation, what is the answer to the problem? There are men and women to be found in every land, every government, every church and religion, and every educational foundation who have the answer. What hope is there for them and for the work with which they have been entrusted? How can the people of the world, the men of goodwill and of spiritual vision help? Is there anything they can do to change the thinking of the world in regard to money, and to deflect it into channels where it will be rightly used? The answer lies within these people themselves. [628]
There are two groups who can do much: those already using the financial resources of the world, if they will catch the new vision and also see the handwriting on the wall which is bringing the old order down in destruction; and secondly, the mass of the good, kindly people in all classes and spheres of influence.
The power of the little man and of the unimportant citizen is not yet truly grasped, yet there is a vast opportunity before them if they have the courage and the patience to do the needed work.
These men and women of goodwill and spiritual inclination must reject the thought of their relative uselessness, insignificance and futility, and realize that now (in the critical and crucial moment that has come) they can work potently. The Forces of Evil are defeated, though not yet "sealed" behind the door where humanity can put them and which the New Testament foretold would happen. The world is in the balance again. Evil is seeking every avenue available for a new approach but - and this I say with confidence and insistence - the little people of the world, enlightened and selfless in their viewpoint, exist in sufficient numbers to make their power felt - if they will. There are millions of spiritually-minded men and women in every country who, when they come to the point of approaching in mass formation this question of money, can permanently rechannel it. There are writers and thinkers in all lands who can add their powerful help, and who will if correctly approached. There are esoteric students and devoted church people to whom appeal can be made for aid in preparing the way for the return of the Christ, particularly if the aid required is the expenditure of money and time for the establishing of right human relations and the growth and spread of goodwill.
