# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - An Analysis of Certain
Countries - Germany

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1035.html

Germany is therefore controlled by the following energies and forces, and a study of the consequent interrelations should prove interesting to the detached and open-minded student. [78]
Everything tends to show that the German people, not being an integrated race, are very largely victims and should be just as easily guided into right ways as they have been, at present, guided into their present activities. They did, however, provide a good medium through which the ancient Atlantean conflict could be precipitated and brought to the surface, and the ancient feud between materialism and the Forces of Light be finally resolved for this particular world cycle. Germany is mediumistic, as was its dictator, as I have earlier indicated; it is the Aries-Leo influences which produced the dictator. The Piscean personality of Germany (which is the sign governing mediumship) accounts for the apparently fluid grasp of essentials and the inability of its people and ruling government to stand by pledges. The influence of the sixth ray, coming via Mars, martially applied, and the lack of true spiritual love as it is diverted into sentimental personality devotions, account temporarily for the mass negligence to assert itself on behalf of the oppressed and in the interests of the higher principles. The need for this assertion is realized by many in Germany but the negative Piscean personality attitude provides a great obstacle and accounts for what has puzzled all who know and love the German people. At present, the [80] influence of Mars, of Leo and of Pisces in their lower octave or connotations, are dominant. That which can offset this unhappy situation is the influence of Scorpio, the sign of discipleship and one of the death signs in the zodiac.
The struggle for the soul of the people and its emergence into control is really taking place today in Berlin and upon the decision of this conflict much depends. France whose soul is governed by Pisces, the world Savior, can do much to release the Piscean personality of Germany. Here lies the crux of the world problem. Great Britain, with her soul ray ruled by Gemini (which understands both the soul nature and the personality nature), can do much to help.
I cannot elaborate this further beyond pointing out that both for nations and individuals the first great crisis in Scorpio upon the path of discipleship is determining in its effect upon the future.
