# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Preparation for World Goodwill

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1057.html

It involves, however, an emphasizing of the values to which I have referred earlier in this article. This is humanity's [140] joint responsibility because of humanity's general mistakes, and the ancient wrong attitudes and controls. It involves, consequently, a stepping down from the position of critics and assigners of responsibility to that of a joint shouldering of the stupendous task of changing present conditions and of instituting those reversals of policy which will make a united world order possible and beautiful. This is no easy task. It is one which calls all men and women of goodwill in the world today and challenges them to prepare whilst the conflict is on for what can be done when it is over.
I have given much in the past which can provide a platform of objectives and of methods. Nothing that I have outlined is now abrogated; only fulfilment is postponed. For seven critical years, it lay in the hands of the spiritually minded men of the world, in the hands of the Churches in all lands and of the men of goodwill and of the world aspirants so to work that the present conflict could have been avoided. But the spirit of Christ was lost in clerical organization; emphasis has been laid upon technical theology; the spirit of goodwill was not expressed dynamically and practically, but theoretically and negatively; the aspirants of the world had no true sense of values but were content to give a little time to the spiritual life and to other people, but much time was lost in individual, personal aims. A spirit of inertia settled down upon the better inclined and upon the more understanding people; nothing that we could do served to arouse them to powerful action or to sacrifice personal temporary values to the lasting and universal values. The individual remained more important to himself than did the good of the whole.
Be not over-distressed, my brothers. You are not alone in this but part of a vast number, if that is to you any real satisfaction.
But a renewed opportunity lies in front of you and it is of a practical nature, falling into definite spheres of work and of planned activity. You are asked, first of all, to [141] prepare for the great opportunity which will come at the close of this conflict, and
Secondly, to keep up a steady process of right thought, right interpretation of current events and a right preparation whilst the war lasts, so that any weakening of the gained spirit of goodwill can be immediately offset, and so that understanding can grow in potency and not suffer obscuration. In order to bring this about, the following activities are suggested beginning with those which concern the individual worker.
