# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Hierarchical Preparation at the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1233.html

The Christ, therefore, has to add to all the many objectives which occupy His attention still another - the effort to avert a final war. This incipient war is contrary to the will-to-good of the Lord of the World and any world plan; it can be averted by goodwill. This is the most important statement in this message, as far as humanity is concerned.
Great and stirring events are imminent, and they will take place when the effect of the new Invocation is more pronounced and its use more general. This is primarily the responsibility of those who are affiliated with the three movements which demonstrate the part I have sought to take in the world preparation. These are: The Arcane School, and this refers primarily to the books for which I am responsible; the Triangles, which constitutes a deeply esoteric mode of working, yet one of extreme simplicity; and the Goodwill movement, which has in it a factor of major importance in that this movement (embracing already as it does many, many thousands) seeks to promote right human relations with its acute and immediate appeal to the masses; it is this that the masses want essentially, and is oft what lies behind the things which they do and the plans which they make, so often ignorantly and disastrously.
You will note that my outstanding theme is that of world planning; this is the main preoccupation of the Hierarchy. This planning falls into two categories, and for these the Christ is responsible. These are:
Since 1931 I have hinted at much of this, and my activities (carried forward with these things in view) have followed the sequence outlined below:
1. I attempted to reach certain people in order to see how far an ashram could function in external form on earth. It has proved only a partial success and the results of my experiment have been given in the book, Discipleship in the New Age. The effects of the experiment upon the individuals involved have not proved encouraging; the effect upon the esotericists and aspirants of the world has been most successful and has greatly enhanced the sense of reality, so essential to the recognition of the hitherto unseen Hierarchy.
2. I published books which gave the new esoteric teaching, founded on the past, of service today, and indicative of the future. In those books I isolated for the new generation of esoteric students the "truths" which were true, extracting them from the mass of imaginative thinking and consequent formulation of thought-forms which esotericists (since the time of H.P.B.) have so consistently created and presented to the enquiring public as truths. I indicated the new truths which were of significance for the future and for which the truths of the past were a needed foundation, and gave enough in outline and in "seed" concepts to show the lines along which the new world religion, the new political regimes and the new social order could be set up. I gave you the blueprints. I enunciated these as principles, leaving men free - as must ever be the case - to work out the details according to their contributing civilizations and their peculiar national cultures, which should unitedly create a beautiful whole and not provide barriers of separativeness as is today the case. I finally brought to the attention of the public the idea that the externalization of the Hierarchy was a major hierarchical project, for which due preparation would have to be made.
