# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1063.html

The primary result of the correct use of the Great Invocation (as far as humanity is concerned) is acceleration. As I have also earlier pointed out, such an acceleration carries with it its own risks, and consequently we have the appearance of the truly terrific problems and the dire happenings which have for many years overtaken the aspirants and the disciples in the world. They are by this process learning the work of world salvage and becoming gradually fitted for the post of world savior and to be absorbers of evil karma. You might here quite correctly point out that all the world is now suffering and that the past twenty-five years have been those of a general and most unhappy world karma. Wherein then lies the distinction between the pain and suffering of the world in general and that of aspirants and disciples in particular? I would reply that aspirants and disciples are conscious of this karma and its results in all three vehicles simultaneously - in the mind as well as in the emotional body with resultant physical reactions. This produces an intensification, retrospection and anticipation which the larger group does not register, involving as it does the entire personality. To this, in the case of the disciple in particular, must be added sensitivity and the ability to tune in and to absorb world pain, world reactions, and world conditions, thereby greatly increasing that which they may have individually to bear. The capacity to shoulder and register group pain as well as to bear his own personal karma greatly aggravates the disciple's task.
When therefore, I call the world aspirants and disciples to the use of the Great Invocation, I call them also to the [153] "fellowship of Christ's sufferings"; this is ever preliminary to the resurrection or to the release of the human consciousness into higher realms of spiritual awareness. The Forces which are contacted by the use of this Great Invocation, in conjunction with trained hierarchical effort, are thereby attracted or magnetically impelled to respond and then potent energies can be sent direct to the waiting planetary center, Humanity. Two effects of an immediate nature are consequently induced over a specific period of time:
