# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1064.html

We know, O Lord of Life and Love, about the need; Touch our hearts anew with love, that we too may love and give.
It is this thought of the free circulation of energy between the three world centers which motivates this mantric sentence. A study of this will show you how the implication and significance of apparently simple words may be far deeper and far more wide-reaching in effect than you have been able to conceive. A recognition of this and a creative impassioned use of the imagination may serve to add greater potency to your thought and to your personal will-to-good as you use the Great Invocation and its subsidiary mantram. The keynote of the first aspect is Sacrifice, and of the second, Love. The words therefore "that we too may love and give" can produce a contact between the two.
A clue also to the significance of pain and of suffering will gradually emerge in the world consciousness as study is made of the above statements. Suffering is the most effective and most rapid way of evoking world understanding and of burning away the barriers which human beings have set up to the expression of the will-to-good. One of the most beneficent results of the inflow of the Shamballa force through [155] the focused demand of the aspirants and world disciples will be the intelligent recognition of the uses of pain and suffering. It is this truth - distorted and selfishly misapplied and interpreted - which has led certain types of people and certain types of governing bodies among the nations to take the position that the greater the suffering inflicted (as, for instance, in war time) and the greater the process of terrorism, the quicker the end which is desirable and right; they hold often that the more dire the effects of planned conditions, the more rapidly will the correct consummation be achieved. It is not, however, the duty or right of man to turn first ray force to selfish ends or material objectives; responsibility cannot be veiled behind specious and distorted half truths and evil cannot be done in order that good may come. What is applied by the Lord of the World in Shamballa under the motivation of love, wisdom and selflessness with a sure touch and a judgment as to times and seasons cannot be so used by those motivated by personality objectives, either on an individual or a personality scale (for nations as well as individuals have personalities). Ponder on this and seek enlightenment from the soul.
3. When the Great Invocation is thus rightly used and the world centers are consequently consciously interrelated, then certain extra-planetary Energies can be called in by the Ruler of Shamballa to aid in the readjustments required for the New Age and its coming civilization. These Forces - spiritual and potent in nature - exist in two categories: solar Forces which are interplanetary and cosmic Forces which enter into our solar system via Jupiter as the transmitter of divine energies from Virgo and Aquarius which Jupiter esoterically governs. Virgo is esoterically the mother of the Christ child and is, therefore, the emanator of energies which nourish and aid the growth of the Christ consciousness; Aquarius is the coming expression of the group consciousness which is the first and immediate revelation of the ever present Christ consciousness on a large scale in humanity. Jupiter also, exoterically and from the angle of orthodox [156] astrology, rules Sagittarius, the sign of discipleship, and also Pisces, the sign of the world saviors. The implications will, therefore, be obvious to real students.
In considering these great Energies, there is little you can do beyond accepting - if you care to do so - my statements anent them, regarding them as interesting and simply explanatory hypotheses. There is little that you can do (or I either) to arrive at first hand knowledge of the facts along this line. Few even of the Members of the Hierarchy are conscious of the impact of force from extra-solar centers or reservoirs of spiritual force. Only the group of Contemplatives in the Hierarchy which are given the exoteric name of Nirmanakayas are responsive to Their influence in any conscious manner and then only when that influence has been stepped down by certain powerful agencies in Shamballa. It is not necessary for me or for you to say more anent Them though I shall touch upon Them again later in this article.
