# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - An
Impending Crucial Decision

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1144.html

December 1941
As the last month of the present sad year is upon us, I come to you with a message. The determination and the inner purpose of humanity will be so definite during the period when the Sun will begin to move northward - from December 25th until June 22nd, 1942 - that the future of humanity for many hundreds of years will be decided. From that decision will date the coming New Age; on that decision, the Hierarchy will be able to make prediction and determine action; in that decision will be discovered the point in evolution of the mass of men. I urge you to face the future with strength, to free your minds from all vestiges of doubt, and to know (in your own life and for the race) that the forces of materialism and cruelty will not triumph. Again I say to you, the Hierarchy stands. Go forward with assurance.
A deeply rooted subjective process is taking place in the human consciousness which is evocative and producing definite effects. This needs to be recognized and the nature of invocation understood by all who seek to aid their fellowmen. As I explained elsewhere in detail (Esoteric Astrology, Pages 570-575), this process of invocation falls into two stages in the life of the individual and also today in the life of humanity as a whole. The stage of aspiration, irregular and vague but gradually becoming focused and assuming power; and the stage of mysticism with its uncomfortably recognized dualism; this merges into occultism which is the intelligent study of that which is hidden. It is because all [338] these stages are actively present today that we have the dire and widespread crisis.
It was the need to give a constructive trend and to focus the invoked energies which led me, under instruction from the Hierarchy, to give out - at widely separated points of time - two Stanzas or parts of a great occult mantram, the first one to help focus the aspirants from whom it met with full response; the second was also offered to the masses, but was intended to be a test and a "decision in a time of crisis," hence made its appeal to the mentally focused aspirants and disciples.
I am explaining this because world conditions today warrant the use of both Stanzas now. The Great Invocation, as earlier used, should again be made available to the masses. The second Stanza should be used by thinkers, occultists and disciples, and by all who respond to its note. In doing this there will be need on your part of great "skill in action," so that you may rightly and wisely distribute the two Invocations. The one will invoke the Rider from the secret place and aid in His evocation, for it is the Rider from the secret place Who is referred to and invoked in the first Invocation; the other will invoke the Lords of Liberation.
The blended invocation and the united call from the different levels of the human consciousness will bring a mighty appeal to bear upon the hidden Centers of the "Saving Force." It is this united appeal which must now be organized. Thus the mass of humanity will be stimulated to move forward into light, and the new world cycle, beginning in Aquarius, will be definitely inaugurated by humanity itself.
