# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Inertia of the Average Spiritually-Minded Man

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1268.html

First, the activity to be felt in the "center where the will of God is known," that will-to-good which has carried all creation on toward a greater glory and a steadily deepening, intelligent responsiveness; this today is creatively endeavoring to bring in the new world order, the order of the Kingdom of God under the physical supervision of the Christ. This might be regarded as the externalization of the spiritual Hierarchy of our planet. Of this, the return of the Christ to visible activity will be the sign and the symbol.
Secondly, the critical activity which is conditioning the spiritual Hierarchy, from the Christ Himself down to the lowest aspirant to be found on the periphery of that center where the love of God has full play. There it is fully realized that (in the words of St. Paul) "the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now, waiting for the manifestation of the Sons of God". It is for that manifestation that They now prepare, these "Sons of God Who are the Sons of Men"; it is for this coming forth to outer active service that They are already - one by one - entering into outer activity upon the physical plane. They are not recognized for what They are, but They go about the Father's business, demonstrating goodwill, seeking to enlarge the horizon of humanity, and thus prepare the way for the One Whom They serve, the Christ, the Master of all the Masters and the Teacher alike of angels and of men.
Thirdly, there is humanity itself, "the center which we call the race of men" - a center at present full of chaos, [623] turmoil and confusion, a humanity full of pain, bewilderment, disturbance, yet mentally aware of infinite possibilities, emotionally fighting for that plan which seems to them to be the best, but with no sense of coherency or any realization that it must be the one world for the one humanity. They desire simply emotional peace, security in which to live and work, and a vision of a future which will satisfy some inchoate sense of divine persistence. They are physically ill, deprived for the most part of the essentials of normal wholesome living, wracked with the sense of financial insecurity and - consciously or unconsciously - invoking the Father of all on behalf of themselves and of the rest of the world.
The solution is the return of the Christ. This is the ascertained will of God; it is the desire of Christ Himself and of His disciples, the Masters of the Wisdom; it is the unrealized demand of men in all lands. Where there is unification of purpose, of spiritual intention and of realized need, then there is only one thing which can arrest that return, and that is the failure of mankind to prepare the stage for that stupendous event, to clear the highways, familiarize the people with the idea, and bring about the required measure of peace on Earth - a peace based upon right human relations.
