# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Nations and the Rays

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1025.html

You will note that of the major nations only Brazil, Great Britain and the United States of America are definitely under the influence of the second Ray of Love-Wisdom. An interesting fact thus emerges: Great Britain is the custodian of the wisdom aspect of this second ray energy for the Aryan race; the United States will fulfil the same office for the world of the immediate future, whilst Brazil will eventually - many thousands of years hence - supersede both of them. These three races embody the attractive cohesive aspect of the second ray and will demonstrate it through wisdom and right government, based on true idealism and love.
Great Britain represents that aspect of the mind which expresses itself in intelligent government, based on just [55] and loving understanding. That is, of course, the ideal before her, but not as yet the exactly fulfiled achievement. The United States represents the intuitive faculty, expressing itself as illumination, plus the power to fuse and blend. Brazil will - at some distant date - represent a linking interpreting civilization, based on the unfoldment of the abstract consciousness which is a blend of the intellect and the intuition and which serves to reveal the wisdom aspect of love in its beauty.
It is too dangerous in these days of difficulty and world turmoil to express myself more definitely as to the future lines of unfoldment. The destiny and the future functioning of the nations lie hid in their present activities. The majority of my readers are far too nationalistic in their thinking, and too deeply engrossed with the prime importance of their own nation and its supreme significance, for me to be able to do more than generalize and indicate the major lines of progress. The role of the prophet is a dangerous one, for destiny lies in the hands of the people and no one knows exactly what the people will do - once aroused and educated. The time has not yet come when the bulk of the people of any nation can see the picture whole or be permitted to know the exact part their nation must play in the history of nations. Every nation - without exception - has its peculiar virtues and vices which are dependent upon the point in evolution, the measure of control of the personality ray, the emerging control of the soul ray, and the general focus of the nation.
It is useful to bear in mind that some nations are negative and feminine and others are masculine and positive. India, France, the United States of America, Russia and Brazil are all feminine and constitute the nurturing mother aspect. They are feminine in their psychology - intuitive, [56] mystical, alluring, beautiful, fond of display and color, and with the faults also of the feminine aspect, such as over emphasis upon the material aspects of life, upon pageantry, upon possession and upon money or its equivalent as a symbol of the form side of existence. They mother and nurture civilization and ideas.
China, Germany, Great Britain and Italy are masculine and positive; they are mental, political, governing, standardizing, group-conscious, occult by inclination, aggressive, full of grandeur, interest in law and in laying the emphasis upon race and empire. But they are more inclusive and think in wider terms than the feminine aspects of divine manifestation.
