# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Significance of
Certain Cities

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1041.html

I would like to enlarge somewhat upon this subject of the centers through which spiritual energy is today flowing, but it must be remembered that the theme with which we [95] are now occupied is one of general interest but not of individual moment. Arguing as one ever should from the universal to the particular, it is essential that humanity relate its own mechanism to the greater mechanism (our entire planetary life) and view what is called "one's own soul" as an infinitesimal part of the world soul. It is necessary also for man to relate his soul to his personality, viewing both as aspects and integral parts of the human family. This will be increasingly the case. This process is beginning to demonstrate in the steadily expanding group, national and racial consciousness which humanity is today demonstrating - a consciousness which shows as a spiritual inclusiveness or as an abnormal and wicked attempt (from the standpoint of the soul) to fuse and blend all nations into a world order, based on material issues and dominated by a material vision. There was nothing spiritual in the vision of the leaders of the powers which were called the Axis powers, and the vision of the masses of people has not proved adequate to arrest, as yet, the materializing of this vision. But the spiritual intent of mankind is slowly growing and the great Law of Contrasts will eventually bring illumination.
The Lord of the World, the "Ancient of Days," is releasing new energies into humanity, transmuted in the present furnace of pain and fiery agony. This transmutation will bring about a new power of sacrifice, of inclusive surrender, a clearer vision of the Whole and a cooperative spirit hitherto unknown and which will be the first expression of that great principle of sharing, so sorely needed today.
I am not here speaking idealistically or mystically. I am pointing out an immediate and possible goal; I am giving a clue to a scientific process which is going on under our eyes and which is, at this time, at a point of crisis. [96]
As this is the Aryan race (the term is not used in the German or materialistic sense) these five centers to which reference has been made, these five focal points of spiritual energy, are being abnormally and deliberately stimulated and vitalized. The energy which flows from them is profoundly affecting the world and the United Nations; this holds great hope for the future. It is for the reason that New York is one of these five centers that the United Nations organization is to work here.
There are two centers on our planet which are as yet relatively quiescent as far as any world effect is concerned. To them I assign no other focal point beyond hinting that within the continent of Africa one will some day be found, and later still (many millions of years later) another will be discovered in the region of Australia. It is, however, with the five centers in this fifth root-race that we are concerned.
