# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Divine Intervention

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1126.html

Today the moment of adequate tension in the life of humanity has been reached. The Angel of the Presence and the Dweller on the Threshold are at grips. Humanity stands apparently at its darkest hour. But the cry is going forth for aid, for relief, for revelation, for light, and for strength to shake off that which is evil. The massed intent of the world aspirants is directed towards the world of truer Values, towards better human relations, more enlightened living and a better understanding between all men and peoples. With massed intent they stand, and their ranks are steadily increasing. With an increased focus of the will-to-good, with a clearer apprehension of future possibility, with a fixed determination that the world move forward in conformity with the divine pattern, and with an urgent cry for help, humanity stands expectant of relief. In every land there is a growing recognition that when mankind reaches the psychological point where, having done all, there is naught to do but stand, then some Expression of a divine determination to intervene will appear; there is a growing belief that human effort towards righteous action will be supplemented by the emergence of a divine Force, Person or Event which will bring the conflict to an end.
It might here be pointed out that in similar though somewhat less potent crises in the past, this divine intervention [296] superseded human effort, but that it is hoped by Those Who are seeking to aid humanity that such intervention will today simply supplement human effort - a very different thing.
Therefore, humanity everywhere today awaits the Coming One. The Avatar is sensed as being on His way. The second Coming (according to prophecy) is imminent, and from the lips of disciples, mystics, aspirants and all enlightened people in all lands the cry goes up, "Let light and love and power and death fulfil the purpose of the Coming One." Those words are a demand, a consecration, a sacrifice, a statement of belief and a challenge to the Avatar Who waits in His High Place until the demand is adequate, and the cry clear enough to warrant His descent and His appearance.
Demand without paralleling action is useless, just as faith without works is dead. It is here that there is a break in the magnetic link which should unite the Avatar with the demand for His coming forth. His emergence must be caused by a fivefold chain or thread of energy: the focused will of the people, the massed intent of the world disciples and aspirants, plus their desire, their active participation in the task of clearing the way for Him, and complete selflessness. Only when humanity has itself done everything possible to adjust that which is wrong and to end that which is evil, and has carried this effort even to the sacrifice of life itself, can He, the Desire of all nations, appear.
Today this is being attempted. The great event of the appearance of the Avatar can be made possible by a little increased effort. The mission of the Buddha at this particular Wesak Festival is to add that new impetus, that fresh illumination, and that added power and fixed purpose which will enable mankind to surmount this crisis. From the side of the spiritual Forces of the planet, everything will then have been done to make the appearance of the Avatar possible. From the side of humanity, I would ask you: What will be done?
Between the Source from which all Avatars come forth [297] and humanity, stands the Hierarchy of Love, stands Christ and His disciples, stand the Masters of the Wisdom. They are united, all of Them, in one stupendous effort to aid mankind at this time to surmount the Dweller on the Threshold and to come closer to the Angel. This necessitates some greater help and this help will be forthcoming when humanity and the Hierarchy in one fused and blended effort stand with massed intent, invoking that aid and expecting it also.
