# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza II

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1112.html

There still remains one mode of intervention which is still more mysterious, illimitable more powerful, and definitely more difficult both to evoke and subsequently to contact. This is the emergence, response, or appearing of great Sons of God Who dwell in sources far removed from our planetary life altogether; this involves the appearance of Lives of such stupendous and divine expression and potency that only the massed spiritual purpose of vast numbers of men can be potent enough and far-reaching enough to pierce beyond the veil which protects the Earth, to those far distant realms where They have Their natural and everlasting abode. They cannot be reached by prayer or even by well formulated desire - the expression of the wish life of the masses. They lie utterly beyond the realm of feeling (as humanity understands it) and dwell ever in that high place which can only be reached by intentionally directed, selfless thought.
Are there enough people in the world today whose focused and illumined thought can be organized and directed towards these Lives in such a manner that They can be attracted and led to respond to human need for deliverance? Such is the problem. It is possible, but not, perhaps, probable. The problem of a blended demand from the spiritual Hierarchy and from humanity - simultaneously expressed - will have to be met, and this is by no means easy of accomplishment.
It is for this reason that these three stanzas from a very ancient invocation have been made available and put in your hands at this time. If you can use these phrases as voiced demands and affirmed beliefs - in unison with the [262] highest spiritual forces which claim your allegiance, no matter under what name - then there is just a chance that this type of divine activity might be set in motion along a particular line, and this might lead to changes of so auspicious a nature that a new heaven and a new earth might be rapidly precipitated. There is at least no harm in this attempt and this effort at participation in hierarchical endeavor. Planned collaboration with the work of the Christ at this time is useful and needed; it will serve at least to elevate humanity and its thought, and produce a permanent spiritual stabilization. Great potencies and the expression of ancient evil from the past are rampant upon earth at this time, released through unusual human selfishness, cruelty and error, and focused through the medium of one unhappy race and the power of certain dangerous men - men who are easily subject to evil impression and influenced, obsessed, by selfishness and evil - by forces of destruction. Is it possible to evoke at this time eternal good, latent in Lives which would normally contact humanity in some far distant future, and thus hasten the day of heightened and deepened spiritual contact in the immediate present? Such is the question. If this can be done, the evil past and the glorious future may perhaps be brought into contact in the unhappy present, and an event take place which will produce stupendous changes.
I would remind you here that the evocation of this divine contact will be, in itself, dangerous, disrupting and destroying. The results are unpredictable for the human being, for men are as yet unaccustomed to respond to Lives and Influences of so high and divine a nature. There is nevertheless a possibility that it might now be more safely permitted if enough people can stand together spiritually and selflessly, and so offer themselves as channels for these new and unknown spiritual Forces. There are divine attributes, divine qualities and divine potencies which the most enlightened humanity of all time have as yet failed even to register, sense or vision - all three aspects escaping contact with these potencies. Yet these powers exist, and the right [263] handling of the present crisis by spiritually oriented humanity may bring about the release of some of these higher energies and the establishing of a line of factual influence along which They can move and consequently contact the Earth. Ponder on this and limit not Deity through the rigidity and finiteness of little minds.
The release of great impersonal forces is ever a critical matter. The effects produced are dependent upon the quality of the recipient aspects and the nature of the form quality upon which they make their impact. In the world of chemistry, a catalyst, brought into contact with certain substances, will produce something entirely new and bring about changes not normally anticipated. These we are now beginning to study and to understand. The intervention into the situation of certain potencies of stupendous gravity and uniqueness, and their effect upon the interacting Forces of Light and forces of aggression, is still more unpredictable, and only the grasp of the spiritually minded people of the world and their steadfastness in sacrifice - plus their clarity of vision and their united world focus - can make the situation safe for humanity as a whole. Bear these thoughts in mind as you use the great and new Invocation.
One other thought I would like to touch upon prior to an analysis of the phrases of the Invocation.
