# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Significance of the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1149.html

May 1942
We have now reached the most important moment of the year. This year two such moments are brought together, reinforcing each other, the Full Moon of May and the Full Moon of June. I would have you bear in mind that time and energy are interchangeable terms upon the inner planes. Time is an event, and an event is a focused expression of force of some type or kind. Two great streams of energy - one focused through the Buddha and the other focused through the Christ - are to be fused and blended and it is the task of the world disciples, the initiates and the accepted disciples to precipitate this combined energy on to the waiting world where its effective use will be largely dependent upon the sensitive response of the world aspirants. These are to be found in every country and their task is to react to the stream of directed energy. These are the points I would have you bear in mind as you endeavor to work through and in the ashram; in that ashram are to be found all types of disciples with all types and degrees of responsiveness.
There is an increasing emphasis being given in the West by esotericists to the Full Moon of May, which is the Festival of the Buddha and is held at the time when He makes His annual contact with humanity. This emphasis, which will continue to increase for years to come, has not been brought about in order to impose recognition of the Buddha upon the Occident. There have been two main reasons why, since 1900, this effort has been made. One was the desire on the part of the Hierarchy to bring to the attention of the public the fact of the two Avatars, the Buddha and the Christ, both upon the second Ray of Love-Wisdom, Who were the first of our humanity to come forth as human-divine Avatars and to embody in Themselves certain cosmic Principles and give them form. The Buddha embodied the Principle of Light, and because of this illumination, humanity was enabled to recognize Christ, Who embodied the still greater Principle [348] of Love. The point to be borne in mind is that light is substance, and the Buddha demonstrated the consummation of substance-matter as the medium of Light, hence His title of the "Illumined One." Christ embodied the underlying energy of Consciousness. The one demonstrated the height of the attainment of the third divine aspect; the other that of the second aspect, and these two together present one perfect Whole. The second reason was to initiate, as I have earlier said, the theme of the new world religion. This theme will eventually underlie all religious observances, color all approaches to the divine center of spiritual life, give the clue to all healing processes, and - using light scientifically - govern all techniques for bringing about conscious unity and relationship between a man and his soul, and between humanity and the Hierarchy.
The first objective has been definitely reached. Today, at the Full Moon of May, many millions everywhere will be turning their thoughts towards the Buddha, seeking to come under His influence and blessing and that of the Hierarchy at His annual, though brief, return to bless humanity. This recognition will grow until the time in the not too distant future when His term of service will be over and He will return no more, because the coming Avatar will take His place in the minds and thoughts of the peoples of the world. His task of reminding aspirants continuously of the possibility of illumination, and His work of keeping a channel open for the light to irradiate men's minds by piercing annually through light substance to the Earth is nearly completed, the time has nearly come when "in that light we shall see Light."
I would ask you to ponder on these two functions which the Buddha has performed. There is a third which, in collaboration with the Christ, He has made possible; this is the establishment of a more easily achieved relation between the Hierarchy and Shamballa, thus facilitating the impress of the Will of God upon the minds of men, through the medium of the Hierarchy. This impress we interpret as yet in terms of the divine Plan. This is expressing itself at present in the [349] keen recognition by men everywhere of the need to establish right human relations, culminating in the objectives for which the United Nations are fighting. These have been voiced for humanity by two great world disciples in terms of The Four Freedoms and The Atlantic Pact. These Four Freedoms relate basically to the four aspects of the lower self, the quaternary. Enough light has been permitted to penetrate by the efforts of the Buddha, to lead to a worldwide recognition of the desirability of these formulas; and there is enough love already in the world, released by the Christ, to make possible the working out of the formulas. Rest back on that assurance and - in full practice upon the physical plane - demonstrate its truth. I said "to make possible," for the working out lies in the hands of the new group of world servers and the men and women of goodwill. Will they prove adequate for the task? Will they brace themselves for the needed strenuous effort?
