# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
New World Religion

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1173.html

May 1943
In the first part of my message under this title (see: The Reappearance of the Christ, Chapter VI) I had much to say about the form into which the great world religions in the East and in the West have crystallized and its consequent deterioration. It will be essential, therefore, to look at and appreciate the fundamental truths which that form has preserved, even whilst hiding them. It will be valuable for us to realize that within the churches men of God and disciples of the Christ have ever worked, labored and suffered. They have seen and agonized over the distortions [403] and the misrepresentations.
They have been hindered by the Organization, oft despised by the theologians, and have remained simple in the midst of learning. They have been loving and universal in their individual consciousness, among the separative and fanatical. They are the glory of the church - oft hated when alive and oft canonized after death. Their glory lies in the fact that they testify to the progress of the spiritual man and express in fullness what is in every evolving man; they are the flower of evolution and the tried representatives of God. In the indictment of the churches, given earlier, let us not forget the Christians found within those churches.
I would remind you that I write as one who believes in the great spiritual realities and who regards the unfolding spirit of man as the unshatterable evidence of the existence of "the One in Whom we live and move and have our being." I speak as one who believes in and loves the Christ and who knows Him to be the Master of all the Masters and the Teacher alike of angels and of men. I am one who looks to the Christ as the supreme expression of divinity upon Earth and who knows the extent of His sacrificial work for humanity, the wonder of the revelation which He brought, the imminence of His return and of His coming Assumption of spiritual rule in the hearts of men everywhere.
I know that He has no pleasure in the great stone temples which man has built whilst His people are left without practical guidance or reasonable light upon their affairs; and I know too that He feels with an aching heart, that the simplicity which He taught, and the simple Way to God which He emphasized have disappeared in the fogs of theology and the discussions of churchmen throughout the centuries. I know that He realizes that the words He spoke have been lost in the labyrinths of the ecclesiastical minds which have sought to interpret them, and that the simple teaching of the Approach to God which He taught has been superseded by the pomp and ceremony of elaborate rituals.
To sum up: Because of the divergences of the many exoteric faiths, the multiplicity of the sects and cults in both [404] the Orient and Occident, and the quarrels of theologians over words, phrases and interpretations, the sons of God - in process of development - are left without the needed help to contact the Christ and His great group of disciples, the spiritual leaders of humanity; the way to Christ, the living, loving Expression of God, is not made clear to the seeker. Together, the two great Sons of God present to mankind - the One in the East and the Other in the West - a complete and perfect representation of Deity; by Their lives and words They guarantee to man the possibilities always latent in the human spirit.
Today the Christ and the Buddha wait until the hour strikes. Then Their united effort, plus the invocative appeal of all who truly know and truly love, will bring humanity the new revelation for which they wait.
The new world religion must be based upon those truths which have stood the test of the ages. This I said elsewhere and enumerated four of those truths:
Two more great and foundational facts are also part of the human state of awareness.
