# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Practical Steps in the Reconstruction Work

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1137.html

September 1941
It will be obvious to you that there is little that I can say as to exact procedure until such time as humanity itself has decided the future conditions of human living. I mean exactly that, my brother. The war is not yet decided. There is a widespread feeling that God (as we call the Central Power of Life itself) will or should intervene; there is a vague demand that right should triumph and a desperate hope that something unexpected will happen that will give victory to the arms of the Forces of Light. This attitude of painful expectancy is universal among the masses - both those in the fighting countries and the neutrals also. In the neutral countries (of which the United States is the largest and the most important) there are two factors conditioning the thinking of the people:
First, a deep seated though not unnatural selfishness, which prompts the determination to take no real part in the war, except what can be done safely and at the least possible cost, and secondly, a steadily emerging cleavage between the relatively few who have vision and want actively to help the embattled Allies (the agents of the Forces of Light), and the selfish many who - for political, religious or personal reasons - will fight every effort to commit their country further than it is at this time committed, and who hope nevertheless to share in the benefits of victory.
In the last analysis, however, the world situation must be settled by humanity itself. The Hierarchy cannot interfere. Humanity has the privilege and the opportunity to take right action now. The Coming One Who is being so fervently invoked throughout the world, either by prayer, invocation or unvoiced demand, is concerned with readjustment, with the right fusion of forces and with the healing of the peoples. This worldwide invocative demand is largely prompted by a defeatist position or by a compassionate longing to see the long agony of man ended; it is seldom prompted by conviction, by the recognition of possibility or a paralleling decision to right the wrongs which lie back of the world [321] situation and which constitute the alibi of the enemy of humanity - Hitler and his associates.
The Coming One will make His appearance when the tide of battle has definitely turned and the forces of evil are being driven back to their own place. I have made no pronouncement as to time, person or place. I have simply indicated that there is a possibility (subsequent to right action) of the appearing of the One for Whom the centuries have long waited, to Whom prophecy in all lands, the rapidly developing intuition of the people, and established precedent, all bear constant witness. His hour is near, provided the needed steps in preparation are taken, and it is for that that I have approached you. I have not indicated the place of His appearing, the nature of His emergence, or the country of His choice. These are the details which concern Him and not you. Your task is to get ready for His coming. This involves right understanding and increasing labor for humanity as a result of the experience of love within your own individual consciousness. This I emphasize.
I have suggested three preparatory steps to the group of aspirants with whom I am in touch:
Those are the three major objectives with which I have dealt in past communications. I have also made suggestion as to modes of activity which are practical - some of them of an exoteric nature, such as the compiling of mailing lists, in every country, of those who think and express goodwill; others, such as the creation of the network of light, through the formation of triangles. It is not for me to decide the details of your outer activities. That is for you to do, and for that I have called you to assist me.
Let me recapitulate a few of the things which have been undertaken in our joint work so that you can clearly see the background of our coming effort and grasp the work as a whole.
