# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Conflict between Forces of Ancient Origin

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1041.html

The influence of these new groups is due to the close inner relation demonstrated through uniform thinking and a recognized unity of purpose. It is for this reason (a truly scientific one in its nature) that I have emphasized so strongly the ordinary characteristics of the trained disciple, which are non-criticism, sensitivity and love. Where these are lacking, this simultaneous oneness and directed thought and this "group aroma" (as it is esoterically called, though the word I am attempting to translate is more adequate than the above) become impossible. I have not been interested in the elimination of hindering faults for the individual's sake, but for the carrying forward of the desired group purposes. The need is for group thinking of a powerful nature along the indicated lines; for visualization of the Vision of such a clear nature that it becomes a fact for the individual; for the development and functioning of the imagination, applied to the lines of outcome and results, and functioning so creatively that the results are seen with clarity and must inevitably materialize. It involves also the holding of the inner subjective link with each other with such firmness that potent centers of force and of creative energy - working under inspiration from the Hierarchy, via the focused minds of group members who are definitely en rapport with their [104] souls and with each other - may function so successfully that the new civilization and the new culture can be rapidly established. As this has to be founded on a basis of loving goodwill and upon non-destruction, and as its methods lead to right relations between men and nations, it is essential that the establishing groups should themselves express the subtler aspects of these desired virtues.
The emphasis upon the work which serving groups must seek to develop is that of an organized, scientific activity. Esoterically, this involves an understanding of the basic science of occultism, which is that of energy. The qualities, characteristics and activity upon which you should be engaged are definitely the expression and understanding of energy along some line; hitherto, for the majority, force has been used and its impact on other forces has been noted and recorded as force impacting force, leading thus to forceful results. But I seek to have you, as esotericists, deal with energy and the result of its impact upon forces. This is the scientific aspect of the occult life.
The world is today full of forces in conflict and in wrong relation with each other, and this produces the present chaos. The new order will be brought into expression by the play of the spiritual energy upon the forces in the three worlds, and this will be the task of the New Groups when organized and functioning correctly. In these words, I have summed up one of the first and most important objectives of the group work with which I and others of the workers upon the spiritual side of life are at this time occupied. Some small understanding of the significance of these words can be gained if you will watch the effect that you produce in your environment during those times when you do succeed in living as souls, and are therefore expressing soul energy, and are thus counteracting the personality forces in yourselves and in those around you.
The desire of the Hierarchy at this time is to fill the world of striving forces with points of spiritual energy, and to distribute everywhere those who are affiliated with spiritual groups and are therefore linked subjectively to [105] their group brothers in all lands, so that a pervasive, intelligent influence can ceaselessly make its impact felt upon the minds of men and produce finally the needed good feeling, good will and good lives.
