# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
World Crisis Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1102.html

I bring to you some of the contrasts in this war, in all simplicity and in an effort to enable you to choose right action.
The first great contrast might be called the way of appeasement and the way of aggression. The method of peaceful discussion was tried by the peace-loving peoples of France and Great Britain, and the way of aggression, developed for many years, is the way of Germany, of Russia, and in a lesser degree of Italy. I would remind you that it is to the eternal credit of the Allies (e'en though it lacked worldly common sense) that their preparations for war proved inadequate in the face of German preparedness. They were not one-pointed in their war effort, for the higher value of world civilization engrossed them and the activities of their empires, which live at peace within themselves. They have made many grievous errors in the past (as have all peoples), but the way of expiation and of sacrifice is theirs, willingly accepted, and their reward is the freedom of humanity.
I will give you another contrast, growing out of the above. This is the emphasis upon a new world order within a rapidly changing world. The Allies uphold one point of view; the Germans, another. It is for this new and better world and the bringing in of the conditions wherein peace can be possible and the new world order developed that today the men of vision fight and die. The contrast is the enforced world order, emphasized by the so-called "German super-race," which will centralize the world around Germany, for the aggrandizement of Germany, for the expansion of the German living space and the supply of Germany's economic need - an order enforced by terror, by cruelty and death, ignoring the needs of humanity as a whole and the rights of all other nations, and sacrificing the whole world, if need be, to the glory of Germany. With this German-enforced rule and order, her greed for territorial expansion and her ruthless acquisition of the goods and [238] possession of other nations, I would ask you to contrast the expressed aim of the Allies, reiterated again and again in the speeches of the statesmen of both France and Great Britain and summed up in the words of a great Englishman, a government official and an aspirant to right and truth:
"We shall use all our influence when the time comes in the building of a new world in which the nations will not permit insane armed rivalry to deny their hopes of fuller life and future confidence nor be forever overborne by grim foreboding of disaster. The new world that we seek will enlist the cooperation of all peoples on a basis of human equality, self-respect and mutual tolerance. We shall have to think out many things that lie on the route of international contacts - social, political and economic - and find means of reconciling the necessity of change in a constantly changing world with security against the disturbance of the general peace through resort to violence. To this order that we shall create, all nations have their contribution to make, and a great responsibility both in thought and action will rest upon our people. We, not less than others, have our lesson to learn from past failures and disappointments."
I would have you note the recognition, by this spokesman for the Allies, of the need of change, the realization of the coming world order and the humble statement anent past mistakes.
I would call your attention very briefly also to the contrast in the methods employed: cruelty versus kindness, merciless bombing and machine gunning on the one side, and the constant refraining from attack upon the enemy by the Allies, for fear of killing the defenceless; I would call your attention to the broadcast from Great Britain, warning the Germans to take cover when they hear the British planes over Germany. I would call your attention to the reticent but truthful propaganda which lays no [239] emphasis upon that which could stir up hate, and the lying information from Berlin and conquered cities. It is not my purpose to do more than indicate these contrasts which grow out of a widely differing subjective attitude to humanity. It is, however, of value for us all to face them in the process of clarifying issues. The basic contrast between freedom of speech, thought and action which distinguishes the democracies, and the cruel suppression of all liberty of thought and personal activity which controls the masses in Germany today, is too well known to require emphasizing by me. But I bring these contrasts to your attention, asking you to recognize your responsibility to stand behind those who fight for liberty and to end the activity of those who are the enemies of all human freedom.
