# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Task of Implementing the Will-to-Good

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1189.html

This then is the task of the Christ and of the Buddha at the time of the May Full Moon - to channel and redirect the Shamballa force. If They can do this, the result will be a new realization and accomplishment of the will-to-good by the new group of world servers, under the receptive guidance of the world disciples and a responsive activity of the men and women of goodwill.
Therefore, get this clearly in mind, so that your cooperation can be intelligent and rightly directed.
First, at the time of the May Full Moon, the Buddha [440] will sound out a great mantram and become the "absorbing Agent" of the first ray force. He will use the magnetic power of the second ray to attract this force to Himself and will hold it steady, prior to redirecting it. The Christ will then - on behalf of the Hierarchy - become the "receiving Agent" of this potent energy, and the seven groups of Masters Who work with the human and subhuman kingdoms will (in response to His demand) become the "directing Agents" for the sevenfold expression of this force.
Second, at the time of the June Full Moon, the Hierarchy, under the guidance of the Christ, will let loose this will-to-good upon humanity, producing seven great results, according to the seven subrays of this first Ray of Will or Power:
I have expressed in these few simple terms the results of the planned determination of the two Great Lords which must take shape and emerge at the time of the May and June Full Moons. What they succeed in doing will take years to demonstrate, but the end is inevitable once the right direction of the will-to-good has been achieved. This demonstration is dependent, however, upon two things:
Much outer activity upon a planetary scale will not be possible till 1945, but much can then become possible if hierarchical requirements are met. A year of preparation for the tremendous task of implementing the will-to-good and of producing a better civilization and way of life is short indeed.
The Christ has gone into retreat for a month and cannot be reached even by the Masters until May 5th. He is in closest consultation with the Buddha and with the Lord of the World. This great Triangle of Potencies - the Lord of Will or Power, the Lord of Wisdom, and the Lord of Love - are today entirely preoccupied with the task of bringing the war to an end, and therefore with the task of neutralizing the destroyer aspect of the first ray. This They will do by implementing the will-to-good by means of the wisdom of which the Buddha is the experienced Custodian, and also by laying down those plans whereby the Christ may - via the Hierarchy and the New Group of World Servers [442] - bring about that "loving understanding" (esoterically understood and bearing little resemblance to what is usually understood by those words) in the hearts of men. When this Triangle of Energies has synchronized its efforts, then at the May Full Moon, the great task of leading humanity into the light of a new day can be begun.
In the meantime, the Masters and Their ashrams are likewise getting ready to implement these plans and are endeavoring to inspire Their disciples with the same vision and objectives, so that they too may be prepared to play their due part.
Such, my brothers, is the situation as regards the position of humanity and the intentions and work of the Hierarchy. What then is the work which you can and must do?
