# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Significance of
Certain Cities

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1049.html

I cannot give you the relation of the planetary centers to the human being. Too much knowledge would be given too soon and prior to the time when there is enough love present in human nature to offset the possible misuse of energy with its often disastrous consequences. The colors, [106] the mathematical rate of the higher vibrations which emanate from the centers - individual and planetary - and the quality (esoterically understood) of the energies must be the subject of human research and self-ascertained. The clues and the hints have been given in the Ageless Wisdom. The slower method of research is the safer at present. Early in the next century, an initiate will appear and will carry on this teaching.
The remainder of this century must be dedicated to rebuilding the shrine of man's living, to reconstructing the form of humanity's life, to reconstituting the new civilization upon the foundations of the old, and to the reorganizing of the structures of world thought, world politics, plus the redistribution of the world's resources in conformity to divine purpose. Then and only then will it be possible to carry the revelation further.
Be of good cheer, for there is no true defeat of the human spirit; there is no final extinction of the divine in man, for divinity ever rises triumphant from the darkest pit of hell. There is need, however, to overcome the inertia of the material nature in response to human need, individually and by the nations not engrossed with the essentials of the situation. This shows signs of happening. There is no power on Earth which can prevent the advance of man towards his destined goal and no combination of powers can hold him back. Today that combination is active - a combination of ancient evil and modern aggressive selfishness, released through a group of unscrupulous and ambitious men in every country. They will not finally succeed. They may delay and hinder the emergence of freedom. The charge against them under the Lords of Destiny is mounting up, but Divinity will triumph. [107]
