# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Only Way to Victory

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1146.html

Thus on all three levels of human living, mankind will be conditioned by a tendency towards the good, the beautiful and the true. Speaking esoterically, the personality of humanity will be integrated and reoriented towards the good [342] life, a new and better way. For the attainment of these objectives, I summon you today and all whom you can reach.
I should like to incorporate at this point part of what I said elsewhere.
One thing you must constantly bear in mind. When the war is over, when this time of acute trial and tribulation has come to an end, a great spiritual awakening (of a quality and a nature quite unpredictable now) will arrive. The war will have taught humanity many lessons and will have torn the veil of self away from many eyes. Values which have been hitherto expressed and understood only by those whose "eyes are on God," will be the goal and the desire of untold thousands; true understanding between men and between nations will be a longed-for objective, and what humanity determines to have it ever succeeds in achieving. This is an occult law, for desire is, as yet, the strongest force in the world; organized, unified desire has been the basic reason for the appalling Axis successes.
The only factor which can successfully oppose desire is Will, using the word in its spiritual connotation and as an expression of the first great divine aspect. There has been but little of that organized, spiritual will shown by the United Nations; the Allies are animated naturally by desire for victory, desire for the arrival of the end of this all-engulfing world cataclysm, by desire for peace and the return of stability, the desire to end war once and for all and to break its constantly recurring cycle, and a steadily mounting desire to bring to a finish the terrible toll of suffering, of cruelty, of death, of starvation and of fear which is gripping humanity by the throat in the attempt to strangle out its life.
