# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1071.html

The fifth phrase, Let power attend the efforts of the Great Ones, is definitely related to the effect in the Hierarchy of a constructive use of the Great Invocation, just as the previous one is related to the effect in humanity. This effect in the Hierarchy is a relatively new one and is due to the participation of humanity in the process of invocation, thus producing new effects and contacts. It is the united effort of the two great centers which is of such paramount importance and upon which I desire to have you concentrate. Its utterance by man throws the weight of human appeal and desire behind the age-old efforts of the Hierarchy and this is now, for the first time, truly possible on a large scale. For aeons, the Hierarchy has struggled alone to help and lift humanity and to stimulate the potency of the human planetary center so that its vibratory activity would eventually be sufficiently powerful to swing it into the radius or magnetic field of hierarchical activity. This long task has at last achieved success. The Hierarchy and humanity are at last en rapport. This is the higher reflection or correspondence to what goes on within the consciousness of a human being who - having reached the stage of discipleship - is at the point of blending the light of the personality (as it is expressed through the ajna center and its externalization, the pituitary body) and the light of the soul (as it is, in its turn, [170] expressed by the light in the head, or by the head center and its externalization, the pineal gland).
You will, therefore, note afresh the practical significance of these fourth and fifth phrases of the Great Invocation. One serves to arouse humanity (as a planetary center) to activity and realization and the other serves to aid the Hierarchy in its ancient efforts so that the two are then related to each other's magnetic fields and produce a blending and a synthesis which will lead to a fuller expression of the soul of divinity through the medium of humanity. Ponder on this statement.
In the esoteric teaching, this takes place in the life of the individual when - by an act of the will - the center at the base of the spine is aroused and the fire and the light of the personal threefold life (one aspect of which is often called the kundalini fire) is carried upwards and merged with the power and the light of the soul. The major approach of the two basic energies of form and soul (as an expression of spirit) are thereby related within the human being; the "marriage in the heavens" takes place and the task of the creative process of incarnation or individual manifestation is on the way to completion. Within the planetary life, the same process goes on. The life of humanity as a whole (which is intelligent form life) and the life of the Hierarchy (which is the life of the soul), under impulse from the Spirit or will aspect as symbolized in Shamballa, are fused and blended and then a new departure in the evolutionary process becomes possible. The kingdom of God, which is the kingdom of souls, and the human kingdom as mutually expressive and interrelated, are perfectly synthesized and anchored on earth. The glory of the One can then be faintly seen, which is the glory of Shamballa. The Dweller upon the threshold of divinity and the Angel of the Presence then stand face to face.
This is the situation today. Tomorrow they will blend and synthesize and the glory of God will appear on earth. The second great Approach will have been achieved. [171]
