# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Divine Intervention

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1125.html

In considering the subject of Avatars I would like to point out that (from the standpoint of mankind at his present point in evolution) Avatars are of two kinds, as might be expected when the consciousness of humanity is subject to the control of the pairs of opposites. These two are:
Let me attempt to make this analogy a little clearer. Just as in the case of individual man there comes a point in his life experience when the Angel of the Presence is sensed, known, seen and recognized as the revealer of divinity, so in the history of the race of men, the same great illumination may come. Revelation confronts the aspirant. Revelation confronts humanity. God is known within the human heart. God is known by mankind. This recognition of divinity in its varying aspects is naturally a progressive one - each stage and each life bringing its own revelation of the beauty of divinity and the glory of light more truly and clearly before the disciple. Similarly, there come cycles wherein the Dweller on the Threshold appears and confronts the aspirant, challenging his purpose and progress and blocking the door which leads to expanded life and liberation. The Dweller challenges the freedom of the human soul. So it is also in the life of a nation, a race, and humanity as a whole.
The Angel of the Presence indicates divine possibility, reveals to the attentive disciple the next step towards liberation which must be made, and throws light upon the immediate stage of the Path to Light which must be trodden. So does the Avatar Who reveals the Lighted Way to humanity.
The Dweller on the Threshold summarizes in itself the evil tendencies, the accumulated limitations and the sumtotal of the selfish habits and desires which are characteristic of the material nature of the disciple. The Angel of the Presence indicates the future possibility and the divine nature. So does the Avatar. The Dweller on the Threshold indicates the past with its limitations and evil habits. So [294] do those Avatars Who from time to time appear as the embodiments of evil and of the lower nature of mankind. And, my brother, They do appear from age to age.
Some cycles in a disciple's life present one aspect of a "confrontation" and some another. In one life he may be entirely occupied with fighting the Dweller on the Threshold or with orienting himself to the Angel of the Presence and permitting the divine conditioning energy to flow into him; he may be succumbing to the influence of the dread sumtotal of his evil and material desires or he may be drawing gradually nearer to the Angel. But - and this is the point of importance - it is he himself who evokes one or other of these manifestations. So it is with humanity. The call of humanity's soul, or of humanity's material nature, must evoke response, and thus an Avatar can manifest. It is the magnetic appeal or the massed intent of the disciple or of humanity which produces the manifestation. In other lives, the disciple may simply swing between the two poles of his being, with no conscious effort, no direct confrontation and no clear understanding of life purpose. So does humanity.
Eventually, however, there comes a life wherein the disciple is confronted by both the Dweller and the Angel simultaneously and the major conflict of his experience takes place. So it is today in the world. The spiritual and the material are in conflict, and humanity itself is the battleground.
Again, a correspondence to the Doctrine of Avatars can be seen in the disciple's individual life. When he has achieved right desire and has made a true effort towards correct orientation, then - when the conflict between good and evil is at its height - there comes a moment when he demands more light, more power, more understanding, and liberation to take his next forward step. When he can make this demand with firm intent and can stand steady and unafraid, response will inevitably come from the very Presence Itself. A manifestation of light and love and power will stream forth. Recognition of need has then evoked response. The conflict ceases; the Dweller departs to his [295] own place; the Path ahead lies clear; the disciple can move forward with assurance, and a better life dawns for him.
