# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - In
Relation with Humanity

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1230.html

I shall not deal here with the work to be done in centuries to come in and through humanity, which is the goal of all these adjustments - at least as far as your present interest is concerned. I shall touch only upon the activities of the Hierarchy as it establishes - on a more powerful [539] basis - a more direct contact with mankind. Since 1925 the Hierarchy has directed Its thoughts to men, but It has not vitalized, as It will eventually do, the religious movements or churches in all lands, or the educational work in all countries, or any of the activities which are concerned with the aiding of humanity through welfare movements. It was felt that it was necessary for mankind to show the Hierarchy, as well as themselves, the nature of the impulses towards love and selflessness which may have been already established, and to do this free of hierarchical prompting and influence, and in this way demonstrating that they possessed that which might be depended upon as innate and as present in a living, creative manner. The demonstration has been good; humanity has shown creative love, of which goodwill and humanitarian efforts are the lowest aspects. The showing has been better than was anticipated, and this new and vital realignment between the Hierarchy and Humanity becomes now beautifully possible and can be carried forward without danger. The Hierarchy is now the Custodian of far greater power than heretofore, on account of Its adjustment to Shamballa.
This hierarchical readjustment to humanity is being carried out at this time in the Ashrams by the setting up of magnetic centers which, through their directed activity, will influence humanity in the coming large scale process of reorientation. In studying this, you must remember that these are not centers or concentrations of forces, but groups of disciples whose quality is oriented towards mankind and whose potency of thought will act magnetically upon aspirants and humanitarians and, through them and their goodwill activities, will reach and impress men everywhere. The adjustment being at this time undertaken, therefore, is between hierarchical groups and groups of men and women upon earth; it is intended, as you have been told, that Humanity itself will be the world-savior, working with the aid of the Hierarchy - as yet invisibly behind the scenes. When this interim work of salvage is accomplished, then the Hierarchy will externalize Itself. [540]
You can imagine the adjustments, therefore, going on in all the Ashrams in preparation for all this and - though I touch not upon it - you can imagine the general effect of these inter-hierarchical adjustments and alignments upon disciples and aspirants upon the earth; they are the first, needless to say, who will respond to this activity. As all this is taking place in the present difficult period of world rehabilitation, the immensity of the problem involved and the quality of the tension are abnormal. It is not easy for disciples today; of this the Hierarchy is well aware. This fact also involves for Them still another aspect of hierarchical adjustment. They have - for the sake of the work to be done - to establish a closer alignment between the inner Ashrams and the outer groups, between Themselves and Their senior disciples carrying the burden of the outer world service; this alignment has also to be extended between senior disciples and initiates and the workers on earth.
The pureness of the motives animating the Hierarchy will constantly emerge with greater clarity in your minds, as you attempt to understand, even in a small measure, Their problems. There are other problems of which you can know nothing - problems related to the new energies pouring into our planet, impersonally and dynamically; problems of fresh tensions, incident to stronger and new alignments; problems concerned with human enlightenments and reactions in the face of the darkness which evil initiated; problems of increased personnel, disturbing the rhythm but necessitated by the demand for workers; problems connected with the growth and training of the Members of the Hierarchy upon the Way of the Higher Evolution; other problems incident to the planetary crisis, to the Initiation of the Lord of the World Himself, and to the amazing demonstration of the success of the evolutionary process up to the present time. This success has been proven by the alignment for direct interplay of the three major planetary centers - Shamballa, the Hierarchy and Humanity. [541]
