# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1060.html

Nevertheless, for your encouragement, I would state that the use of it has materially hastened world events, even though it has definitely stirred up a great deal of the trouble and brought it into manifestation upon the physical plane. The basically selfish purpose (even if unrecognized) of those who have used the Great Invocation has served to stimulate the selfish purposes of the forces of materialism. I would ask you: How many used the Great Invocation in a purely detached, spiritually potent and fully understanding manner? The merest handful. How many sent forth the Great Invocation in a spirit of pure love and with a [147] completely unbiased attitude? Very few indeed. How many sounded it out through the medium of a controlled mind, with a recognition and deep belief that it embodied the will of the planetary Logos and must, therefore, become dynamically effective upon the physical plane? Hardly more than a tiny handful. Most of those who used it were intrigued by its novelty, or felt it to be comprehensive though in an unrealizable manner, or considered it must be occultly effective because they heard that it emanated from a member of the Hierarchy, was used by the occult Hierarchy of the planet, and was endorsed by those they trusted, or because - foremost reason of all - anything that could make the world nicer, more comfortable, happier and provide eventually easier living conditions must be at least tried; it did not take long to say and was probably well worth doing. But the dynamic power behind the effort in individual cases has often been personal self-interest, distress at the existing terrible and unhappy world conditions and an emotional reaction at pain and horror and fear. In many ways, this has been a normal reaction to world tension and was to be expected. The standard that I have indicated above is, I well know, too high and too impossible for the average aspirant, and most people are average. But the world need is such that they must now swing out of the normal and, for the sake of service, heighten their consciousness and work more definitely from a higher plane of awareness.
I am seeking today all over the world for a group of aspirants and disciples who can and will use the Great Invocation in the right way and who will be willing, consequently, to be trained to do so. In this way there will be a group upon the physical plane and in everyday life who will be able to combine their efforts with those of the Hierarchy and thus produce an effective use of the Great Invocation with its stupendous results.
I would remind you that for the purpose of developing human will and human freedom of action, motivated by group consciousness, the Hierarchy chooses to produce the desired unfoldments and changes upon the physical plane [148] only through the medium of a conscious and awakening humanity. Such a humanity (and it is rapidly coming to this state of awareness through joint pain and suffering) will be impressed by and responsive to the directed thought of the guiding Elder Brothers of the race, but will be free at all times to reject that impression and to proceed as they personally may choose. There is no authoritative control over the minds of men assumed or cultivated by the Hierarchy; all aspirants and disciples are free to choose a different way to the one suggested if they so prefer, or if they are unconvinced of the advisability of the indicated method of work, or fear the arduous task of carrying forward the stage of the plan which has been indicated to them, or if they shirk the discipline implied and required by those who seek to make man correctly responsive to spiritual contact and teaching and so able rightly to interpret the intent of the Hierarchy.
