# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Conflict between Forces of Ancient Origin

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1040.html

Perhaps, therefore, the vision is not a part of your life and so integrated into your consciousness that you attach yourself to it as you have, in the past, attached yourself to individuals; the vision is a vision of group work, of group relationships, of group objectives, and of the group fusion to the larger Whole. When this is realized, then the vision determines your life incentives, tendencies and work, and when it is thus truly a part of your mental equipment, your emotional aspiration and your activities, and when there are sufficient groups thus actuated, then the Kingdom of God will function objectively upon the earth. This is not yet the case, because the needed conditions are not fulfiled.
The early seeds sown among animal-men were imbued with, or qualified by, separateness - a necessary quality for [102] the unfoldment of self-consciousness, but one which must now be superseded.
The seed groups now in process of forming will be distinguished by the quality of fusion, and this should be as inevitable a development as is the separative and protective nature of the ordinary human consciousness. It is this sense of union and of at-one-ment which is the protective and essential characteristic of the fifth kingdom, and it is this latent, yet actively present, factor which leads unerringly and inevitably to the organization - interior and subjective - of the seed groups, to their radiatory activity, and to the magnetic pull they evidence when duly organized. Thus they produce fusion and blending.
I am here putting new ideals and possibilities into as simple language as possible; I seek not to veil and obscure their simplicity and truth by many explanatory paragraphs. What I have here said must be read with the eye of vision and the understanding of the heart. Disciples must have these two faculties as part of their usable equipment. Have you got them, or are you trying to cultivate and unfold them, my brothers?
Another of the aspects of this group work is that its influence is pervasive, and not at the beginning dynamic. The force which it later exerts will be due to constant pervasive pressures and the steady spreading of the group influence and ideals. It is therefore ultimately very far-reaching in its effectiveness, providing the work is done as indicated. This will be due eventually to two factors: one, the power of the groups upon the subtler planes of thought and desire, and finally upon egoic levels; this will become steadily more potent; secondly, to the activity of those who form part of the key groups; they will themselves form corresponding groups of nine, or seven or five, and thus there will be a gradual spreading throughout the world of an esoteric network. For this the majority are not yet ready, but I would have you bear it in mind. True interest and acceptance of that which is indicated as essential to the disciple and to the work must first of all be patiently evidenced. [103]
