# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Ashrams Concerned at the Coming

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1280.html

Other nations, the so-called democracies, are in a state of great confusion, split into political, religious and social parties, listening to the teaching, the dreams and the plans of every person who has an idea and thrusts himself forward into the public consciousness, having no true or good policy, tainted by selfishness (personal or national, and sometimes both), and demanding the settlement of material affairs with small attention - if any - to the recognized spiritual goals and values.
There is fortunately a growing body of those of all faiths, or of no religious faith, to be found in every continent and nation who are aware of the stirring of this spiritual movement - linking humanity and the Hierarchy. This is due to their reaction to spiritual hope, to the expectancy and to the curiously widespread belief that divine intervention is possible and at hand. As the momentum of this spiritual activity develops, so will the responsiveness among men develop, and if the reaction is that which is hoped for, it will be the masses everywhere who will slowly unite to bring about the conditions needed for the reappearance of the Prince of Peace, bringing with Him the potency and the benediction of the Avatar of Synthesis. The number of these semi-enlightened people is growing fast; desperation is hastening their response to help from on high, and in due time their numbers will be so great that totalitarianism, as well as chaotic democracy, will not be able to stand against them.
This is no mystical or visionary dream with which I am presenting you. It involves hard business sense on the physical plane, a practical common sense, a cessation of the constant presentation of a beautiful future in a mythical heaven of idleness and uselessness. The bringing in of the Kingdom of God, the preparation for the coming of the Christ and the salvaging of mankind demand courage, organization, [651] business acumen, psychology and persistence; it needs trained workers and much money; it calls for carefully considered programs, possessing long range vision, plus sensible modern procedures. It is to this that all with true vision and a love of humanity are called today; it means the spreading of an intelligently cultivated goodwill and the fostering of those conditions, attitudes and points of view which will inevitably bring about right human relations.
I would call your careful attention to one most important matter. The moment that a point of balance is reached, the moment that those who stand for separateness and materialism, for totalitarianism or for any imposed regime (and consequently an evil unity), and those who stand for the freedom of the human soul, for the rights of the individual, for brotherhood and right human relations, are equal in force, in position and in influence, then the doors of the Hierarchy (symbolically speaking) will open, and the Christ with His disciples will come. This balance has to reach a point upon mental levels; it has to be reached by those who can think, who can influence, and in whose hands lies the responsibility for what the masses below the mental level know and believe. The unskilled laborer, the numerous people who never think, who are only young in the experience of incarnation, and the multitudes who evade thought even when they are capable of it, lie in the hands of two vast and dominant groups: the totalitarians and the democracies.
The consequences of attaining a point of balance are very close today. Organized evil is not in power; organized good is still quite ineffective, largely owing to the failure of the religions of the world to give a true picture of Christ's mission; therefore the struggle for control is with us now. If the forces of evil, plus the groups of men who seek control of the human spirit (no matter in what country they are found, and they can be found in every single country without exception), become dominant, the doors of evil will open and the life of man will lose its meaning; death will settle down upon our planet - death both spiritual and [652] mental. If the forces of good, the work of the new group of world servers, and the activities of men of goodwill everywhere prevail, the doors of the spiritual Hierarchy will open and - to use a Biblical phrase - the Hosts of the Lord will issue forth. The Christ Will Come.
