# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Preparation for Future Activity and Work

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1142.html

October 1941
Certain questions arise in the minds of all disciples anent the general position of the hierarchical effort, about the possibility of materializing the Plan, and particularly concerning the share in these plans which spiritual groups can undertake. I would have you remember that disciples learn to work with the plan by working; they learn to discover the inner expanding consciousness of humanity by the development of an increasing sensitivity to it; and they find their co-workers in the Plan by the old and tried method of trial and error. The less evolved the disciple and worker, the larger the number of trials and the greater the number of errors.
But the system works, for it is an eliminating as well as a perfecting process, and the residue which remains after due effort, can be trusted. You have those, finally, who remain and who are worthy of trust. Why does this system work? Because by its means the graces of humility, prompt obedience to soul injunction, and inner integrity are unfolded and developed. Where these are present, there will be found sureness of touch when humanity is contacted; sensitivity to the impression of the Hierarchy when that Hierarchy is seeking contact; and a right sense of proportion.
One of the difficulties which comes to the server immersed in the thick of the undertaking is that of preserving contact with the vision. I refer to the vision itself and not to its materialization. Perhaps I can make my meaning clear if I point out that, just as long as the contact is a vertical one, the work is fairly simple, the next step is apparent and plain, the line of activity to be followed is clear and the inspiration [333] is fresh and vital. But the moment that the consciousness of the disciple becomes inclusive horizontally (and that must take place), then the difficulty becomes great, and the disciple begins to understand - for the first time - the true significance of the words, "the Cross of the Savior." Yet if he can train himself to stand where the four arms meet (I am here speaking symbolically) he will discover that he stands in the place of power, and at the "midway point." Then he can truly begin (again speaking symbolically) to look off to the four corners of the earth, both subjectively and objectively, and with reality; immediately the strain is terrific.
This is one of the difficulties confronting the new group of world servers at this time. You will remember that some little time back I spoke of the crisis with which the group is faced. How can I express in words the nature of this crisis? It is that of the invocation or the precipitation of the Plan, for those two words are synonymous. This necessarily involves a strain - the strain of prolonged inner contact and realization, plus the effort to use skill in action and due physical plane executive ability. The new group of world servers is therefore today pulled two ways. Its effort must be to stand ready at the center. The new group today stands at the very center and must preserve and hold its position at all costs. That which signifies the most at this time is the spiritual poise and the spiritual sensitivity of the workers.
It is to this important condition that the group members must pay due attention. Disciples and spiritual workers must not be so occupied with the details of the Plan, with the production of that which will produce the externalization of the ideas, that the spiritual training and strengthening of the workers is neglected. In the dust and turmoil and noise of the fight, grow not insensitive and hard, or so preoccupied that the needs of those with whom you work are forgotten or pass unnoticed. Let love be the keynote in all relationships, for the power which must salvage the world is the precipitation of love, and how shall that find its way onto the physical plane save through a group whose ears are attuned to its imminent emergence, and through the lives of those [334] in the group who are irradiated by love itself? It is here that there is lack - not intentionally or because of the existence of its opposing quality - but simply through world pressure and strain. In the unfoldment of goodwill in the world at the close of the war - which will be one of the major tasks of the new group of world servers - let love be the active force among the senior members of the group. I would like to see more of it among all of you.
As the executive side of the group work grows, and the will aspect of humanity is contacted and its power used to evoke the emerging crisis of love, an increasing number of workers with first ray qualities will be drawn into the ranks of the new group of world servers. This constitutes the second difficulty, and it is here that I feel the need to utter a word of warning. This coming in will greatly strengthen the work but brings with it also great problems. Much of the work done hitherto has been second ray work; its quality is gentler, its technique is that of building and teaching, and its workers are magnetic and they present, when brought together, no great problems of cohesion and of group integration. Of this aspect of work, the Arcane School is an example.
When, however, first ray workers appear to aid in the expansion of the work and to carry it to the four quarters of the earth, then certain difficulties inevitably appear. It is the dynamic quality of the power aspect which must be guarded against, not in the sense that it must not be permitted expression, but in the sense that it must be motivated by love, harnessed to gentleness, and qualified by understanding.
The problem, therefore, will be to integrate first ray workers into the new group of world servers in such a manner that the destructive aspect of the ray will not cause difficulty, produce disruption or any obliteration of the dominant love note which should be the outstanding characteristic of all workers with the Plan at this time. Otherwise, the precipitation of the crisis of love will be hindered.
