# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Significance of the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1150.html

It is these which I would ask you to have in mind from now until the Wesak Moon and on until after the June Full Moon. It is at that Full Moon that the Christ can and will use this Invocation, provided the will of the people permits. At that time He will attempt to reach the Lords of Liberation and evoke Their response to the focused will of the spiritually minded people of the world, the aspirants, disciples and initiates; They, if evoked, can give the impetus which will enable the Christ (as the Rider from the Secret Place) to come forth in response to the "massed intent" of the general public.
Do you see, therefore, the imminent and vital possibilities? Do you recognize the urgency of the opportunity? The two Full Moons form one complete cycle of work and should be prepared for in line with these statements of mine, both now and in the years which will follow. As you prepare your own hearts, remember that the Full Moon of May is the time in which the new group of world servers and all the esotericists and spiritually oriented people of the world must work in full cooperation with the Buddha, and that the Full Moon of June is the opportunity for the men and women of goodwill - aided by the new group of world servers - to arouse people everywhere to make a great appeal, and by this appeal enable the Christ to invoke for them the needed aid.
One thing I would request. Set no dates for the appearing of the Coming One, the Avatar, or for any spectacular aid. If the work is rightly done, He will come at the set and appointed time and the needed aid will be forthcoming. Modes and methods are none of your concern. Regard the ancient prophecies as intrinsically right, true and correct, but recognize that their phraseology is symbolic and not to be taken literally. How the Lords of Liberation will work can only be known to the Hierarchy. Their aid will be focused [351] upon evoking in the Hierarchy those attitudes and capacities which will make possible the inflow of energy from Shamballa. Their work is with the Hierarchy, and the reaction of humanity to Their activity will come only from the new group of world servers, and may even then only be registered consciously by the senior disciples and initiates.
The work of the Avatar, the Rider from the Secret Place, will be primarily with humanity and will be for their relief and salvation.
The first half of this work, focused through the Buddha, will begin in May 1942. The second half will be started by the Christ in June 1942, but only if the invocation of the new group of world servers and the massed intent of the men and women of goodwill is adequately strong and adequately focused. It will consequently be a reciprocal process of invocation and evocation, facilitated by the extreme readiness to act and to respond on the part of Those invoked by humanity, but handicapped by the lack of sensitivity and the weakness of the will of those seeking aid. It is this inadequacy which the Buddha hopes to remove when He comes to His people in May. It is the strengthening and focusing of the will which the Christ is endeavoring to foster with a special effort in June.
These two Full Moons are therefore of paramount importance and should have a definite effect subconsciously upon the minds of the new group of world servers and upon the hearts of the men and women of goodwill in every land, nation and group. Let your meetings, your meditation and your individual thinking be steadily focused upon these points, and endeavor to enter into the Full Moon exercises - both of May and June - with as clear an understanding of what is taking place as you can and a clear picture of the possibilities which can come as the result of right action. Both the Full Moons should be times of effective service. The Buddha does not require invoking. He will come. But the spirit of invocation needs evoking from the masses and it is this work that aspirants everywhere can aid the Buddha in bringing out, standing thus with Him and with the [352] Hierarchy. At the time of the Full Moon of June, and in preparation for the opportunity during the entire month of May, the point of focus for all servers must be the Christ and every effort must be directed to aiding His work as Representative for the people. He will endeavor to gather into Himself all that they have of appeal, prayer and demand - voiced or unvoiced - transmitting it in an act of spiritual intent to Shamballa.
