# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Influence of the Rays
Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1015.html

Previous
Next
Table of Contents
The Destiny of the Nations - The Influence of the Rays Today
At this time, the whole world is embroiled in the chaos [33] and the turmoil incident upon the clashing of the forces of the sixth and the seventh rays. As one ray passes out and another comes into manifestation and their impact upon the earth and upon all the forms in all the kingdoms of nature has reached the point where the two influences are equalized, then a definite point of crisis is reached. This is what has occurred today, and humanity, subjected to two types or forms of energy, is thrown "off center" and hence the intense difficulty and tension of the present world period. The cause of this is not only the impact of the two types of energy, beating upon the forms of life with equal force, but also that the energy of humanity itself (which is a combination of the fourth and fifth rays) is swept into the conflict. To this, must also be added the energy of the animal kingdom (again a combination of the energies of the third, fifth and sixth rays) for this governs the animal or physical form of every human being. You have, therefore, a meeting of many conflicting forces and the world Arjuna is faced with a stupendous battle - one that is recurrent and cyclic but which will, in this particular era, prove a decisive and determining factor in the age old conflict between material domination and spiritual control. The forces playing upon the planet at this time are of supreme importance. If you will bear in mind that the sixth ray works through and controls the solar plexus (being closely related to the astral plane, the sixth level of awareness) and that the seventh ray controls the sacral center, you will see why there is so much emotion, so much idealism and so much desire mixed up in connection with the world conflict and why also - apart from the storms in the political arena and the religious field - that sex and its various problems has reached a point of interest in the human consciousness where a solution of these difficulties, a fresh understanding of the [34] underlying implications and a frank dealing with the situation is inevitable and immediate.
Four problems will be solved in the next two centuries:
The problem of territorial possessions which is the group correspondence within the family of nations to the materiality of the individual.
The problem of sex which will involve a truer understanding of the law of attraction.
The problem of death, which is in reality the problem of the relation between the subjective and the objective, between the tangible and the intangible, and between life and form. This problem will be solved in the realm of psychology by scientific recognition of the true nature of the individual or soul and of the persona.
The problem of the Jews which is symbolically the problem of humanity as a whole. It is today for the first time definitely a humanitarian problem and one which is closely tied up with the fourth kingdom in nature because that kingdom is the meeting-place of the three divine aspects. The Jew, with his emphasis upon his position as one of the "chosen people," has stood symbolically throughout the centuries as the representative of the wandering, incarnating soul, but the Jewish people have never recognized the symbolic mission with which their race was entrusted, and they have taken to themselves the glory and the honor of the Lord's elect. The Jew made this mistake and, as an Oriental race, the Jews have failed to hold before the Orient the divine nature of mankind as a whole, for all are equally divine and all are the Lord's elect. Calvin and all who followed his lead made the same mistake and instead of holding before the people of the Occident the realization that those [35] who recognized their essential divinity did so symbolically on behalf of all the developing, incarnating sons of God, they regarded themselves as the Chosen People and all who did not think as they did are regarded as lost. When the Jew and the narrow-minded religious devotees recognize their identity with all other people and express this identity through right relationship, we shall see a very different world. The world problem is essentially a religious problem and behind all strife in every department of world thought today is to be found the religious element.
Previous
Next
Table of Contents
