# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
World Crisis

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1044.html

Only two points of view will serve truly to clarify what is happening at this time.
First of all, a recognition that modern academic history constitutes only one page in a vast historical record and that the initiating events of which we are in search and which are working out as effects in the planetary life at this time belong to an age so distant that no modern historian recognizes its episodes. Information anent this ancient period must be sought in the many world Scriptures, in ancient monuments, in the science of symbols, in the racial myths, and in inherited and transmitted legends.
Secondly, that a study of the microcosm, man, will be found to hold, as always, the key to the study of human affairs as a whole. Just as the aspirants and disciples are at this time being tested and tried and subjected to the working out of inexplicable conflicts and drastic changes in their lives, so the same is true of the world aspirant, Humanity.
To the above two reasons another might perhaps be added which will have significance and meaning to esotericists and to all who have in any way grasped the teaching I have attempted to give you in my books anent the three world centers - Humanity, the Hierarchy and Shamballa. This world crisis is related to the approach or the relation [111] of the Hierarchy to Humanity. That great spiritual center of force, the Human Kingdom, has now reached a point of such potency and of such a high vibratory activity that it is shaken to its very depths; all its evolutionary grades and groups are responding to the stimulation, generated within the center itself and also stimulated by Forces emanating from the hierarchical center and from Shamballa.
This precipitates a crisis which has had no parallel in human history but which finds a faint reflection in the crisis which overtook the animal kingdom and which resulted in the formation of a new kingdom in nature - the human. As I have earlier told you, this present world crisis, if met correctly and rightly controlled, will result in the manifestation of the fifth or spiritual kingdom upon earth. This (as you know) will be brought about by the at-one-ing of the two centers - the human center and the Hierarchy. One of the major planetary syntheses is taking place or, perhaps I should say, can take place. (I am wording this with care and would call your attention to my wording.)
It might serve a useful purpose if I enlarged somewhat upon the four stages of the early causes, mentioned above. In so doing, I can give you some idea of the underlying purpose of all the present happenings and some understanding of the predisposing conditions which are to be found, lying far back in the night of time. If I can do this adequately and if you can read and study with understanding and an open mind, some of your natural bewilderment may disappear and you may then be able to help others to live calmly through this crisis and to preserve an attitude of patience, goodwill, balance and compassion. Let us, therefore, consider these four points because, in so doing, we shall cover the field sufficiently - I believe - to bring at least some measure of light to you. Later I will try to explain the significance of the Great Invocation and to give you some idea of the nature of the Forces invoked and of the esoteric meaning which these words (used so frequently by you) are intended to convey. [112]
