# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
World Crisis Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1107.html

Let the Lords of Liberation issue forth. Let Them bring succor to the sons of men. Let the Rider from the secret Place come forth, And coming, save. Come forth, O Mighty One.
Let the souls of men awaken to the Light, And may they stand with massed intent. Let the fiat of the Lord go forth: The end of woe has come! Come forth, O Mighty One. The hour of service of the Saving Force has now arrived. Let it be spread abroad, O Mighty One.
Let Light and Love and Power and Death Fulfil the purpose of the Coming One. The Will to save is here, The Love to carry forth the work is widely spread abroad. The Active Aid of all who know the truth is also here. Come forth, O Mighty One and blend these three. Construct a great defending wall. The rule of evil now must end.
If, therefore, you will say these three stanzas with a focused affirmative will, a great potency may be released for [250] the salvaging of humanity and the immediate defeat of the forces of aggression. But I would reiterate that the use of these words must be accompanied by the dedication of your personality life to the cause of humanity, and by the transmutation of your personal will into the sacrificial will of the soul.
Finally, I would ask you to get in touch as soon as you can with the headquarters of the goodwill work and indicate also your willingness to cooperate to the fullest extent with the Forces of Light. This will serve practically to focus your effort. I would ask you also to make it possible to disseminate this article on the widest scale that is possible, so that the use of the new Invocation may be widespread. There are many to whom it could be sent, and it would arouse them anew to fresh activity and hopeful effort. I would ask you to use this new Invocation with faith, for it blends into a magnetic unity the forces of the divine Will-to-Good, the Love which underlies the efforts of the Hierarchy, and the Intelligent Activity of humanity, thus creating a reservoir of power into which the energy of the three divine centers can pour and upon which the Forces of Light can draw. The saying of this Invocation is not a substitute for the physical plane effort on your part; it is complementary to that, and the more you are serving upon the physical plane, the more effective will be your use of the new Invocation.
I said earlier that the war could have been averted from expression on the physical plane had the disciples and aspirants of the world measured up to their opportunity and responsibilities. The Great Invocation was rendered relatively powerless, from the angle of dynamic usefulness, because the majority of those who used it turned it into a peace prayer. It was instead a great spiritually militant invective demand. This must not happen with this Stanza of Invocation. It is a demand; it is also an authoritative affirmation of existent fact; it sets in motion agencies and forces hitherto quiescent, and these can change the face of the world battlefield; it invokes the Prince of Peace, but He [251] carries a sword, and the effects of His activity may prove surprising to those who see only the needs of the form aspect of humanity.
That strength and enlightenment may be yours and the power to stand and the ability to fight for the release of humanity is the prayer and the appeal of your brother, the Tibetan.
