# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Influence of the Rays
Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1007.html

I wish to remind you that I use the word "energy" in reference to the spiritual expression of any ray and the word "force" to denote the use which men make of spiritual energy as they seek to employ it and usually, as yet, misapply it. I would point out that Ataturk, the Turkish dictator, within certain personality limitations of relatively negligible moment, made good use of first ray energy, and only the testimony of future historical records will indicate fully how wisely, sanely and disinterestedly he used this type of force for the attainment of first ray objectives. It might be apposite here to point out that such first ray exponents of force are often misunderstood and hated. They may and often do misuse the energy available but they also use it constructively within the desired limits of the immediate plan. I would also like to state that the lot of a first ray disciple is hard and difficult. There are disciples of Shamballa just as there are disciples of the Hierarchy and this is a fact hitherto not recognized and never as yet referred to in the current writings on occult subjects. It is wise and valuable to remember this. They are powerful, these disciples of Shamballa, headstrong and often cruel; they impose their will and dictate their desires; they make mistakes but they are nevertheless true disciples of Shamballa and are working out the Will of God as much as the disciples and Masters of the Hierarchy are working out the Love of God.
This is a hard saying for some of you but your failure to recognize this truth and to respond to it does not affect the issue. It simply makes your individual lot and difficulties harder. [17]
I would also remind you that the use of first ray energy inevitably means destruction in the early stages but fusion and blending in the later and final results. If you study the nations of the world today from this angle, you will see this Shamballa energy of will working out potently through the agency of certain great outstanding personalities. The Lord of Shamballa in this time of urgency, from love of the life aspect and from understanding of the Plan as well as from love of humanity, is sending forth this dynamic energy. It is form destroying and brings death to those material forms and organized bodies which hinder the free expression of the life of God, for they negate the new culture and render inactive the seeds of the coming civilization.
From this display of energy, unthinking humanity draws back in fear and likes it not. When full of personality hate and self-will, human beings seek often to turn this energy to their own selfish ends. If human beings (even the best of them) were not so undeveloped and so superficial in their judgments and their vision, they would be able to penetrate behind what is going on in the key countries in the world and see the gradual emergence of new and better conditions, and the passing away of the loved, but slowly decaying forms. The energy of Shamballa is, however, so new and so strange that it is hard for human beings to know it for what it is - the demonstration of the Will of God in new and potent livingness.
