# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Religious Organizations in the New Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1220.html

There is no question therefore that the work to be done in familiarizing the general public with the nature of the Mysteries is of paramount importance at this time. These Mysteries will be restored to outer expression through the medium of the Church and the Masonic Fraternity, if those groups leave off being organizations with material purpose, and become organisms with living objectives. When the Great One comes with His disciples and initiates we shall have (after a period of intensive work on the physical plane beginning around the year 1940) the restoration of the Mysteries and their exoteric presentation, as a consequence of the first initiation. Why can this be so? Because the Christ, [515] as you know, is the Hierophant of the first and second initiations and He will, if the preparatory work is faithfully and well done, administer the first initiation in the inner sanctuaries of those two bodies. Many faithful workers will, during His period of work on earth, take this first initiation, and some few will take the second. The race has now reached a point where many souls are on the Probationary Path and need but the heightening of their vibration (made possible by His Presence) to reach the portal of the Path itself.
And now what is it that you all can do? What is the condition surrounding the aspirants of the world today? We have a world full of unrest, a world full of pain, sorrow and strife, a world in which the emotional bodies of humanity are in a condition of tremendous disturbance, a world in which animals, men, women and children suffer, agonize and die; a world in which hunger, sin, sickness, famine, rapine, and murder stalk unarrested; a world in which the forms of religion exist but the life has gone, in which science is prostituted to the ends of money and hate, and in which the produce of the earth is not for the sustenance of the race but for the nourishing of the purses of the few; a world in which faith is oft the subject of scoffing, in which unselfishness is regarded as the attribute of a fool, and in which love is exploited in its lowest expression, sex. Is this the atmosphere in which the Christ and His disciples can breathe? Is this a condition in which They can find harmonious influences? Is this a state of affairs in which They can work and live? Are the vibrations extant upon this planet similar to Theirs and to which They can respond? We know that it is not so and that much must be done to facilitate Their work. What then can we do?
First, teach the law of evolution and its inevitable corollary, perfected men. Men must be taught that such Great Souls exist, and exist entirely to serve Their fellowmen. The public must be familiarized with Their names and attributes, with Their work and purpose, and men must be told that They are coming forth for the salvation of the world. [516]
Secondly, disciples and aspirants must on every hand live harmoniously and love. The violent vibrations of our surroundings must be stilled by a strong counter vibration of love, remembering ever that as we work on the side of evolution, the power of the Godhead itself is with us, available for use. Naught can withstand the steady pressures of love and harmony when they are applied long enough. It is not spasmodic efforts that count. It is the long-sustained, unvarying pressure which eventually breaks down opposition and the walls of separativeness.
Thirdly, esoteric organizations must stand for all that tends to unity. All types of work, all the exterior efforts of the many organizations must meet with loving cooperation and assistance. We stand in a world of endeavor as focal points for love. Our objective is the helping of the Great Ones and the rendering to Them of that intelligent assistance which will make Their plans for humanity materialize. Through us, They choose to work for the uplift of the world, and through the esoteric groups there must be the putting forth of that intensified spiritual effort which will stem the tide of evil and avert the possible difficulties that lurk in the darkness of the present chaos. The living organism of aspirants and disciples can provide a center of peace, power and love, of practical help and spiritual uplift such as the world has not hitherto seen. Such is the hope. See you to it.
