# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - Introduction

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/desnat/dest1001.html

It is of major interest for us to know something about the energies and forces which are producing the present international situation and presenting the complex problems with which the United Nations are confronted. In the last analysis, all history is the record of the effects of these energies or radiations (rays, in other words) as they play upon humanity in its many varying stages of evolutionary development. These stages extend all the way from those of primeval humanity to our modern civilization; all that has happened is the result of these energies, pouring cyclically through nature and through that part of nature which we call the human kingdom.
To understand what is today taking place we must recognize that these energies are seven in number. They are called by many names in many different lands, but for our purposes the following seven names will be used:
These energies are ceaselessly playing on humanity, producing changes, expressing themselves through successive civilizations and cultures, and fashioning the many races and nations.
This in no way infringes upon man's free will; these forces have both their higher and their lower aspects and men respond to them according to their mental and spiritual development, and so do nations and races as a whole. Humanity has reached a point today where there is a most sensitive response to that which is higher and better.
This teaching anent the seven rays remains a profitless speculation unless it is susceptible of investigation, of eventual proof and of general as well as particular usefulness. Too much is written at this time which will have to be relegated to the discard as useless, as not warranting acceptance as a possible hypothesis and as not demonstrating a truth which can be proved. I am, therefore, seeking here to do two things:
