# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Hierarchical Preparation at the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1237.html

The word "keynote" has been deliberately chosen and signifies the sound which preceded each major inflow at the May Festival; these energies will be released at a solemn ceremony on each of the three days. At each ceremony the Christ will say the new Invocation alone, and then the united Hierarchy will intone the stanza alone, invoking light, love and the will-to-good (one on each of the three days) . Those disciples or initiates who happen to be interested and watching the Triangles or the Goodwill movement will have them in their minds as they say the first and third stanzas, and the new group of world servers will receive some attention when the second stanza is chanted.
I would call your attention, therefore, to the interest shown by the Hierarchy in the embryonic efforts in which you are engaged and which I started; I would point out, however, that the attention paid is not exclusive, but that [556] wherever two or three are gathered together in the name of the Master of the Hierarchy, energy will flow; that wherever goodwill is a goal and evokes effort in no matter what form, the energy of the will-to-good will make itself felt, and that the new group of world servers is a far larger group than just the few known to you. Today its numbers are several million.
The result of this solemn three days of invocation will be followed by a climaxing day wherein the Hierarchy will unitedly, and led by the Christ, pronounce the entire Invocation, prefacing each stanza with its appropriate keynote, again sounded in unison. These notes you cannot know, but if, for instance, a very large number of the new group of world servers were brought together, their united OM might approximate the appropriate keynote.
It will be apparent to you, therefore, that in the new cycle now beginning with the climaxing of the war and the formation of the United Nations, the Festivals of May and June not only become more closely linked, but the procedure has been changed and the effect on humanity intensified. I would have all who care to meet together at these Festivals to try and do so subjectively (wherever they may find themselves) and to participate intelligently in the ordained ceremonies. I would ask all to think imaginatively and to act as if they were accepted disciples or at least on the periphery of some ashram. I am asking you to take part in these two ceremonies with a full play of the imagination; these ceremonies will later be externalized at some center in every country. A trained nucleus and a devoted band of believers is in process of being gathered together (though only as yet in the consciousness of the Hierarchy), and though at the present time there will be no outer ceremonies or any knowledge as to who will be chosen in the various lands to represent the Hierarchy, in deed and in truth, the first step towards human participation is being made this year.
The knowledge of this will give purpose and fixed intention to all of you who have for years kept these [557] Festivals. In truth, I bring you the invitation of the Hierarchy to share in Their ancient work, and not - as in the past - to play the part of interested onlookers. I would warn you that, if you do succeed in any measure of participation, it will be necessary to guard yourselves from over-stimulation and to take steps wisely to use, on behalf of humanity, the energy with which you may be charged.
