# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1061.html

I would like to touch briefly and for a few minutes upon the significance of the entire process and method of invocation.
Much has been said and written in the past by the curious investigator and by those engaged in magical work of any kind anent the use of invocation as it applies to elemental forces and subhuman agents, with the consequent evocation of active agents and responsible energies of some kind or another upon the physical plane. What is oft forgotten is that this process consists entirely of the production of contact and subsequent control of the forces of earth, water, fire and air. This is one of the aims of the magical [149] workers but it concerns material nature and the control of substance and, in the realm of the lower occultism, is allied to the invocation and evocation of money, good health and the tangible material results as practiced in the realm of mysticism by many schools of thought. Note this, for it holds a clue to the relation of occultism and mysticism upon the lower levels of consciousness and indicates the need of both groups to shift their focus of interest and their emphasis on to the higher and more spiritual values. The control of the natural forces and the evocation of the desired material rewards will arrive normally and inevitably but as secondary effects; they will depend also upon the karma or destiny of man recognized and considered, and the man will escape the danger of being himself controlled and motivated by the forces of materialism, letting in - as this condition must - much that is evil and dangerous.
The invocation, evocation and resultant activity of the Hierarchy and of those Forces, Energies and Beings Who are not controlled by matter in any way, or by substance (the lower pole of manifestation) but Who are related to the positive spiritual pole is a new activity, and as yet relatively an untried experiment on the part of humanity and the formulas unknown. Of what use was it to impart the formulas to humanity when it was as yet controlled by the lower values and unable to lay hold upon the soul aspect and to function on that level of consciousness whereon the soul is found. Only those can use the formulas effectively who live, work, think and feel as souls, which means ever in group terms.
Today, however, there are those in every land who are rapidly becoming aware of the soul as a controlling factor in consciousness, who respond to world affairs and conditions increasingly as souls, and who can, therefore, be trained to work upon the physical plane. When this is so, it becomes possible to impart certain of these Words of Power and mantrams and to institute that new and potent activity which will bring the Hierarchy and Humanity into conscious and direct cooperation, as well as Shamballa and certain great [150] Forces which are interplanetary or solar, and also great cosmic Energies. It is now possible to discover those who - being free within themselves and who are learning rapidly to be detached and selfless - can institute and carry forward the task of invoking these higher spiritual forces, thus reinforcing the efforts of the Great White Lodge. It is this process of spiritual invocation which will motivate the new and coming world religion. This is not magical invocation, as man understands it, and which is concerned with the invocation and control of the substantial and elemental forces of the manifested world, but the invocation which will evoke contact with the spiritual Lives and the divine embodied Energies as well as with the Hierarchy (which is Their intermediary) in order to bring about the manifestation on earth of the soul of humanity and the qualities of the subjective and inner divine life which all outer forms veil. This is now for the first time possible in the life of the planet.
