# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - Initiation in the
Aquarian Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/desnat/dest1061.html

The second initiation is closely related to the Hierarchy as a planetary center and to the activity of the second ray. This initiation will produce in the initiate a growing sense of relationships, of a basic unity with all that breathes, and a recognition of the One Life which will lead eventually to that state of expressed brotherhood which it is the goal of the Aquarian Age to bring into being. This major center, the Hierarchy, brings to bear upon humanity the focused [139] life of love and it is this basic love which the second decanate of Aquarius - governed as it is by Mercury - will bring into manifestation. Mercury, the Messenger of the Gods (that is, of the Hierarchy of souls), carries always the message of love and sets up an unbreakable interrelation between the two great planetary centers, that of the Hierarchy and that of Humanity.
You have again in this connection certain fundamental numerical correspondences, which are based upon the coming into activity of an awakened heart center in the race. This is the second major center in the individual and is situated above the diaphragm, and through it the Hierarchy can reach the whole of humanity and the subhuman kingdoms likewise.
To all these is related the sixth ray as allied to or subsidiary to the second.
In this world cycle it might be said that the emphasis of all spiritual power is placed in the Hierarchy which is, at present, the divine intermediary, interpreting the will of God, which is the purpose of Shamballa. It transmits or steps down the divine energy so that safe application to Humanity becomes possible. It will be apparent, therefore, why in the second decanate of Aquarius the Hierarchy can, as the representative of Shamballa and with the aid of Mercury, bring into physical manifestation the coming Avatar. This becomes possible when the work of the first decanate is accomplished and when Shamballa has released and definitely reoriented the energies of the third great center, that of Humanity. This release and readjustment leads to creative expression and renewed spiritual life. Planetary alignment can take place and this is a planned objective for which the Hierarchy is preparing and for which the Avatar Himself is preparing at Shamballa.
