# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
World Crisis from Hierarchical Viewpoint

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1095.html

The problem of those living in neutral countries is different, and along what lines it should be solved I have earlier indicated. [221]
As for the world disciples and aspirants (among whom you range yourselves), the entire problem can be seen along still wider and more comprehensive lines. You are forced by circumstance and karma, and by the free decision of your souls, to work under one or other of the two banners or in some one of the neutral and negative countries. Your problem in all three cases is to see clearly the spiritual focus of this world crisis, to swing the weight of any influence you may have - objective or subjective, spiritual, emotional or mental - on to the side of the Forces of Light. As you do so, you must preserve an understanding attitude of steadfast love (not sentiment or emotional reaction) to men and women everywhere, without any exception or reservations in your consciousness. That action has to be taken, at times, which hurts or damages the form side of life or the physical forms, is entirely compatible with the constant preservation of soul love - a thing which it is hard for the disciple to learn and master, but which is nevertheless a governing principle in evolution. This world crisis and the present world war will, it is hoped, awaken men to the realization that the form side of manifestation, with its aggressive selfishness, its cruel emphases and its separative tendencies, carries inevitably with it the seeds of its own eventual elimination and the unavoidable results of pain, suffering, war, disease and death. This situation is therefore of man's own making and the result of his material nature and lack of soul control. But - the soul is eternal; its nature is inclusive love; and the whole aim of the present crisis is to shift the focus of human awareness out of the form and the material aspect of living, into the consciousness of the soul, and to do this at any cost to the hindering forms. It is against this transference of emphasis that the Forces of Materialism are today fighting.
For this reason, humanity is swept into a vortex of conflict, and the issue depends upon the clear thinking, wise speech and selfless intent of the world disciples, working in collaboration with all the forces for good in the world today, doing their duty as citizens of their own country but cultivating ceaselessly and unrelentingly a world-consciousness. [222]
Let me now enlarge somewhat upon the possibility of divine intervention.
