# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1062.html

1. To invoke the soul of humanity and so bring about its freer expression upon the physical plane. This can be brought about in two ways:
This is called the invocation of the Great White Lodge. Much of this invocation of the Christ principle is carried forward by true believers in all lands (Christian and non-Christian) who address themselves to the Christ, no matter under what name they recognize Him and then, with love in their hearts to Him and their fellowmen, seek to ameliorate [151] world conditions, end hatred and misery and demonstrate goodwill everywhere. This refers to the first stage of evoking the response to love and understanding in human hearts and minds as the result of the invocation of the Christ and of the Christ principle. Ponder on these words and see on every hand the process going forward. Esoteric students are apt to over-estimate the effectiveness of the work that they are doing. The focused aspiration and the unselfish struggle to serve which characterizes millions of people in the world who do pray to, follow and seek to invoke the great spiritual head of the Hierarchy, the Master of all Masters, the Christ, has now reached a point of true and real effectiveness. It may be, and usually is, untinged by much mental activity or intellectual perception of the implications or the scientific nature of their procedure but is, for that very reason, potent. Esoteric and occult students demonstrate almost unavoidably a divided focus, owing to the activity of the mind and their failure as yet to blend perfectly both soul and personality. This leads to the dissipation of energy and oft renders their good intent futile. But, out of these groups are rapidly emerging those who can work in the right way and the results will be increasingly effective.
The evocation of the Hierarchy through right invocation is proceeding also rapidly, producing much activity and response from the Hierarchy of Light.
