# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Hierarchical Preparation at the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1232.html

The first things which the Christ will do, beginning with this Full Moon of June, will be to prepare all people everywhere (if possible through their regenerated, religious institutions) for the revelation for which all humanity waits.
It is this revelation which lies behind all the activities which now engross the attention of the Hierarchy. There have been many revelations of divine purpose down the ages, each of which uniquely altered the point of view and the pattern of living for men everywhere. There was the ancient revelation, given through the people of India, as to the existence of the Self and the Not-Self - a revelation which is now coming to have meaning through the teaching of modern psychology; there was the revelation of the Ten Commandments, given through the Jews and - because of the negativity shown then and today by the Jews - given [544] in a negative and not a positive form. The Christ endeavored to offset and bring to an end the need for the Ten Commandments, by giving us the eleventh commandment; this, if kept, would entail the keeping of all the others. There was the revelation which Christ Himself gave, summing it up for us in His life of service, in the love which He preached and in His constant repudiation of theological Judaism (the Sadducees and the Pharisees). This difficulty with Judaism still persists and is symbolized for us in the failure to recognize the Messiah when He came to them in their own country and let it be known that He came to the whole world and not to the Jews alone.
For this new revelation the Christ is preparing as are all the members of the Hierarchy, from the highest Chohan down to the humblest accepted disciple; it is for this that all the ashrams are getting ready; it is for this also that (in a weak and feeble manner) Christian people, those of the other world faiths, and spiritually minded people are likewise preparing.
Therefore, we have isolated (if I may use such a word) three activities to which the Christ is at this time dedicated:
To these three efforts of the Hierarchy, superintended by the Christ, another two must be added, of perhaps even greater importance. The first one is the reaction of the Hierarchy itself to the new relationship established between It and Shamballa and to that new, direct and potent channel which has lately been induced by the efforts of the Hierarchy and human invocativeness. The second activity is one leading towards a much closer relation between the Hierarchy and Humanity; this will lead eventually to the externalization of certain of the Ashrams, and later to the appearance of the Hierarchy on earth, bringing the new revelation.
