# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - A
Challenging Opportunity

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1010.html

April 1935
During the Wesak Festival this year, Those Who are seeking to lift humanity nearer to the Light and to expand the consciousness of mankind, will be gathering Their forces for a renewed approach with its inevitable consequences. These consequences are the stimulation of the human family to a fresh spiritual effort; the process and the exalted Personnel involved have been described by me in my previous message (A Treatise on the Seven Rays, Vol. II, Esoteric Psychology Pages 683-688); They will also bring about the strengthening of the new group of world servers so that they can work with greater effectiveness, vision the Plan with greater clarity and - within themselves as a group - bring [25] about greater integration. Thus they can aid in carrying out the plans of the Council of the Hierarchy to meet the immediate human emergency. As I told you before, the plans for humanity are not laid down, for humanity determines its own destiny; the effort is directed towards establishing a closer relationship between humanity and the Hierarchy.
It is possible for all aspirants and disciples to participate in this effort to the extent of rendering the task of the Masters easier by their clarity of thinking, their renewed spiritual effort, and the rededication of themselves to the task of service. To this effort I call you. It is a continuing effort which will be spread over many years. The opportunity will be offered to all true servers and aspirants and, above all, to the new group of world servers to participate in the establishing of the necessary momentum in the immediate cycle.
I call you, therefore, to a month of inner silence, of introspective thought, of self control and of meditation, to self-forgetfulness and attentiveness to opportunity and not to your own inner aspiration to achieve. I call you to concentrate upon the world need for peace, mutual understanding and illumination and to forget utterly your own needs - mental, emotional and physical. I call you to prayer and to fasting, though along what lines your abstinence should go is for you to decide. For the five days of meditation, I call you to a more complete 'fasting,' to a grave silence, to an inner focalization, to a purity of thought and to an active spirit of loving kindness which will make you a pure channel. Thus will the work of the Hierarchy be facilitated and the door opened to the regenerative forces of Those extra-planetary Beings Who offer Their help at this time and particularly during 1936. The response of this Festival will submit a gauge of opportunity for the guidance of the Great Ones. (This theme is developed in the book, A Treatise on the Seven Rays, Vol. II, Esoteric Psychology, Pages 629-751, which contains the writings from May, 1935 to April, 1938, inclusive.)
One practical thing also I will ask of you. Will you say, each night and morning, with all your heart's desire [26] and with the attention of your mind as well, the following words. Their united saying will set up a rhythm and a momentum of great potency.
Let the Forces of Light bring illumination to mankind. Let the Spirit of Peace be spread abroad. May men of goodwill everywhere meet in a spirit of cooperation. May forgiveness on the part of all men be the keynote at this time. Let power attend the efforts of the Great Ones. So let it be, and help us to do our part.
These words sound simple, but the "Forces of Light" is the name for certain new Powers which are being invoked by the Hierarchy at this time, Whose potencies can be brought into great activity at the May full moon if due effort is made. The Spirit of Peace which is invoked is an interplanetary Agent of great power Whose cooperation has been promised if all aspirants and disciples can cooperate to break through the shell of separation and hatred which holds our planet in thrall.
May I therefore close with these simple words: Please give us your aid, my brothers.
