# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Task of Implementing the Will-to-Good

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1187.html

He said when He was on earth two thousand years ago, "I came not to bring peace, but a sword." The sword of the spirit is wielded by the Hierarchy, and by its means cosmic evil is arrested; the sword of discrimination is wielded by the initiates and the disciples of the world, and by its means the distinction between good and evil, with a consequent presentation of free choice between the two, has been laid before humanity, and the lines of demarcation have been made abundantly clear in this world war. It had been the hope of the Christ and the longing of all the Masters that men would see clearly and make free and right choice, so that - without physical plane warfare - they would bring about the needed changes and the ending of wrong conditions. But the conflict descended on to the physical plane and the sword of material war (symbolically speaking) was taken up by humanity.
Forget not (particularly those of you who are outraged by physical conflict through your pacifist inclinations) that, in the West, it was Germany which first of all took the sword in hand, marching into Poland and bringing misery, devastation and cruelty to a smaller and much weaker nation, thus forcing France and Great Britain to fulfil their pledged obligations to that little nation and to declare war upon the aggressor. It was Japan who brought war into the Eastern hemisphere. The Forces of Light were left with no alternative but to fight in defense of freedom.
Prior to the war, the Hierarchy did what it could to change the trend of human living and thinking, awakening the consciences of the intelligent, stimulating the activity of the humanitarians and impressing the minds of Their disciples in order to arouse goodwill, a driving desire for [435] right human relations and peaceful conditions. But the movement was not strong enough; the sword appeared on earth and mankind was plunged into war.
Since then the work of impressing the minds of the world disciples and of those whom they can influence has been along the lines of clarifying the issues, making plain that for which we fight, and arousing men and women to take such action as will, once and for all, end the possibility of a similar world cataclysm.
The activities of our Master, the Christ, fall into three categories:
Our Master, the Christ, is also at this time carrying forward three major activities. I can tell you briefly what they are, but only the disciples of the world will grasp the true implications.
He is, first of all, occupied with the process of deflecting the will-energy, emanating from Shamballa, in such a way that it will not be seized upon and misused by the Axis Powers in order to stiffen their peoples into increased opposition to the Forces of Light. It must be rechannelled and used to stiffen the purpose of the United Nations to carry the war to a finish of victory and of triumph, to increase the will-to-unity of all the allied peoples and to make firm the intention of the postwar planners that freedom, educational facilities, truth and right living shall be [436] the lot of the incoming generation. This necessitates on the part of the Christ a concentration for which we have no equivalent word and a purely spiritual endeavor (a monadic effort) of which we have no faintest idea.
Secondly, He is working within the confines of the Hierarchy itself, preparing His disciples, the Masters, for certain great postwar events. For the war will end. The Restoration of the Mysteries, the initiation of those disciples who have stood firm and unafraid during the war, the enlargement of Their ashrams, owing to the almost unforeseen development of the spiritual sense among the world aspirants who would not normally have become disciples during this incarnation, and also the externalization of Their ashrams during the next one hundred years, preparatory to the reappearance of the Hierarchy upon earth, are some of His present hierarchical responsibilities. These involve a tremendous expenditure of force, of second ray energy, just as His first activity demands an unusual expenditure of first ray power - something which even He, in His high place, is only now learning to handle, as a pledged Disciple of Sanat Kumara.
