# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Work of the Externalised Ashrams

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1302.html

The barest outline must here suffice. I have dealt with the proposed work of the externalized Ashrams at some length in the foregoing pages and also in several of my other books, (Letters on Occult Meditation, Letters VIII and IX. A Treatise on Cosmic Fire, Pages 747-760. A Treatise on the Seven Rays, Vol.V: (The Rays and the Initiations.) and a more detailed presentation will not be possible at this time. The approaching externalization will bring about an increased stimulation which will necessarily affect disciples and aspirants and will involve a period of adjustment to this higher vibration. Adjustment to the increased livingness will be facilitated by the enunciation of certain basic statements for the guidance of disciples, aspirants and people of goodwill.
Specifically, the externalized Ashrams will be active along four major lines:
Meanwhile, what is it that you, my brothers, must do in this interim period? What is your work and your goal? Let me emphasize one or two points:
The material goal which all who love their fellowmen and serve the Hierarchy must ever have in mind and at [701] heart is the defeat of totalitarianism. I do not say the defeat of Communism, but the defeat of that evil process which involves the imposition of ideas, and which can be the method of the democratic nations and of the churches everywhere, just as much as it is the method of the U.S.S.R. This we call totalitarianism. I would ask you to have this distinction clearly in your minds. Your material goal is the defeat of all that infringes human free will and which keeps humanity in ignorance; it applies equally to any established system Catholic or Protestant - which imposes its concepts and its will upon its adherents. Totalitarianism is the basis of evil today; it is found in all systems of government, of education; it is found in the home and in the community. I refer not here to the laws which make group relations sound, possible and right; such laws are essential to community and national well-being and are not totalitarian in nature. I refer to the imposition of the will of the few upon the total mass of the people. The defeat of this undesirable tendency everywhere is your definite material goal.
Your spiritual goal is the establishing of the Kingdom of God. One of the first steps towards this is to prepare men's minds to accept the fact that the reappearance of the Christ is imminent. You must tell men everywhere that the Masters and Their groups of disciples are actively working to bring order out of chaos. You must tell them that there is a Plan, and that nothing can possibly arrest the working out of that Plan. You must tell them that the Hierarchy stands, and that It has stood for thousands of years, and is the expression of the accumulated wisdom of the ages. You must tell them above all else that God is love, that the Hierarchy is love, and that Christ is coming because He loves humanity.
This is the message which you must give at this time. And with this responsibility I leave you. Work, my brothers.
