# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Externalization of the Ashrams

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1223.html

"One of the gates is open; those who are ready can come in, but we now can go through it also, and can go to them in a new sense and more directly. May Shamballa help us."
It is realized by all in the Hierarchy that the major test connected with a higher initiation confronts Them. Disciples should attempt to realize the tremendous sacrifice involved in this outward move of the Hierarchy into secular existence. The higher the state of initiation, the harder it will be for the initiate concerned. It is, for instance, less of an effort for me to contact you than it would be for some of the Chohans, such as the Masters M. and K.H. I am nearer to you, because I am still utilizing the same physical body in which I took the fifth initiation, nearly ninety years ago. Chohans have taken a still higher initiation and are focal points of powerful Ashrams; Their task of adjustment is very much harder. Their invocative appeal to the Lord of the World in His Council Chamber at Shamballa has been mounting for some time. It has been called "The Appeal for Alignment" because the Members of the Hierarchy feel and know that this great return to Earth which has been arranged for the Hierarchy after so long an absence, will call for a fuller expression of the spiritual will than even They realize; They know that it will require the cooperation of Shamballa as well as the cooperation of humanity.
What I have to say about the externalization of the Hierarchy and its Ashrams could well be divided for the sake of clarity into the following points which will form the basis of the instruction. We shall attempt to follow this outline.
Hierarchical Adjustment and Alignment:
You will note that this involves the three planetary centers. [523]
Hierarchical preparation at the Wesak Festival:
The Externalization itself. This involves:
It will involve also adjustment by disciples and aspirants to the increased stimulation, and the enunciation of certain basic statements.
The Work of the Externalized Ashrams:
We can begin on our first point, but only those students who are an integral part of the Hierarchy and in active communication with some Ashram can profit in any measure by information on this subject. For example, those of you who are affiliated with my Ashram (or that of another of the Masters), and going through your preliminary training and functioning on the periphery of the hierarchical center can get a general idea and develop (if you attempt to do so) an [524] intuitive perception of the proposed hierarchical integrity and future functioning.
Resent not my words "functioning on the periphery," for they indicate great opportunity for service. The Masters need many such as you on the outskirts of Their Ashrams, to aid in hierarchical endeavor, because you can reach the general public more easily than They can do, and you can step down the teaching far more adequately than could more advanced disciples. You and disciples like you are a definite part of the Hierarchy; as you function in an Ashram you have a most useful place, and I would beg you to have this ever in mind. I will, therefore, give you whatever information I can and which is permissible, but shall of necessity have to leave much unsaid.
