# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Ashrams Concerned at the Coming

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1277.html

June 1948
The Full Moon is upon us and the thoughts of the world (to a far larger extent than you realize) are directed towards the Christ. It is upon His concerns that I speak to you today, inextricably bound up, as they are, with the concerns of humanity, and this by His Own choice. Many today in all lands are turning their thoughts consciously to Him; others are aware of a vague turning towards some divine Person or Power Who must and should help mankind in its hour of need. There is a rising, an ascension of the spirit of man everywhere which is better known to us than to you, whose values and reactions are not so spiritual. The strength, the power and the special energies which He received at that dramatic moment when He, the Buddha and the Lord of the World created a Triangle of Light at the time of the Wesak Festival, will be released by Him at the hour of the Full Moon of June. This Light has been concentrated upon the "center which we call the race of men," but it has not yet been released. At the Full Moon it will be poured out all over the Earth. During the interim between reception and distribution, [643] it has been transformed into the energy of goodwill and into that light which will illumine the minds of men.
The Great Invocation - now being used by so many - has greatly facilitated the receptivity of men; the creative appearance of effective goodwill can, however, be some time in manifesting. Nevertheless, nothing can arrest its subtle working and its eventual widespread appearance, on a scale great enough to be effective throughout the whole world. This greatly to be desired expression of divine purpose will be fulfiled if humanity (as a whole) stands in steady expectancy, wise activity, and makes broad and brotherly decisions. As I have often told you, the final decisions in world affairs have to be made through mankind's deliberate choice; no compulsion is ever exerted by the Hierarchy or by the disciples of the Christ to force men to take some desirable action. Man's free will must be preserved. In an unique manner, men are today facing a period of the freeing of the human soul, or a period of its imprisonment indefinitely; the right decision will lead to the Kingdom of God, and the other to a retrogression which will deify the past and prolong past wrong action.
This outpouring of spiritual energy passes through the groups or (to use a technical word which is relatively unimportant) through the Ashrams of all the Masters of the Wisdom, the Disciples of the Christ. It is then transformed or transmuted by them so as to meet adequately the needs of the different types of people who compose humanity and who are represented in the Ashrams by different Masters. Through all the Masters and through all disciples this energy passes, so that all - at their many different stages - may receive the needed stimulation. They precipitate certain specialized aspects of this newly received energy, and they therefore will be peculiarly active in the coming period.
Five of the Masters and Their five Ashrams are primarily involved in this preparatory work. There is first of all the Ashram of the Master K.H., which is the presiding Ashram in this work, owing to the fact that it is a second ray Ashram, and therefore upon the same line of spiritual energy and descent as the Christ Himself. Another reason is that the [644] Master K.H. will assume the role of World Teacher in the distant future when the Christ moves on to higher and more important work than dealing with the consciousness of humanity. Next comes the Master Morya and His Ashram, because the whole procedure is projected from Shamballa, and He is in close touch with that dynamic center. The Master R., as the Lord of Civilization, is necessarily closely involved in this preparatory work, and also because He is what has been called the Regent of Europe. Another Ashram is also very deeply concerned in this work; I have, at times, referred to the Master Who was responsible for the organization of Labor. This work He began to do in the latter part of the nineteenth century, but left it to carry forward of its own momentum when Russia entered the field and laid an undue emphasis upon the proletariat during the revolution and in the later years of the first quarter of the twentieth century. I (D.K.) am the fifth Master concerned in this special work and am, as it were, the liaison officer between those active and conscious disciples who are working in the World of outer affairs and those directly responsible to the Christ for the desired work of preparation. Certain disciples from these five Ashrams or groups have been (and will be) especially trained for the work of contacting the public.
The stimulation which can be given will be released at the coming Full Moon. The five specialized energies are as follows:
