# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - An Analysis of Certain
Countries

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1033.html

The horoscope of a country can, therefore, be either that of the soul of the nation or of the personality of the nation, based on the form aspect; there are no means, as yet, of determining the date, for instance, of the birth of a nation or of a race. Boundaries are not determining factors nor is history itself, as now given, an adequate guide. As said above, some nations are entities and demonstrably so, as, for instance, France or Japan; others have been great and powerful nations but are so no longer, but the strain is there, and of these, India and the Jewish race are illustrations. Other nations are, relatively speaking, very modern, as for instance the German nation, yet the strain is very ancient. Strains, types, races, nations, branches and subbranches produce a bewildering kaleidoscope before which astrology necessarily stands confused. But to the eye of the enlightened esotericist, certain entities emerge clearly and form the nations of the world; the important factor always to remember is that it is humanity as a whole which is the factor to be considered. The simile of the human body with its definitely recognized areas of expression, and the organisms which, in their turn, control and condition these areas will be helpful here. The important and the non-important appear; the developing and the vestigial also emerge and under the Law of Correspondences aid in elucidating. In the great body of humanity there are certain areas [72] which vibrate in unison and which attract to themselves souls of a certain quality and keynote; there is a magnetic interplay between countries (territories) and the nations which occupy them. This is not an arbitrary matter but due to magnetic interplay. It is also vibratory interplay, under the great Law of Attraction and Repulsion which has much to do with the intercourse and relationships between nations. Let us now look at a few of them.
