# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Ashrams Concerned at the Coming

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1279.html

It must be remembered that synthesis is an aspect of the first divine characteristic, the Will, or rather, the Will-to-Good. This energy or influence, which the Christ Himself will wield (and for which He has been long preparing Himself), produces cohesion, a drawing together and a tendency to fusion and union. The separateness of humanity, and its selfishness, had reached such vast proportions, and its effects were so completely dominated by the Forces of Evil, that - in response to the massed inchoate demand of humanity - the Hierarchy called for spiritual interposition. The endless selfish propaganda, in speech or in writing, most of it materialistic, nationalistic and basically untrue and wrongly motivated, became such a clamor that it reached to spheres usually impervious to the sounds of earth; the Avatar of Synthesis was called in to aid.
The main objective and the immediate task of the Christ is to bring to an end the separateness which exists between man and man, family and family, community and community, and nation and nation. This is a simple statement, and one that can be understood easily by the most ignorant; it is simple also in that it provides a practical objective and task [649] for the smallest and the most unimportant of the sons of men; all can cooperate if they will. It is nevertheless a task which has required the mobilizing of the entire planetary Hierarchy, and the assistance also of a great Being Who would normally work on levels of consciousness higher than those on which Christ and His disciples labor.
It will be obvious (if you have considered my words with care) that a great spiritual movement is under way - perhaps the greatest of all time, if we except the great spiritual crisis which brought the fourth kingdom into being, the human kingdom. I have mentioned above only three of the most important results for which the Hierarchy hopes. Humanity is deemed to have reached a point in evolution where much can be done, because the minds of men - for the first time on a worldwide scale - are sensitive to spiritual impression; the opportunity of the moment is unique, because minds everywhere are showing themselves superlatively receptive to both good and evil. Men are not today governed so much by blind impulse as by considered thought. There have always been small groups and rare souls who have demonstrated the capacity to respond to spiritual impression. The line of least resistance for the masses is the selfish impulse, and there lies the major point of attack by the Forces of Light.
