# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Forces of Restoration

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1196.html

There is first of all the phase, now in progress, which will culminate at the time of the Easter Full Moon. This is dedicated to planning for an inflow of the Forces of Restoration. Do not misunderstand these words. The Hierarchy is not occupied with the restoration of the old order, with the state of life prior to the war, or with the renewal of the theologies (religious, political and social) which have governed the past and which have been largely responsible for the war. The restoration referred to is psychological in nature, but will work out in the restoration of the will-to-live and the will-to-good. It will consequently be foundational, and will guarantee the new civilization and culture. This is a very different matter.
These Forces of Restoration are concerned with human vision, human integrity and human relations as they underlie the entire problem of the brotherhood of man. These [457] energies, if released upon the Earth, will render futile the efforts of the old order (in politics, religion and education) to restore what was and to bring back that which existed prior to the war. They will endeavor to offset two tendencies which will have to be taken into momentous consideration during the coming cycle of conferences:
Great danger to the future of the race lies in these two tendencies; the Hierarchy is determined to offset them as far as possible, whilst the forces of evil are eagerly trying to foster and nurture them. They are also dangers which the intelligent leaders of the race equally recognize. This recognition will make them slow in arriving at final decisions, because they will realize the need for a cycle of restoration before final and lasting decisions are made. They will therefore work for a slower moving forward and for a more careful and even prolonged investigation of the situation and of future possibilities than may seem desirable to the impatient.
These new and living restorative forces are under the direction and the control of One Whom we might call (speaking symbolically, yet factually) the Spirit of Resurrection. It is this living spiritual Entity, working temporarily under the direction of the Christ, Who will restore livingness to men's spiritual aims and life to their planning; Who will engender anew the vitality needed to implement the trends of the New Age and Who will guide humanity out of the dark cave of death, isolation and selfishness into the light of the new day. It is this resurrection life which will be poured into humanity at Easter time this year, to some [458] degree, but which - during the next three Easter periods - can be poured in in full measure, if the men and women of goodwill will think clearly, speak forcefully, demand spiritually and implement the inner plans with intelligence.
On a planetary scale, and not just in reference to mankind, this Spirit of Resurrection is the opponent and the antagonist of the Spirit of Death. Physical death takes place only when the psychological and mental vitality of the individual, of a nation, or of humanity drops below a certain level. Humanity has been responding to the processes of dying during the last 150 years; psychologically, mankind has been ruled by selfishness, and selfishness is the potent seed of death - material death, psychological death and mental death. This is seen well demonstrated in the German nation. Think this statement out, and then recognize that similar seeds and similar areas of death (though to a lesser degree) exist in every nation - even in the younger nations of the world. Hence the war; hence the destruction of all the outer garments of civilization.
But the work of the Angel of Death, awful as it may seem as it demonstrates today on a planetary scale - but beneficent as we know it to be in intent and in purpose - will give place to that of the Spirit of Resurrection.
It is the planning of this restoration and this resurrection activity which is now under consideration by the Hierarchy, having been handed over to Them because They are closer to man than are Those Who function in the Council Chamber at Shamballa. It must be remembered that this Spirit of Resurrection is a Member of that Council and Their chosen Emissary. He (if one may be permitted to personalize the impersonal) is in truth the "Sun of Righteousness" Who can now arise "with healing in His wings"; Who can carry this life-giving energy which counteracts death, this vision which gives incentive to life, and this hope which can restore all nations. At the Full Moon of March, let the demand go out for the appearance of this life-giving Spirit. Let it go forth with such intensity that the Hierarchy will be called into active response and will [459] immediately release the potency of this Spirit into the hearts of men everywhere.
