# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Task of Implementing the Will-to-Good

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1188.html

The hate of those who have suffered at the hands of the Axis Powers, or as a result of war conditions, must be offset. How can this be done? Such are some of the problems with which the Christ is wrestling. He must work through His disciples, and They must be trained. He must work through the stimulation of the hearts of the intelligent people and of the humanitarians everywhere. He must pour out the life-giving energy of the Christ-life on a wide scale throughout the entire world, and do so in the midst of those conditions wherein human receptivity and sensitivity are at their lowest point, owing to the numbness which comes through intense suffering. He stands in His place unmoved and unafraid, with clear perception of the truth and spiritual insight into the true situation. In collaboration with His great Brother, the Buddha, He is preparing for the next step.
Today the Hierarchy is facing a climaxing activity. From the Full Moon of May, 1944, until the Full Moon of May, 1945, the Members of the Hierarchy will unitedly be putting forth Their maximum effort to close the door upon the Forces of Evil, to direct the Shamballa energy (now let loose upon the world) so that its destructive aspect may be transmuted or directed towards the stimulation which will result in the rebuilding of the world. This will then affect not only the Members of the Hierarchy, but all on Earth who respond to hierarchical impression. Have the following statement in mind:
The focused and concentrated work of the Hierarchy at the time of the Full Moon of May, 1944 is - by Their united effort, Their blended thought and Their illumined will power, under the trained guidance of [438] the Buddha and the Christ - to withdraw the energy of the will-to-separation and aggression (a distortion of first ray energy) away from the Forces of Evil and channel it again, via the Hierarchy; it will then demonstrate as the Will-to-Good, and this will express itself via the men of goodwill on Earth. This requires a great Act of Absorption by the Hierarchy.
The Buddha will start the process at the time of His appearance, through the use of a great first ray mantram. This can be used only by someone of His initiate standing and in collaboration with the Lord of the World. He will thereby deflect the Shamballa force which the Adepts of the Black Lodge have turned loose into the Axis nations; this has been made possible by their receptivity to the will-to-power. He will "corral" it (if I may use such a colloquial and inappropriate term) and will place it at the disposal of the Christ. The reception and the acceptance of this first ray energy will require a tremendous effort upon the part of the Christ, the Custodian of the energy of the second Ray of Love-Wisdom. It is for this "reception" that He started to prepare at the time of the April Full Moon.
I have told you elsewhere that this direct impact of the Shamballa energy upon humanity very seldom occurs. It has been loosed only three times during the entire history of the human kingdom. At other times, it makes its impact directly upon the Hierarchy, and is then transmuted or stepped down so that humanity can take it. The three times it has been directed, unimpeded and untransmuted, towards humanity are:
