# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Fiat of the Lord go forth...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1119.html

The question arises here whether the cycle is susceptible to interference and whether it must not perforce run its appointed course. I would remind you that the law of cycles is the law governing the appearing and the disappearing of great and active energies which pass in and out of manifestation, fulfiling the purposes of Deity and yet limited and handicapped by the quality of the forms upon which they make their impact. If any intervention is possible and takes place, it will be an "intervention in time." Such an intervention is hinted at in the sacred scriptures, such as the New Testament, where it is foretold that "for the sake of the elect, the time shall be shortened." The real meaning of this (which is not apparent in the rather inadequate translation which we have) is "because of the elect or because of those who know and who take right action, the progress of evil can be arrested." This is encouraging, and I commend the thought to your attention. There is a power which such "elect" can wield - understanding its nature, preparatory and selfless.
And Death - to what does this refer? Not to the death of the body or form, for that is relatively unimportant; but to the "power to relinquish," which becomes in time the characteristic of the pledged disciple. The new era is coming; the new ideals, the new civilization, the new modes of life, of education, of religious presentation and of government [279] are slowly precipitating and naught can stop them. They can, however, be delayed by the reactionary types of people, by the ultra-conservative and closed minds, and by those who cling with adamantine determination to their beloved theories, their dreams and their visions, their interpretations and their peculiar and oft narrow understanding of the presented ideals. They are the ones who can and do hold back the hour of liberation. A spiritual fluidity, a willingness to let all preconceived ideas and ideals go, as well as all beloved tendencies, cultivated habits of thought and every determined effort to make the world conform to a pattern which seems to the individual the best because, to him, the most enticing - these must all be brought under the power of death. They can be relinquished with safety and security and no fear of results, if the motive of the life is a real and lasting love of humanity. Love, true spiritual love as the soul knows it, can ever be trusted with power and opportunity and will never betray that trust. It will bring all things into line with soul vision.
Again we have the energy of the three centers with which we are becoming familiar, and can see them being brought together and their triumphant relation being fused and blended. It thus becomes apparent that Those Who formulated this new and vital Invocation believed firmly in the power of humanity - upon its own levels of consciousness - to express the three divine potencies, Will, Love and Activity, in some measure. The demand goes forth to the Coming One to aid in the blending of the three upon Earth, so bringing them into physical plane expression, and thus unite the potencies of the human kingdom with the potencies which He will bring with Him for the saving of humanity. Only when humanity offers all that it has to give to the service of the sad, the suffering, and the oppressed, and will work actively and intelligently to bring about release, can that full cooperation be established between the inner and the outer potencies which is so deplorably needed at this time. Unless, for instance, those who can use this Invocation parallel its voiced expression with some form of definite [280] physical plane service, and so aid constructively the Forces of Light, their efforts will prove negligible. It is humanity alone which can precipitate the new incoming energies from the Lords of Liberation and make possible Their activity on Earth. It is humanity alone which can open the door on to the physical plane for the Rider from the secret place. The stupendous inner Potencies can reach certain levels of human activity and contact, such as the mental plane, but their further progress downward into outer expression, power and manifestation, is dependent upon the potent, magnetic, indrawing power of man himself.
