# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Release of Atomic Energy

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1213.html

In this process of planetary initiation humanity has carried its work as the world savior down into the world of substance, and has affected those primary units of life of which all forms are made.
5. You will now understand the meaning of the words used by so many of you in the second of the Great Invocations: The hour of service of the saving force has now arrived. This "saving force" is the energy which science has released into the world for the destruction, first of all, of those who continue (if they do) to defy the Forces of Light working through the United Nations. Then - as time goes on - this liberated energy will usher in the new civilization, the new and better world and the finer, more spiritual conditions. The highest dreams of those who love their fellowmen can become practical possibilities through the right use of this liberated energy, if the real values are taught, emphasized and applied to daily living. This "saving force" has now been made available by science, and my earlier prophecy substantiated.
(See A Treatise on White Magic, published in 1934, beginning on Page 333, where the following statements appear: It might be noted here that three great discoveries are imminent and during the next two generations will revolutionize modern thought and life. One is already sensed and is the subject of experiment and investigation, the releasing of the energy of the atom. This will completely change the economic and political situation in the world, for the latter is largely dependent upon the former. Our mechanical civilization will be simplified, and an era ushered in which will be free from the incubus of money (its possession and its non-possession), and the human family will recognize universally its status as a bridging kingdom between the three lower kingdoms of nature and the fifth or spiritual kingdom. There will be time and freedom for a soul culture which will supersede our modern methods of education, and the significance of soul powers and the development of the superhuman consciousness will engross the attention of educators and students everywhere. A second discovery will grow out of the present investigations as to light and color. The third development, which will be the last probably to take place, will be more strictly in the realm of what the occultists call magic. It will grow out of the study of sound and the effect of sound, and will put into man's hands a tremendous instrument in the world of creation.) [498]
