# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Approach, via certain Ashrams

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1249.html

Upon this subject I have no time to give, and besides this, anything I could say would be regarded as visionary and impractical in a world which has not yet been subjected to the educational processes of the disciples and initiates on the first, second and fifth rays or to the fundamental changes which the new generation of young people (now growing up) will shortly inaugurate.
Upon this threefold condition of the basic control of the products of the planet, these third ray disciples, working under the senior initiates above mentioned, will build the new structure of material relationships - a most difficult task, owing to the evil "pull" of the substantial assets and the continued control, even though greatly lessened, of human selfishness. This "pull" is regarded esoterically as evil because it embodies the principle of imprisonment and has, for untold aeons, engrossed the attention of the human being, to the exclusion of all true values.
Later, disciples and initiates of the seventh ray and of the sixth ray will come into physical incarnation. The only Ashram which will be then unrepresented - and this for a long time - will be the fourth. As the fourth ray is, however, the constant ray of the human family, its influence is consistently present, and this Ashram is equally constantly aware of and influential in human affairs; it will come into full expression when the intuition of the human being, emanating as an energy from the fourth or buddhic plane, has been evoked by the human soul and is a recognized asset in human consciousness. The fourth ray will come into manifestation before many generations have passed, but only from the angle of its incarnating Monad, and not from the angle of its active Ashram. [582]
Once the contact - in physical manifestation and physical recognition - has been established, a system of "appearances and of abstractions" will be instituted by the Hierarchy, producing what might be regarded as a circulation of its life and representatives between the two major planetary centers, the Hierarchy and Humanity. According to the need upon the physical planet, and upon the acceptance of certain designs, will an Ashram be prominently active or relatively inactive.
The ancient activities of the Hierarchy will still persist - the activities of preparing disciples and initiates for initiation and for participating consciously in hierarchical effort; the Schools of the Mysteries (as outlined by me in Letters on Occult Meditation) will come into being and practice, but this will be temporarily a secondary activity; the full expression of ashramic energy will be directed to practical world affairs and to the education of the general public, and not in the early stages to esoteric matters. In the last analysis, there is for the Master and His disciples no such thing as esotericism, except in so far as Shamballa is concerned. There is only definite and planned work with the consciousness of all forms, and - where humanity is involved - this is regarded as a process of education, leading to an expansion of perception and the changing of acquired academic knowledge into an over shadowing and conditioning wisdom. The implementing of human affairs to bring about this unfoldment in consciousness is in the hands of disciples who are undergoing the process themselves, and it is not in the hands of the Masters, Whose consciousness is fully expanded - a consciousness entering a higher and greatly different phase, connected with Being and Life and the purposes of Shamballa.
