# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Organising the Ashrams into Form on Earth

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1288.html

Every October and every March, the Master R. gathers [669] together His council of helpers, the Masters and the senior initiates in the Ashrams of the third, the fifth and the seventh rays. Though He is the Head of the third Ray of Aspect and is in control, therefore, of the two Rays of Attribute mentioned above, He does not Himself wield these forces, because He is One of the three Heads of the Hierarchy and His work cannot be confined to the activity of any one ray. He works through the Ashrams of these rays, but He Himself works primarily in cooperation with the Christ and the Manu.
Now we come to the work which I (D.K.), a second ray Master, am attempting to do. With what energies am I working? What is the goal towards which I am striving under the direction of the three great Lords of the Hierarchy? I am working with the energy of right human relations; this is a definite and integral part of the energy of the second ray. It is a magnetic type of energy and draws men together for betterment and for right understanding. It is also related in a peculiar way to the energy of the first Ray of Will or Power. Perhaps this will be clearer to you if I point out that the will-to-good is an aspect of the Ray of Will, but that goodwill is an attribute of the second Ray of Love-Wisdom, thus relating that ray to the first ray.
There is no need for me to enlarge upon the work which I am doing in and through my Ashram; you know it well, for I have frequently outlined it, and my books present the goal adequately for this generation.
In this particular though relatively short cycle, my Ashram is in a key position. It is closely linked to the first ray Ashram of the Master Morya, through the work of Men of Goodwill and through all goodwill movements in the world at this time. Goodwill is essentially an expression of the second Ray of Love Wisdom, and is therefore an aspect of all the Ashrams in that great second ray Ashram, the Hierarchy. But all goodwill work is today being galvanized also into violent activity through the dynamic energy of the first ray, expressing the will-to-good.
You have, therefore, this dynamic type of energy [670] channeled through the Ashram for which I am responsible. This Ashram works also in close cooperation with that of the Master R. because the intelligent activity of the energy of goodwill is our objective, and its expression through intelligence, applied with wisdom and with skill in action, is the task demanded of all men and women of goodwill throughout the world. When the Labor Movement is swept by the energy of goodwill, basic changes in world affairs will take place. I would ask all workers for goodwill to attempt to reach labor in all countries with these ideas, correctly presented.
I have tried here to give you some idea of the synthesis of this hierarchical work for humanity, and thereby give to all men and women of goodwill the needed courage to go forward.
You ask me (and rightly) of what use is all this information to men and to the aspirant who is trying to serve? The one thing which humanity needs today is the realization that there is a Plan which is definitely working out through all world happenings, and that all that has occurred in man's historical past, and all that has happened lately, is assuredly in line with that Plan. Necessarily also, if such a Plan exists, it presupposes Those Who are responsible for the originating of the Plan and for its successful carrying forward. From the standpoint of average humanity, who think in terms of earthly happiness, the Plan should be something joyful and something which would make material life easier. To the spiritual Hierarchy, the Plan involves those arrangements or circumstances which will raise and expand the consciousness of mankind and enable men, therefore, to discover the spiritual values for themselves and to make the needed changes of their own free will, and thus produce the demanded betterment of the environment, consistent with the unfolding spiritual recognition.
