# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Hierarchical Preparation at the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1231.html

April-May 1946
I have delayed writing my usual Wesak message until this late date because of a certain event in the Hierarchy which was maturing and which necessitated my entire attention. This event was connected with the Wesak Festival and involved among other matters the formation of a new Ashram in which the Wisdom aspect would be of particular importance and not the Love aspect; this Ashram would also be related in a peculiar manner to the Buddha. It had to be formed at this time in order to be the recipient, and then the custodian, of certain "endowments" which the Buddha will bring at the time of the May Full Moon. The endowments concern the will-to-good of the Lord of the World, the Ancient of Days, though they do not concern goodwill as you understand that phrase. This Ashram, when duly formed and established, will enable the Members of the Hierarchy to respond to this aspect of the divine Purpose - the Purpose which as you know lies behind and implements the Plan; this Ashram, related to the Buddha, will be specifically under the close supervision of the Christ, and also of the Lord of Civilization - at this time the Master R. They are the only two Members of the Hierarchy able to register the divine Purpose (in regard to its immediate objectives) in such a manner that the entire Hierarchy can be informed and can then work unitedly and intelligently at its implementation. More than this I may not tell you about this particular hierarchical move, affecting as it does both Shamballa and the Hierarchy.
This Wesak Festival is of supreme importance because it is the first Festival since the war ended, because it takes place at a time when a definite orientation of the Hierarchy will take place, and because a fresh tide of spiritual impulse and directed second ray energy will flood the entire Hierarchy; the work, therefore, to be done by the Hierarchy will be far more effective. This you may anticipate and upon this you can count. [542]
But - as you may well have surmised - it is the Full Moon of June which is (this year) the season of prime and outstanding importance; it is in many ways easier for Western believers and esotericists to tune in and participate in the activities of the Hierarchy when closely connected with the Christ than it is in those related to the Buddha. The main intention in these early stages of keeping the Eastern Festival of Wesak is to familiarize the Western world with the fact of the presence of the Buddha and with His activities in connection with humanity. Such great progress has, however, taken place in the spiritual development of humanity that the Buddha need no longer continue with His task unless He so desires - and then only for a period of years, known to Him and the Lord of the World. He could cease His annual contact with the Hierarchy at this time, if He so chose, owing to the direct contact now established between the Hierarchy and Shamballa. This, however, He does not immediately choose to do. For a few decades longer He will cooperate with the Christ in widening the channel of contact between Shamballa, the Hierarchy and Humanity. After that, He will "proceed to His Own place" in the solar Hierarchy and will no longer visit the Himalayas annually, as has been His custom for so many centuries. The Eastern Festival of Wesak (Vaisakha) and the Christian day of remembrance, Good Friday, will fade out of the consciousness of humanity in due time; they are both festivals related to aspects of the first Ray of Power or Will. The abolition of the fear of death and the establishment of a close relation of the Hierarchy with Shamballa will render obsolete these ancient ceremonial rites.
In this message I would like to consider with you primarily the Festival of the Christ, held at the time of the Full Moon of June, and the work of the Christ as He prepares Himself for the fulfilment of His true mission on Earth. The Christian Church has so distorted that mission and ruthlessly perverted the intention for which He originally manifested that a consideration of that mission is deeply needed and should be revolutionary in its effects. Starting [543] with St. Paul, the theologians interpreted His words in such a manner that they served to bridge the gap between the spiritual future of the world and the Jewish dispensation which should have been passing out. So effective has been their work that the teachings of the loving, simple Son of God have been largely ignored; the failure of Christianity can be traced to its Jewish background (emphasized by St. Paul), which made it full of propaganda instead of loving action, which taught the blood sacrifice instead of loving service, and which emphasized the existence of a wrathful God, needing to be placated by death, and which embodied the threats of the Old Testament Jehovah in the Christian teaching of hell fire.
