# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Organising the Ashrams into Form on Earth

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1282.html

1. The energy of prana; this is the life-giving energy from the Sun which deals out both life and death, health and disease, according to the quality of the substance or material form upon which it makes its impact. This impact and its results are today entirely automatic in application and effectiveness, and are regarded as functioning "below the threshold of the consciousness" of humanity, and necessarily of the Hierarchy. Its rhythm is established and its effects are well known and proven. The direction of this energy will eventually be in the hands of that great planetary center, Humanity; therefore, to mankind will then be committed the responsibility for its distribution to the subhuman kingdoms in nature.
2. The energy of the emotions or that of the astral plane. This energy is today in a condition of extraordinary activity, producing basic changes upon all sides, stimulating desire (both good and bad), and governing, via the solar plexus center, all that lies below the diaphragm in the human vehicle of expression upon etheric and physical levels. This, when combined with a powerful inflow of the energy of prana, produces and stimulates every aspect of the animal magnetism with which every physical form is equipped; when combined with the energy of mind, it produces a magnetic personality, and this in both the good and the bad sense.
3. The energy of the mental plane. This is rapidly coming into an unique potency and its effects today are reaching down into the very depths of humanity, thus bringing to the surface the mental capacity which is latent in and hitherto unused by the masses of men everywhere. It can be described as pouring into the human consciousness by means of four divisions of mental energy:
4. The energy of humanity itself, organized and directed by the advanced thinkers and workers in all and every (and this I reiterate) branch of human executive work; in every educational process and in all political regimes. I would most definitely emphasize the widespread nature of this energy contact because esoteric students have very frequently [657] the erroneous idea that the Hierarchy works only through the medium of esoteric and so-called occult groups. The more advanced a man may be, the more sensitive to impress he becomes, and the human race has now reached a point of sensitivity never before attained. This has happened through the agency of the energies listed above. Disciples and aspirants and the intelligentsia everywhere and in every land are today - consciously or unconsciously - responsive to these four energies; the closer they are affiliated with some Ashram in the Hierarchy, the more the sevenfold hierarchical energies can be distributed to the rest of the human family. It is therefore in this field that the major hierarchical endeavor will - during the next fifty years - express itself. Here, consequently, lies the fundamental problem confronting the Hierarchy, for these energies must be most carefully directed and their resultant impact be most scientifically considered if over-stimulation is to be avoided.
