# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - An Analysis of Certain
Countries - France

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/desnat/dest1034.html

The egoic ray of France is that of Concrete Science and this, working in conjunction with the energy of the fifth zodiacal sign, Leo, has given the French people their intellectual brilliance and their scientific bias. The forces of crystallization pour through Paris which is ruled by Capricorn in its personality and yet the soul of the French nation [73] is nurtured in that great capital through the soul of the city, energized by Virgo and, forget not, that Virgo is the polar opposite of Pisces and the infant Christ in Virgo comes to full flower in Pisces. Here lies the hope of France. You will remember perhaps that some years ago I indicated that from France will come a great psychological or soul revelation which will bring illumination to world thought. If the true Piscean element can be drawn forth and the selfishness and the self-protective interests of the French nation can be offset, France then stands free some day to lead the world spiritually as she has effectively in past history from the more political and cultural aspects, but this can only happen when the personality ray is subordinated to the soul ray and Leo can respond to the Aquarian influence in the coming new era when Aquarius is dominant. The Sun, as the ruler of Leo, made France what she was, irradiating Europe for centuries; but it was the personality and not the spiritual aspect, and her influence at no time was spiritual, as that word should be understood. Esoterically, Pluto, one of the rulers of Pisces, must work, bringing in the death of the personality influence, fostered by Leo; this can be done without any great outer dissolution of the form of the nation through the beneficent influence of Jupiter, the exoteric ruler of Pisces. What is needed in the national life of France is the more spiritual expression of the second Ray of Love-Wisdom, which has in the past led to material success but which can flood the world, via France, once she dies to self. Capricorn, ruling Paris, signifies both death and initiation into the spiritual life, and here lies the choice for France. With the cooperation which Pluto can give in bringing about those conditions which will lead to the revelation of Virgo (ruling the soul of Paris) there is possible - in connection with this powerful and influential country - a [74] contribution to the life of humanity which will be effective in bringing about the new desired conditions in Europe, but France's demand for her personal security must give place to the security of the whole from aggression and evil and fear, and all thought of revenge upon or the dismemberment of other countries in the interests of France will have to end, if the true soul of France is to find expression.
Therefore, the following signs (cosmic energy) and planets transmitting solar and cosmic energies, are the conditioning factors of France in incarnation at the present time:
I would here call your attention to the fact that the astrology which I am emphasizing is that which is concerned with the effective energies - what they are and from whence they come. I would repeat here as I have often done before that I am not concerned with predictive astrology. The coming emphasis in astrology will be upon the available energies and the use the subject makes of them and the opportunity which they present at any given time.
I have given you France somewhat in detail so that you can appreciate the extent of the influences which determine any nation and make it for the time what it is. The combination of Piscean power in the Piscean Age, plus a potent Leo nature, enabled France at one time to express quite phenomenally its innate subjective tendency to save the world (for France is essentially on the Path of a world Savior); this was aided by the brilliant clear vision of the fifth and third rays with their intellectual bias, plus the opportunity offered by Saturn, ruling Paris. This enabled France to stage the great French Revolution and strike one of the major blows for the release of humanity from bondage. This has twice occurred during the Piscean Age: once at the signing of the Magna Charta at Runnymede and again at the French Revolution. The recognition of the importance of the rights of humanity, as a whole, came to [76] the world via France. It marked a climax and high point in the evolution of the nation. Since then Capricorn and Pluto have produced crystallization and the death or obscuration temporarily of the then emerging soul aspect (speaking symbolically) and the note of France has not been a selfless one. The forces of the soul are working, but France is as yet predominantly governed by personality and by the selfish aspects of the Leo influences. France, as yet, matters to herself more than humanity matters and the question is: Can she achieve the terrific task of decentralizing herself, of sacrificing herself for the common good and of relinquishing her dreams for France in the vision of the whole and so tread again more fully the Path of a World Savior? There are as yet no signs of this; when the time to make peace treaties arrives, it will become clearer which way France will go and whether she will work for the peace and security of the whole in love and with wisdom, or for France with intellectual brilliance and selfishness.
Let us briefly look at one or two other countries, so enabling students to make comparisons and understand relationships and future possibilities.
