# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Ashramic Adjustment to Exoteric Living

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1297.html

I have spoken of the evil present in the planet in very simple terms, and there are phases of it to which I have not referred; the interlocking and interpenetrating of the grades of evil are far more numerous and intricate than you surmise.
In summing up, I would say that the present reorientation of the Hierarchy, in relation both to Shamballa and to [690] Humanity, ushers in the cycle of complete defeat of cosmic evil upon our planet, leaving only an isolated and weakened Black Lodge to die a slow death; this permits the purification of human desire to such an extent that "matter will be redeemed by the sacrificial will of Those Who know, by the will-to-good of Those Who are, and by the goodwill of those sons of men who have turned their faces to the light and who in turn reflect that light."
As all disciples know, one of the problems with which they are constantly confronted is an extreme sensitivity to the thought currents of those with whom they are immediately in contact. The more advanced the disciple, the greater is his problem. The theory that if one lives and works on a high level of consciousness one is immune to that which emanates from the lower level does not in practice hold good. The occult law proclaims that the greater can always include the lesser, and just as that is true of the planetary Logos (Who is the sumtotal of all lesser forms within His manifested universe), so the same law applies also to all human beings. The disciple, therefore, can always include that which emanates from those who are below him on the ladder of evolution. The more a disciple is under the influence of the Law of Love, the more easily does he tune in and absorb the thoughts and register the desires of those around him, and particularly of those who are tied to him in the bonds of affection and of karmic relation. As disciples proceed from initiation to initiation, the will aspect fortifies the intellect and directs the expression of the energy of love, and thus the problem lessens, for the initiate learns certain protective rules which are not available to the neophyte. The latter must learn, first of all, how to identify himself with others, as the basis of a higher identification which conditions the senior initiates in the scale of being.
