# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Factors in the World Situation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1184.html

You have, consequently, in the world today:
1. The Forces of Evil, working through Germany and Japan. To date, they are holding their own and they are not yet defeated. They are terrorizing the world. Within [428] their own national borders they do not possess enough people with courage, understanding, or with the ability to think clearly, who hate evil and who can hold to a vision. There is little in either nation to bring assistance to the Forces of Light. The Germans were deceived from the beginning, and a widespread national deception, backed by a terror campaign, argues a general weakness, lack of courage and a natural predilection for evil guidance. The tendency to be led along aggressive, selfish and evil lines has been characteristic of the German mentality for a great length of time. This negative nation, with its arrogant psychology (one of the great paradoxes of the ages), must be taught the ways of positive good, and a courageous championing of righteousness must take the place of the present negative acceptance of evil. With humility and intelligence must the German nation be taught to take a proper place in the community of nations. The Japanese nation, in spite of its great age, must go back into the nursery state; it must be taught, as children are taught, to be social and not anti social, and it will be long before it will be safe to trust this nation. The Italian nation presents no greater problem than does any other nation in the world. It is normal, as are the United Nations; the German nation and the Japanese race are not normal, and must be brought back to normality by careful, kindly, but firm handling, and by applied educational processes.
2. The Forces of Light. I would here correct an impression which exists among esotericists. By this phrase, (the Forces of Light), they are apt to mean that the Hierarchy is literally fighting against the Axis nations. This is not so in the physical sense. The Hierarchy works - as you well know - with the souls of men and with those minds which are so oriented and disposed that they react to soul impression. When I use the expression "the Forces of Light" I mean those enlightened nations upon whom the light of Freedom shines and who will refuse, at all costs, to relinquish that light. There is no freedom in Germany or in [429] Japan. In a lesser sense and for a brief time, there was no freedom in Italy, but Italy must be counted among the enlightened nations, for it could not be held in duress. The Forces of Light comprise those nations (working through their armies and in the diplomatic arena) who are today fighting for the freedom of humanity, for the eternal rights of man, for liberty of conscience, for the position of the individual in any nation, and for freedom of religion or the right of man's self-chosen approach to the spiritual realities. Behind these nations stands the Hierarchy. Freedom is the birthright of mankind, and free will is the highest of the divine characteristics. Freedom is misinterpreted and misused by many, owing to the point in evolution of the mass of humanity, but it is a fundamental, divine principle; and where principles are involved the Hierarchy knows no compromise. There is no spiritual principle behind any of the activities of the Axis Powers, behind German activity or Japanese aggression. Therefore, the Hierarchy does not stand with power or strength behind any of their efforts.
