# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Conflict between Forces of Ancient Origin

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1037.html

Bear in mind that the objective before these groups is [95] to relate the Hierarchy, and that for which it stands, to humanity; to bring into a close rapport the two centers whose energy must eventually be fused and blended into one whole. Perhaps you will grasp the underlying idea with greater clarity if you will remember the personal work which you should be endeavoring to do with yourself. This is, is it not, the effort to fuse and blend the personality and the soul, or the higher Self and the lower selves. To do this you have to realize that the illumination of the mind is a vital and essential factor. There are, therefore, three points to consider: the Soul, the illumined Mind and the Personality. To these three you have to add a consecrated and awakened heart, full of love to all, vibrant with compassion and with understanding. Bear, therefore, these four factors in mind:
This is the personality and individual correspondence to the broader picture and the world factors and the wider undertakings with which humanity is at this time faced. Just as in the life of the individual a man is confronted with the opportunity to function as a disciple in training with a view to initiation, so today humanity is faced in the same way with a similar situation and possibilities. The higher correspondence with which the Hierarchy is occupied at this time, and of which the outline just given is an inadequate analogy, is as follows:
