# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Forces of Restoration

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1197.html

At the stage which we are now passing through, these responsive people fall into three categories:
The visionary dreamer or the well-intentioned but impractical person whose ideas and world plans and suggestions as to the new world order litter the desks of world leaders and of those groups and organizations who are attempting practically to blueprint the future. Their dreams and ideas deal with projects for which the world of today is not ready and will not be ready for several thousand years. It is an easy thing for them to present impossible Utopias which have not the faintest relation to things which are needed today and [460] which could be made possible. The name of these people is legion, and at this time they constitute a definite hindrance. A vision of the impossible is not the type of vision which will keep the people from perishing. Because of an inability to compromise and to face up to things as they are, these people and those whom they influence are landed in despair and disillusionment.
The intelligent people of the world who are actuated by the spirit of goodwill and by the conviction that things must be changed. They are often staggered by the magnitude of the task to be undertaken, and this frequently leads them to take one of three positions:
Those partisan and nationally minded persons who will attempt to exploit the world situation for their own immediate ends and for the benefiting of their particular nation or group. These people, and they are found in every nation, are selfishly motivated; they do not care for humanity as a whole and have no liking or interest in anything or anyone [461] but their political party and the reactionary interests of some national group. They see in the present world situation a grand opportunity to engineer moves which will benefit an individual, a class or a nation. In doing this, they frequently have a wide grasp of affairs and are keen politicians, but all they know is to be used and so implemented that it attains their narrow ends, no matter at what cost to the rest of the world. These people are usually a large majority. Their attitude leads inevitably to trouble and hinders the work of restoration; it handicaps those who are seeking to establish the entire human family in a sounder way of life than heretofore, and to give a saner and wiser motivation to international relationships. These are the people who are the most to be feared at the coming conference at San Francisco. The isolationists in all nations, particularly in the United States, French national idealism, and the obsession of certain factors in the Polish race over boundaries will need watching, as these attitudes can be exploited by the evil and selfish interests which (behind the scenes) are seeking to prevent the world attaining that equilibrium which will permit tranquility. These three groups, however, indicate the successful operation of the Forces of Restoration. These are tentatively beginning their work and preparing the way for a much fuller expression of the intentions of the Spirit of Resurrection, after the coming Full Moon of March and in the three years which lie ahead.
