# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - Work
in the Coming Decades

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1274.html

Toward the end of the second decade of my work, totalitarianism reared anew its most evil head, and perforce, the Hierarchy took sides against this primary principle of evil, though never against any group of human beings. Please [637] note this. The point I seek to make is that the Hierarchy is inflexibly against any demonstration of the principle of non-freedom, no matter what form it takes, but is ever on the side of humanity. The spirit of evil which animated German actions evoked every possible opposition from the Forces of Light and from their source, the Hierarchy. Today this totalitarian evil is expressing itself through the planning of the Russian oligarchy, through the Zionist movement, and through all groups which seek to fetter and imprison the spirit of man; but the people under the sway of this evil influence and the scheming of these evil groups are never regarded in any light different to that of the rest of mankind. They are looked upon as glamored, or as weak and ignorant (which they undoubtedly are), but they are never separated off in the thinking and planning of the Hierarchy from the rest of mankind. The evil must not be permitted or allowed to triumph, but the unhappy and glamored exponents of this evil are loved, along with the rest of mankind. This is a point which is hard for the illogical thinker to understand, but it expresses most truly the attitude of the Christ and of all who serve His cause.
With the focused entrance of greed and of totalitarian ruthlessness into the world arena, much that I had planned and much that all of you were attempting to do, met with frustration; the work of all disciples was in many ways greatly hindered and handicapped, though not from the long range vision, but only from the angle of short range action. I would ask you to have this in mind. The vision stands even when immediate action is blocked.
Today it would appear, from all the indications and from the dominant world trends, that the still unconquered greed of certain of the more powerful nations is undeniably rampant, and that we are therefore facing another period of frustration and of major world difficulty. Feeling against Russia is running high among the Western Powers and is largely her own fault, though it is primarily based upon two main factors - one of them bad and the other good.
The bad reaction is based on the same old triplicity of [638] fear, greed and jealousy and - from the angle of those three phases of selfishness - is entirely justified. That fact, in itself, supplies a major difficulty. Think this out.
The good reaction is based on the frustration of the idea or concept of developing a unified peaceful world - a world in which there would be no war and in which men could live at peace with each other and in security, and in which men everywhere could work, relatively unopposed, towards right human relations. This super-world and this unified humanity is a true ideal, but is not a feasible project.
