# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Task of the New Group of World Servers Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1171.html

This they
must do through their own clear thinking on current matters, by the cultivation of a
receptive spirit, based on a willingness to learn, a readiness to let old preconceptions
go and fixed ideas to disappear under the impact of new truths and new inspiration, and
based also on a determination at all costs to recognize truth and presented spiritual
developments.
I would ask all of you, therefore, to have an open mind, to redouble your belief in the
fact of the spiritual realities, to have faith in the will-to-good of the divine purpose
and to love your fellowmen; and - upon the plane of practical affairs and living - to do
two things: Carry forward your due share in this physical plane war, aiding the armed
forces of the United Nations to wage war to a successful finish, knowing that there are
spiritual realities for which it is worth dying if need be, and that war on evil can be
waged without hate and with right purpose; secondly, plan at the same time for those
practical measures which, after the war is over, will aid the period of reconstruction and
help rehabilitate humanity, and lead to a saner, better, truer way of living.
I would ask you also to take those measures in your individual life and in your
environment, wherever possible, which will help make the work to be done at the time of
the Full Moon in May and in June successful; to use both the Invocations constantly; do
not use them as prayers or employing the energy of desire but as great challenging
demands, employing the power of the will as you can muster it and focus it at a point of
tension. At the time of the Full Moon gather people together for an act of fusion and of
cooperation, thus aiding humanity and throwing your small individual effort behind that of
the Hierarchy. I would ask you to recognize that, as a part of [400] the new group of
world servers and as a person of goodwill you can act as a mediating
factor between humanity and the Hierarchy, bridging the gap between the mass of men
(stunned by suffering, blind to the higher issues, and inert) and the spiritual Group
which is seeking so earnestly to bring them help and life. I would have you use, with all
the power which in you lies, the creative imagination as you endeavor to do this and to
believe that the sincerity of your purpose and the love of your hearts can and will help
make possible the Great Approach and so hasten the Great Release. I would have you (from
the time you receive this communication) think deeply on what I have said, to walk
silently in the light of your souls, to radiate love, to seek clarity of vision and then,
when needed, to speak to others with power and understanding.
