# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Factors in the World Situation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1185.html

Among all these are thousands who stand bewildered, sensing the truth but feeling helpless in the face of the gigantic horror which the evil gang now ruling Germany has precipitated upon humanity. They tend to right thinking but are still the prey of the unscrupulous and the selfish. When their thinking has been guided into right lines through a process of right presentation of the situation, they will constitute a powerful asset to the Forces of Light.
Such is the situation with which the Hierarchy and humanity is today faced. The strength of the Forces of Light is growing; the power of the Forces of Darkness may be waning but is still vastly strong - upon the physical plane. Their main hold is upon the minds of men and that is exceedingly potent and unweakened, for it is aided by the mild, unthinking person, by the bewildered, the pacifist, the appeaser and the isolationist. The idealism of this group is turned to the aid of Germany by the skillful evil workers. The German armies are still unbeaten; central Europe is a mighty fortress, dominated by the arch enemy of mankind, sitting on his mountain-top. There, symbolically, he is to be found, the initiator into evil conditions, and into slavery. The armies of the Lord stand poised, and victory will be theirs when there is complete unity of purpose, concentrated attention upon right human relations, and a [431] spread of idealistic aspiration to all who are fighting this battle for freedom. For this unity of purpose all the enlightened people of the world must work. It is not yet adequately present.
Let us now turn to the work of the Hierarchy and to the event for which all initiates and disciples are now preparing - the coming Wesak Festival.
