# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Conflict between Forces of Ancient Origin

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1033.html

According, therefore, to the condition of the sensitive bodies of the planet, of nations and of individuals, so will be their reaction to the five kinds of inflowing forces. The Shamballa force, for instance, in making its impact upon first ray types, and upon the other ray types on that line of major energy - the third, fifth and seventh ray types - evokes widely differing results than when it makes an impact upon the second ray line of energy; the results of the impact of Shamballa energy upon the first ray individuals and nations can be potent in the extreme. This impact, being relatively a new one to humanity, evokes in the world today all the political and organizational changes which are so prevalent and so disturbing. There is little that humanity can do about this except endeavor to balance this first ray display of energy with second ray or hierarchical force. This latter energy - working through the world religions and the men and women who respond to the love influence - can change methods (though not the purpose or the direction) by pouring in the love force.
Again, that force which we regard as emanating from the strictly human center, the third ray type of energy, is of the third or creative order; and in these three energies you have, in reality, the expression of the three major centers of the planetary Logos. The first or will energy is, as you know, focused in Sanat Kumara, the Ancient of Days (as He is called in the Christian Bible), the Lord of Shamballa, Who is the embodiment of the Personality of the planetary Logos. The love force is focused through the two great spiritual Lords of the Hierarchy, the Buddha and the [87] Christ, Who are both embodiments of the heart center of the planetary Logos, for the Buddha represents the twelve-petalled lotus in the head, of which the Christ represents the counterpart, the twelve-petalled lotus of the heart center. This is a fact seldom grasped or even mentioned. The petals of the throat center are represented at this time by certain of the leading world rulers, whose activity is responsible for the rapid creation of the new world with its rapidly altering civilizations and culture. These thoughts will provide much that you would do well to consider.
The fourth type of force, which is responsible for the state of world affairs at this time, is that of the Jews; they, as a whole, constitute the solar plexus of the planetary Logos; their problem is being used today to focus, qualify and condition the world feeling-nature and the emotional reactions of the sensitive nature of humanity and of the planetary Logos. Forget not that the Personality of our planetary Logos is not yet perfect, hence the fact that His body of manifestation, the planet, is not reckoned as being one of the sacred planets. Through the Jewish people throughout the world, feeling - sympathetic or antagonistic, expressive of love of conditioned by hate - is being gathered to a focus in the planetary solar plexus center, preparatory to a great and permanent change. It is for this reason that I have said to some of my pupils that when humanity will have solved correctly the Jewish problem, and when it has been resolved in a humanitarian and sound manner, then the energy of the planetary solar plexus center will have been raised to the heart and a great transmutation will have taken place.
The Dark or Materialistic Forces correspond in their entirety to the energies of the sacral center of the planet, dealing with the generation of forms, and their work is to keep the direction of planetary interest upon the form side of divine expression. They are concerned with the life of matter itself, with its magical usage, and with that which is regarded as dark because, for humanity at its present stage of development, that divine aspect should have lost its major [88] hold and should lie behind "in the darkness of that which has been outgrown and which has no further hold upon the son of God". You therefore have the following tabulation expressing what I have sought above to make clear to you.
