# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Interlude between War and Peace

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1164.html

1. Study and reflect upon the many proposals which are being made by world leaders and thinkers as to the coming world rehabilitation. It will be necessary to plan your reading [383] and to know what is being discussed. Cultivate an intelligent opinion, based on goodwill and on what you, as a result of study, feel should be done. Then discuss the ideas in your home, among your friends and in your environment without fear or favor. It will help you to do so if you regard such discussions as a service and believe that your interests and enthusiasm cannot fail to have an effect.
2. If possible, gather people together to discuss and study the coming world order, or cooperate with those who are already doing so. Look upon this meeting together as a definite contribution to the moulding of public opinion and as a method of building up that reservoir of thought power which can be of use to those whose task it is to rebuild. If only two people cooperate with you in this matter, the effort will not be lost or futile, for you will be helping to change the content of world thought and impressing other minds, even if you do not know it.
3. Extend your interest to many countries and try to understand the diverse problems of those countries. Many know people in these foreign lands, and lists can be made of their names and addresses. As soon as the war is over and the lines of communication are again open, you can seek to reach these people, attempt to locate them through any available agencies, and then, when found, strengthen them with the knowledge of your goodwill or interest and by cooperating with them during the period of reconstruction. No matter how slight has been your contact with them in the past, foster it by thought and prayer, and later by direct communication. Thus a great network of relationship will be set up which will serve to weld a new world into one harmonious and understanding whole.
4. Pray constantly, and to your prayers add meditation and reflection. Behind the world pattern and structure stands its Originator, its Planner, its motivating Energy, its central Will, its living Creator, its God. Seek by prayer to reach that central Will and point of Life, thus blending yourself [384] with the sensed divine objective and identifying your will with the Divine Will. This central Will-to-Good can be reached by the man whose own will-to-good is a living, practical experience, and the more that goodwill is expressed, the more easily will you discover and cooperate with the divine Plan and follow the guiding hand of God in world affairs. The real work of reconstruction will be done by those who, in the silence of their own hearts, have walked with God and learnt His ways.
5. Find two other people to work with you. There is a unique potency in this triple relationship. God Himself, so say all the world Scriptures, works as a Trinity of goodness, and you can, in your tiny sphere, do the same, finding two other people of like mind with you to form a goodwill triangle of light and spiritual interplay. Each of the two who cooperate with you can, in their turn, do the same, and thus a great network of goodwill can spread throughout the world. Through it the Forces of Light will be able to work and you, in your place and sphere, will have aided and helped.
6. Find out and study the methods, techniques and objectives of the various groups and organizations which are interested in world reconstruction. You may not agree with all of them or with their plans and modes of working, but all are needed. The types of men are many, the races and conditions are varied, and the problems to be solved will call for innumerable ways of working. All can play their part if based on real goodwill and if fanaticism is absent. The fanatic is a danger wherever he is found, for he sees only one side of a question and is unable to appreciate the various points of view. He will not admit that all are needed. Cooperation is the key to expressed goodwill, and in the future period of rehabilitation cooperation will be the outstanding need. Keep a record of all such groups, their leaders, objectives and programs. It will prove useful when the war is over. Establish helpful and friendly relations with them to the best of your ability. [385]
