# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Effects of the Externalization

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1292.html

Already the centers in London and in New York are showing signs of life, and disciples are active in both places and along all lines of human expression. The center in Geneva is also active, but not so thoroughly and inclusively; it waits for a greater calm and a firmer sense of security in Europe.
The center in Darjeeling is what is termed occultly "vibrating", but this is in response to the relative nearness and propinquity of the Himalayan Brotherhood; whilst in Tokyo there is small activity as yet, and what there is is of no great moment. The work at this center will actually be brought into being through the work of the Triangles. By that I do not mean that it will be a center of the Triangle work, but that the concentrated meditative activity of the people engaged in the Triangle activities will magnetically draw out that which must appear when a center is organized. They are in fact creating the needed atmosphere, and that is ever a preliminary step. Once the atmosphere or the air in which to breathe and move is existent, then the living form can appear.
Objectively, therefore, the second ray work of teaching is the first to be organized. Subjectively, the first ray workers are already active, for the work of the first ray with its disturbing, and destroying activity prepares the way; pain and disruption ever precede birth, and the agents of the first ray have been working for nearly two hundred years. The agents of the second ray started their preparation around the year 1825 and moved outward in force soon after 1860. From that date on, great concepts and new ideas, and the modern ideologies and arguments for and against aspects of the truth, have characterized modern thought and produced the present [679] mental chaos and the many conflicting schools and ideologies, with their attendant movements and organizations; out of all these, order and truth and the new civilization will emerge. This civilization will emerge as the result of mass thinking; it will no longer be a civilization "imposed" by an oligarchy of any kind. This will be a new phenomenon and one for which the Hierarchy has had to wait, prior to reappearing. Had the Hierarchy come before this era of thought and of massed discussion and the fight to further creative ideas, the tenets and the truths for which the Hierarchy stands could be regarded as being also "imposed" upon humanity, and therefore as infringing human freedom. This will not now be the case, and the Hierarchy will come forth into exoteric manifestation because humanity has, of its own free will, developed a quality analogous to that of the Hierarchy and therefore magnetic to that spiritual organization. Goodwill will draw forth from its holy secret hiding place the Exponents of Love, and thus the new world will come into being.
