# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Rider from the secret place...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1115.html

Here we come up against one of the oldest traditions [269] in the world and of the ancient East; one, too, which finds its counterpart in the New Testament, where the Coming One is seen coming forth to the rescue of the people "riding upon a white horse." In the Occident we have for long thought in terms of the "Lamb, slain from the foundations of the world," and in this statement lies a profound astrological truth. It refers to that great round of the zodiac (a period of approximately 25,000 years) in which the sun passes through all the twelve signs of the zodiac. The period to which reference is made started in the sign Aries, the ram. The Orient, however, harks still further back, to a much earlier period and to a still more ancient date, remote in the night of time, when the greater world cycle started in the sign Sagittarius, the Archer. The symbol of this is sometimes (towards the latter part of the cycle) depicted as an archer, riding on a horse and (in the early part of the cycle) as a centaur, half man and half horse. Both refer to an emerging revelation of the consciousness of Deity as revealed through some Great Divine Expression, through some manifesting Son of God. The point to bear in mind is that this Rider on the white horse is no extra-planetary Entity or Life, but is essentially One like unto ourselves - human and animal combined as are we all, but fused with divinity and inspired from on high, informed by some cosmic and divine Principle, as Christ was informed with the Love of God and carried the revelation of love to man. The Rider is one of our humanity Who has reached a predestined goal and Who - for very love and understanding of man - has remained for ages in the secret place of revelation (as it is esoterically called), waiting until His hour comes around again and He can then issue forth to lead His people to triumphant victory. This coming One is on the Path of a world Savior just as the more potent Lives, the Lords of Liberation, are on the Path of world Service. They issue forth via that highest spiritual center wherein the Will of God is held in solution or custody, for gradual release or revelation as humanity can arrive at the needed point of understanding response and receptivity. Though They can [270] be reached relatively easily, it must be through the massed intent of the many focused minds. The Rider on the white horse can be reached by the individual aspirant if he can raise his consciousness adequately high. This Rider comes forth (from the center wherein the Love of God is held for distribution) as the human center (which we call humanity) becomes attuned to true love and can identify itself with all men, responding freely and without any inhibition to divine Love - which is wisdom, understanding, and effective, skillful activity.
When this invocation is rightly used and voiced by an adequate number of people, those who can in some measure employ the enlightened will may succeed in reaching the Lords of Liberation and produce, as a result, a phenomenal intervention of some kind. Those who work more emotionally will reach the Rider from the secret place and may bring Him forth to save and lead the masses of people. Are there enough focused minds and intense attentive hearts to reach the two centers where wait Those Who can aid at this time? That is the question. It will happen when the three centers - humanity, the spiritual Hierarchy of the planet, and the "place where the will of God lies hidden" (called in the ancient scriptures Shamballa) - are aligned and en rapport with each other. There will then be established a direct relation between all three, and a direct channel for the inflow of liberating force. This has happened only once before in the history of the race.
Owing to the fact that mankind is so weakened by pain, strain and suffering, the probability is that it will not be deemed wise for the Lords of Liberation directly to contact humanity. They will more probably do three things:
