# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Organising the Ashrams into Form on Earth

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1284.html

The division of labor is here of great interest. In my June message for 1948, I referred to the five specialized energies which were at that time released to carry forward their [660] impersonal task. Each of these energies is concerned with the desired organization, for it must ever be remembered that though the organization which we are considering is concerned with the interior or subjective work of the Hierarchy, the repercussions and the resultant effects will take place on earth, with physical plane effects, because the old occult truism "as above, so below" will be rapidly and objectively demonstrated. This result and the effects produced will constitute one of the modes whereby the Hierarchy will prove its factual presence on earth.
The Ashram of the Master K.H. is already assuming an increased stimulating potency, but it will nevertheless be one of the last to manifest objectively on the physical plane. The mission of that Ashram is to produce the energy which will make possible and definite the reappearance of the Christ. That reappearance is the major preoccupation of the Master K.H. and His group of initiates and disciples. The first step taken by the Ashram was embodied - as far as all of you are concerned - in the pamphlet entitled The Reappearance of the Christ (Wesak Message, May 1947). To this must be added the vitalization and the stimulation of the two-thousand-year-old thought-forms which men, down the centuries, have created in anticipation of His coming or advent. The movement toward expectancy and preparation is now rapidly gaining momentum. This was the first concrete result of the combined desire of this second ray Ashram. However, the work being done in this Ashram is more definitely concerned with three lines of activity. These are:
Within the second ray Ashram of the Master K.H. and His affiliated groups (such as the Ashram for which I am responsible) it is the energy of wisdom which is being effectively used. It might be said that this dual energy, hitherto a fused and blended energy, is today working as a true duality. The energy of wisdom is active within all the Ashrams (on all rays and under all the Masters); the energy of love is directed primarily towards the third great planetary center, Humanity, stimulating the aura of that mass of living units so that their "magnetic appeal will be the outstanding quality of their divine approach." The directing Agents for this dual activity are the Master K.H. and a chosen group of His senior initiates and disciples, of whom I am not one, because I have another task committed to me.
The Master K.H. is therefore constantly in close association with the Christ, the Head of the Hierarchy. Christ is today, with the aid of the Lord of the World and the Buddha, preparing Himself for the most difficult task with which He has ever been confronted. It is not a matter of the Christ issuing forth from the High Place where He is today to be found, and suddenly appearing among men; it is not a case of His taking infant form and growing into His work with advancing years; it is not a case of His being instantly recognized and acclaimed by millions of miserable human beings awaiting liberation. None of these ideas or hopes forms any part of His plan, nor are they possible. No Member of the Hierarchy, and certainly not its Supreme Head, attempts to bring about results which are doomed to failure; presented thus, they would be bound to fail, because the point of sensitivity of humanity makes [662] failure inevitable - if success is expected along these most ordinary lines.
