# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Fiat of the Lord go forth...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1118.html

In the final stanzas (which we need not take phrase by phrase, as their significance is sufficiently clear) we have plainly put before us the methods whereby humanity can play its part and do its share in aiding all those who are cooperating with the Forces of Light to bring this planetary war to an end.
Look for a moment at the four words which embody the thought of what can be done by men to bring to fruition the mission of the Coming One, the Rider from the secret place. We are told that Light and Love and Power and Death must be invoked to fulfil the purpose of the Coming One. Here we come right down to the practical theme of man's individual part in the processes of liberation. Here we are concerned with that which - within humanity itself - needs evocation in order to produce right cooperation, right preparation and right understanding. Four potencies within the soul of man are available for his individual use in helping the Forces of Light - potencies he shares with all men to a greater or less degree, according to the expressive power of the soul. They are potencies which are not innate in the lower self, but only in the higher. The lower self reflects only distorted forms of the higher divine energies. This is a point to be carefully noted. Of Light and Love I can say but little to you. To esoteric students, these words are so familiar as to be somewhat meaningless, and only those [277] who can walk in the light, and whose major reaction is love of humanity, will comprehend the significance and the interrelation of these four words.
Light, with which to see the new vision, is needed by all. This will probably not be an intensification of any earlier vision, no matter how apparently spiritual, but something so entirely new that you will need all the light that is in you, and a trained insight, if you are to recognize it when contacted.
Love, which is not emotion or sentiment, and which is not related to feeling (which is a distortion of true love), but is the fixed determination to do what is best for the whole of humanity, or for the group (if the larger concept is not possible to you), and to do this at any personal cost and by means of the uttermost sacrifice. Only those who truly love their fellowmen can see the issues clear and can grasp the inevitability of the things which must be done to end the present rule of terror and so usher in the new rule of peace. Peace is not the goal for our race or time, no matter what many men think. This is a cycle of steadily growing activity, with the aim in view of establishing right human relations, intelligently carried forward. Such activity and intense change is not consonant with what is usually understood as peace. Peace has relation to the emotional side of life and was the goal in Atlantean days, where peace was a great spiritual issue. But peace and the love of peace can be a deadening soporific, and are so at this time. It is usually selfish in purpose, and people long for peace because they want to be happy. Happiness and peace will come when there are right human relations. Peace and war are not a true pair of opposites. Peace and change, peace and movement, are the real ones. War is but an aspect of change, and has its roots deep in matter. The peace usually desired and discussed concerns material peace, and in every case is related to the personality, whether it is the individual personality or that of humanity as a whole. Therefore I deal not with peace, but am concerned with love, which oft [278] disturbs the equilibrium of matter and material circumstance, and can consequently work against so-called peace.
