# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - Let
the Lords of Liberation issue forth...

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1114.html

Who are the Lords of Liberation, and from whence do They come? All the ideas and concepts which control human life and have given rise to our civilization have started as emanations from certain great Lives, Who are Themselves an expression of a divine Idea. The note They strike and the quality They emanate reaches out and makes an impact upon the most developed of the sons of men found at any particular time upon the Earth. These then proceed to make the sensed idea their own and to familiarize the thinkers of their time with the formulated concept. In this way great motivating, divine purposes become controlling factors in human progress. It is in this way that the basic urge to liberation and to freedom has slowly and consistently dominated human endeavor, leading first of all to the struggle for individual freedom and liberation (with the incidental ideal of heaven, of initiation and of spiritual attainment), and gradually molding human thought to such an extent that the greater ideal takes shape. The freedom of humanity and the liberation of its power to be self-determining (which is an aspect of freedom) has become the dearest ideal and the best thought of the thinkers in all nations. In the last analysis, it is this interference with individual and group freedom which is the worst sin of the evil men who seek at this time to enslave the weaker nations and bend them to the rule of Germany, depriving them of [267] their national assets and means of subsistence, and wresting from them - by force and fear - their dearest possessions, liberty of life and conscience.
All great ideas have their emanating Sources of life, therefore, and These are called in the ancient invocation with which we are occupied "Lords of Liberation." They are three in number, and one of Them is closer to the Earth and to humanity than are the other two, and it is He Who can be reached by those who comprehend the nature of freedom and who desire beyond all things to be liberated and to see all the oppressed and enslaved people of the world also liberated.
Every move of an enlightened consciousness (such as that of a Lord of Liberation) towards humanity produces a corresponding shift or move on the part of men. This in itself constitutes a definite problem, because no such move can be made by a Lord of Liberation unless humanity is ready to raise its ideal of freedom to a higher level of expression. Unless this world war has in it the seeds of a revelation of a higher human freedom, and unless humanity is ready to express this higher freedom to the best of its ability, it will not be possible for the Lords of Liberation to take action. They cannot be moved by prayer, demand and invocation alone. Such demand must have behind it the ideal of a newer freedom and a greater liberty for man. In the abrogation of the French idealism, summed up in the words - "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity" - the attention of the whole world was focused on the theme of liberty, and the symbolism of the event is of far greater import than has yet been grasped. France has not relinquished the ideal of human liberty which she originally brought (on a large scale) to the attention of mankind. Her action, under the influence of the enemies of human freedom, simply focused the danger with which humanity was confronted, and brought it emphatically to the attention of humanity, numbed by disaster, and bewildered by the accumulated weight of misery. By so doing, the problem was simplified for the untrained mind. It also produced, spiritually speaking, a direct line of [268] communication between men who know the significance of freedom and long for human release, and the Lords of Liberation Who are responsible for implanting this innate desire in humanity.
The reason why these Lords of Liberation are the first mentioned in the stanza is that They are essentially related to desire-will, and are therefore the more easily contacted by man. The place from which They issue forth to the aiding of humanity is a certain area of the divine Consciousness which is open to the human sense of awareness, if sufficiently enlightened and selfless. You can see from the above remark how the effective use of invocation is therefore dependent upon the point of spiritual development of the one who seeks the aid of true prayer and invocation. One thing which should be grasped anent all these great Lives is that what is commonly called "worship" is abhorred by Them. Worship, the power to adore and the sense of awe (which is one of the highest aspects of fear) are not desired by Them. Such attitudes are emotional in origin and based upon the sense of duality, and therefore upon feeling. These Lives are embodiments of service and can be reached by true servers with the appeal of service. Bear this in mind. As man progresses upon the Path he forgets worship; he loses all sense of fear, and adoration fails to engross his attention. All these attitudes are obliterated by the realization of an overpowering love and its consequent interplay and tendency to increase identification. The Lords of Liberation can be reached, therefore, by the call of the world servers, and They will then issue forth through the agency of One of Them, Who will unify the energies of all Three, and so produce those conditions which will bring about effective and recognized freedom. How They will do this is not for us to say; the most probable method will be through the over-shadowing of some man, or some group of men, so that they will be inspired to bring about the victory of liberty.
