# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Ashramic Adjustment to Exoteric Living

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1300.html

The ordinary devoted person, who constantly pledges and dedicates himself to the Christ or to the Masters in a spirit of adoration, will not be chosen for this specific training. Their own attitudes and development come violently [696] between them and their objective. The man who forgets about himself, and who is more interested in helping unhappy human beings, but who is nevertheless staunchly convinced of the factor of the unseen worlds, is the man for whom search is at this time being made.
When these men and women are found, the work of the discovering initiate is to see to it that information comes to the aspirant in some form or another anent the hierarchical Plan, concerning the reappearance of the Christ (under some name familiar to the aspirant's religious background), and about the fundamental and needed occult truths - with particular emphasis upon the Law of Cause and Effect, and secondarily upon the Law of Rebirth. The Law of Cause and Effect is of far greater importance than the Law of Rebirth, because it necessitates action upon the part of the aspirant, and that action inevitably conditions the future. There is nothing he can do about the Law of Rebirth but submit to it and be grateful that opportunity continues to present itself.
As regards the many other adjustments which Members of the Hierarchy in all Their many differing grades will have to make in what might be called Their personality lives and habits, I have naught to say. I know well the questions which will arise in your minds, and I would like to touch upon one or two of them. For instance, some of you are asking:
