# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Cycle of Conferences

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1191.html

March 1945
The three months of March, April and May in this year mark a moment in time of major significance in our planetary history. I refer to the Easter Full Moon, celebrated on March 28th, the Wesak Full Moon, which falls this year on April 27th, and the Full Moon of June - Christ's "Unique Occasion" as it has been called - which falls on May 26th. From the standpoint of both the Hierarchy and Humanity, the events during these few weeks of spiritual and mundane import (focused through these three Festival Moons of Aries, Taurus and Gemini) will be of stupendous effect. What is done during this time by the Members of the spiritual Hierarchy of our planet (Who face a major test of Their hierarchical power, not a test of Their love), what is accomplished by the disciples working in the world at this time, and also by the new group of world servers, can and will determine the destiny of man for centuries to come. Even those who have no knowledge of occult matters or of human fate or of the effective enterprise of human free will [446] (esoterically understood) stand today with bated breath, waiting to see what will happen and towards which goal or goals human thinking and planning will be directed.
The masses of mankind everywhere have only one desire - tranquility. I use not the word "peace," because it has such a misleading connotation. Thinking men and women in every country stand with massed intent, determined, if possible, to take those steps which will ensure peace on Earth, through the expression of goodwill. Note that phrasing. The working disciples throughout the world are struggling with every means at their disposal to spread the gospel of sacrifice, because only upon sacrifice can world stability be safely founded - the sacrifice of selfishness. In those words is summed up the demand being made on those whose responsibility it is to determine policies (national and international) and to take those steps which will establish right human relations. The Hierarchy stands - no longer watching and waiting, but acting today with impelling wisdom and fixed decision in order to strengthen the hands of Their workers in every field of human activity (political, educational and religious) so that they may take right action and correctly influence human thinking.
A powerful first ray activity - the activity of will or purpose - is swinging into action. The Christ, as the Leader of the Forces of Light, has empowered the Ashrams of the Masters upon this first Ray of Power to strengthen the hands of all disciples in the field of government and of political arrangement in every nation; to enlighten, if possible, the various national legislatures by whatever means may be needed, so that the potency of their words, the wisdom of their planning, and the breadth of their thinking may prove so effective that the "Cycle of Conferences and of Councils," now being initiated by the statesmen of the world, may be under the direct guidance (again if possible) of Those in the Council Chamber at Shamballa Who know what is the Will of God. The selfishness of the little minds in the various legislatures of the world must in some way be offset. That is the problem. I wonder if you can grasp the [447] significance of this happening? Down the ages, individual statesmen and rulers have from time to time been responsive to the influence of that spiritually supreme Council; but it has been the responsiveness of the individual disciple who has worked alone and unaided and who has faced, (or experienced) defeat as often, if not oftener, than he has experienced victory. Today, in the planning now going forward in connection with the various international conferences and councils of which you all know, the spiritual effort (for the first time in human history) is to bring all of them, as functioning groups, under the direct impact of the energy which motivates and actuates that place where the Will of God is known and the purposes of divinity are defined and projected. This means that each of the coming world conferences (and there will necessarily be many) will have a greater and far more extensive effect than would otherwise be the case; it means, however, that the risks involved and the clash of minds will also be far greater. This is a point which you should bear in mind as you study and read reports of these various conferences.
Forget not that divine energy must make its impact upon human minds; these minds are the only available instrument - in their aggregated effect - through which the Will of God can express itself; they are necessarily responsive to the stimulating and energizing results of that impact, and this will evoke results suited to the type of mind affected. Response will be compatible with the quality and the intention of those minds. Where goodwill is present, and where there is unselfish intention and a broad point of view, those qualities will be strengthened and endowed with potency; where selfishness rules, where isolationism and separativeness are present, and where there is the intention to gain individual and national ends instead of those international purposes which will profit all humanity, those qualities will equally gain in strength.
