# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza II

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1113.html

Thought, desire, activity - such is the history of human vision and dream. Down the ages, from the very night of time, man has dreamed, expectant of divine revelation and of divine intervention. When all else seems to fail, men look to God. Again and again in the history of the race, the vision has taken form and the dream has materialized upon the wings of powerful desire and demand. Again and again, God has revealed and sent His Messengers and Representatives to aid and guide humanity. But this happens only when the demand is adequately voiced and the need has cried to high heaven. Never yet has the response failed. Again and again lately, the nations of the world have been called to prayer, and this proclaimed appeal of millions cannot be disregarded or remain negligible. An answer must be forthcoming, though it may not take the same form as of old, because man is today - in spite of appearances - more capable of handling his own affairs and determining consciously his own events. No matter how unrealized, back of all these demands and prayers in the many Christian countries, lies a subtle, deep seated conviction that the return of Christ is imminent; there is widespread acceptance of the concept that the Presence of the Son of God can be evoked and that He must come to the assistance of His people. No matter what the dogmatic interpretation or the theological idealism, some form of this belief lies behind the cry of the millions.
Will this demand from the hearts of men induce the return of the Christ of Galilee? Will it bring about the emergence into manifestation of some great Son of God Who will embody perhaps another and unknown aspect of God's life and quality? Will it perhaps produce the embodiment of another divine revelation, and - just as the Buddha expressed the Wisdom of God and Christ revealed to us the Love of God - is it not possible that He Who may come will unfold to us the nature of the Will or Purpose of God, thus presenting that will-to-good which must be called into [265] activity if the evil will-to-power is to be swept from the Earth. I present this possibility to your attention and would ask you to think about it. Thus, if this should prove the correct result of all invocation and prayer, we shall have the balancing of the personality will, of material selfishness and acquisitiveness, and the selfless will which seeks to aid the whole of humanity. The will of the lower self and the will of the Self or Soul will be brought into conflict with each other, with humanity throwing the weight of its influence upon one side or the other.
When I speak of throwing the weight of human influence upon one side or another, I refer not alone to thought power and to what so many euphemistically call "work on mental levels." I refer to the conscious activity of the whole man, working mentally, emotionally and most emphatically physically also. Only those, therefore, who are integrated personalities can work in this manner, and herein lies a difficulty. Those people today who work only mentally or who sit and send thoughts of love broadcast into the world, and who bask thus in the beauty of their own idealism (making frequently no adequate balancing physical effort to bring this present evil situation to an end through right choice, sacrifice and strenuous service), are in reality of no service at all to any except themselves. There are those who send thoughts of love to the group of evil men who are responsible for world disaster, believing thereby to influence them for good. I would remind them that love is essentially an impersonal potency or energy, dependent for its effect upon the type of form which it contacts and upon which it makes an impact. Pouring, therefore, upon the selfish materialistic nature, it will only enhance desire and promote increased acquisitive aggression, and thus foster the lower nature and distort the true expression of love, leading to increased evil activity. Pouring upon the selfless, the pure and the disinterested, it will foster reality and true love. These are points which should be remembered at this time by the well-intentioned but occultly ignorant server. [266]
Let us now proceed to the analysis of the three stanzas or verses. The first of these refers to the waiting attentive group of spiritual Lives who seek to aid when right demand coincides with right time. The second stanza refers to humanity and its reactions, and to the possibility of interplay between the two groups - of spiritual Lives and men. The third indicates methods and results. We will take each phrase or expressed idea separately, for each carries its own import and all of them possess several significances. With all the meanings I cannot deal, but will present the simplest and the most important.
