# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Work of the Hierarchy in the Immediate Future

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1170.html

During the past six years I have given you two Stanzas of a Great Invocation. The first one ran as follows:
Let the Forces of Light bring illumination to mankind. Let the Spirit of Peace be spread abroad. May men of goodwill everywhere meet in a spirit of cooperation. [397] May forgiveness on the part of all men be the keynote at this time. Let power attend the efforts of the Great Ones. So let it be and help us to do our part.
This expressed the normal, largely unconscious, invocative cry of humanity. It summed up in itself the desire of all men everywhere for peace, for goodwill and cooperation. It was generally popular and was and still is very widely used. It was fairly easily understood and its outstanding note was peace. It was used as a prayer by the majority and not as a challenging demand as had been intended; it did not, therefore, prove adequately effective in arresting the onward march of evil. It does, however, preserve the form which can and will evoke eventually the Spirit of Peace. This evocation will bring to humanity that stimulation and active desire to participate in the expression of goodwill which will render world peace an effective outcome of wise action and the establishment of right human relations. Just as the Great Lord of Love and Son of God, the Christ, used as His vehicle of expression on earth, the form of the Master Jesus, so this great extra-planetary Life, the Spirit of Peace, can be enabled, on a higher turn of the spiral, to use as His vehicle of expression, the form of the Christ, the Prince of Peace; thus His stupendous energies will be stepped down through the medium of the Lord of Love and become available to the mass of men.
I gave you later another Stanza of the Invocation, of great power which was suited to the conditions of war - a war which proved inevitable and unavoidable. This last Invocation was not so popular and not nearly so easily understood and for this there was very good reason. It was an invocation intended to evoke the Forces of Life just as the previous one invoked the Forces of Light and Love. It could only be successfully used by disciples, advanced thinkers and the Hierarchy itself. It was, however, given out to the public so as to familiarize them as far as possible with the concepts of liberation and life and in an effort to anchor upon Earth [398] a new point of focus through which life could be made to flow. This effort has not been totally unsuccessful.
At the time of the Full Moon of May and of June, it will be advisable to use both these Invocations and thus to fuse and blend into one united invocation the massed intent of humanity as a whole and the enlightened purpose of the disciples and the Hierarchy. This fusion of the two groups - Humanity and the Hierarchy - may then suffice to sound out such a potent call that life may be released on Earth instead of death and the love of God play its active part in the reconstruction of world affairs. If this can be successfully accomplished, two great revelations may then be speeded on their way:
Such is another of the goals confronting the Hierarchy at this time. Such is the will of God for humanity and such is the intent and purpose of Shamballa. When the massed purpose of the Custodians of the Will of God and the massed intent of the souls of men can be synchronized, then the Great Approach will become inevitable and the Great Release will automatically follow.
