# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Influence of the Rays
Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1018.html

In the same connection, among the lower aspects of the sixth ray are to be found all forms of dogmatic, authoritative religion as expressed by the organized and orthodox churches. All formulated theologies are the lower expression of the higher spiritual truths because they embody the mind reactions of the religious man, his confidence in his own personal mind deductions and the surety that he is obviously right. They do not embody the spiritual values as they truly exist. Consequently the dreadful nature of the lower expressions of the sixth ray and the control by the forces of separateness (which are ever the outstanding characteristic of the lower sixth ray activity) can be seen [40] nowhere more potently than in religious and Church history with its hatreds and bigotry, its pomp and luxurious appeal to the outer ear and eye, and its separateness from all other forms of faith as well as its internal dissensions, its protesting groups and its cliques and cabals. The Church has wandered far from the simplicity which is in Christ. Theologians have lost (if they ever possessed it) the "mind that is in Christ" and the outstanding need of the Church today is to relinquish theology, to let go all doctrine and dogma and to turn upon the world the light that is in Christ, and thus demonstrate the fact of Christ's eternal livingness, and the beauty and the love which it can reflect from its contact with Him, the founder of Christianity but not of Churchianity.
I generalize. There are those in the Church today who do express all that I have stated and who are reflections in the truest sense of the living Christ. They relegate theology and authority to their rightful place and regard the discussions of theologians as simply expressions of perhaps needed mental gymnastics and as incentives to thought, but they do not regard them as conditioning factors, determining man's salvation or not. They know that man's salvation is determined by the processes of evolution and is not a question of ultimate achievement but simply one of time; they know that the life within a man will bring him ultimately to his goal and that the experiences and the type of incarnation will inevitably lead him to "his desired haven." His salvation is not determined by his acceptance of some dogma, formulated by men who have lost their sense of proportion (and consequently their, sense of humor) and who deem themselves capable of interpreting the mind of God for their fellowmen.
