# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Practical Steps in the Reconstruction Work

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1139.html

In the past I have outlined for you the general program and the hoped-for objectives. I have given you much information and have indicated need and its possible solution. I have given you practical suggestions as to procedures and methods, I have asked - as I ask today - for your cooperation, and I ask it on behalf of the Forces of Light, of the spiritual Hierarchy and of distressed humanity.
The present world crisis could be shortened if the spiritually minded people lived up to their inner belief and knowledge. The task of unifying the men and women of goodwill is today infinitely more difficult than it was before the war. It can only be done if each servant of the Hierarchy thinks clearly, loves intelligently and serves to the utmost. I make no plea. I have pleaded much with all of you in the past, and the effort which resulted, though not a complete failure, was not adequately strong enough to offset the forces [326] of evil, focused in Germany, Japan and - to a much smaller extent - in Italy.
This last statement (which I have made in other writings) has evoked resentment in the minds of those who believe that the Forces of Light must love so indiscriminately that their work on the side of evolution is negated, and that effort to promote the development of the human consciousness is rendered completely futile or should be held in abeyance until the fight is over. I would here point out that if the Forces of Light - aided by you - did nothing to influence the minds of men, the forces of materialism and of evil would triumph. Humanity would then be spiritually defeated and its evolution would be set back for an indefinite period. I would here call your attention to the words of my great Master and yours: "By their fruits ye shall know them." I would remind you that there would be no world war today if Germany had not marched on Poland. The cause of the widespread cruelty, terror, murder and agony rests squarely on the shoulders of the seven men in Germany.
Had the aspirants and the disciples of the world realized the situation earlier, and had they worked more whole-heartedly, the present catastrophe could have been held within bounds; it could have been retained and the problem worked out upon the inner planes of thought and desire, and could there have been transmuted and the needed readjustments made. But they failed to understand, and the storm broke upon the physical plane.
The next twelve months will be decisive in human affairs. By the end of 1942, chaos and difficulty will still be present, but the sound of the victor's trumpets will be heard. Will the victors be the Forces of Light, under whose banners it fight the Allies, or will evil triumph and greed reap the profits of aggression? Will men be led into a darkness which - though not interminable - will engulf the human soul for decades? The answers to these questions lie in the decisions and the activities of humanity itself. The Hierarchy waits.
I have referred to the increased difficulty which will confront the men and women of goodwill (working under the [327] New Group of World Servers). What constitutes the difficulty, if we analyze the situation? Two major factors:
