# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Interlude between War and Peace

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1157.html

In the earlier pamphlets, I sought (along with many other thinking people) to indicate the steps which might be taken to avert the impending cataclysm. Among the most important upon which emphasis was laid was the growth of world goodwill, for goodwill is the active principle of peace. I sought also to stress international understanding, a future of shared planetary resources, and a recognition of [367] a general historically-proved guilt in relation to the war, plus those ideas which could - if developed - end the era of separativeness.
In spite of all the efforts of the men of goodwill, of all the peace organizations, and the enlightened work of the world thinkers, educators and leaders, two things happened which it had been hoped might be averted. The first was a definite and focused precipitation of the spirit of evil and of materialism through the medium of the Axis nations, using the aggression of Japan as the initial focal point and expressing itself later in full force through Germany. The second was the failure of the neutral nations, in the early stages of the war, to take the needed steps to ally themselves actively with the nations fighting totalitarianism, and their inability to realize the full horror of what lay ahead for mankind. The selfishness of humanity was even more deep seated than was grasped, and the United Nations came into cooperative activity only after two years of war and the planned rape of many of the neutral nations. The blindness of the neutral nations definitely upset the calculations of farsighted workers for world good and seriously delayed the ending of the war.
The critical point is now passed, and the humanitarian grasp of the issues involved, and the unity existing among the Allied Nations, guarantee the inevitable defeat of the Axis Powers. Other factors also ensure the ultimate victory of the forces of right and the freedom of the world. There is not time to enlarge upon them, but they can be listed and people can then see how assuredly they guarantee the triumph of the free peoples of the world. These factors are:
These three points of view are today being clearly realized by men everywhere, and their decisions as to loyalties and adherence are clarified.
