# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Interlude between War and Peace

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1161.html

How can we simply and clearly express the goal of this hoped-for new world order and word briefly the objective which each person and nation should hold before itself when the war ends and opportunity faces each and all? It is surely that every nation, great and small (with the minorities given equal and proportionate rights) should pursue its own individual culture and work out its own salvation as seems best to it, but that each and all should develop the realization that they are organic parts of one corporate whole and that they must contribute to that whole all they have and are. This concept is already present in the hearts of countless thousands and carries with it great responsibility. These realizations, when intelligently developed and wisely handled, will lead to right human relations, economic stability (based on the spirit of sharing) and to a fresh orientation of man to man, of nation to nation, and of all to that supreme power to which we give the name "God."
This is the vision and it is holding countless thousands steady in the path of duty, and for it many in every nation are prepared to work. In spite of the background of an evil past, in spite of the present world carnage, in spite of the almost overwhelming psychological problems confronting humanity, in spite of political machinations and old-time diplomacy, in spite of the improbability of any quick successes, there are thousands ready to start with the preparatory work. The number of men and women of vision [378] and of goodwill is now so large (especially among the United Nations) that there is a chance of eventual success and it is possible today to make a start. The outline of the future world structure can already be dimly seen; the failure - complete, obvious and irremediable - of the old order and the old world is everywhere recognized. The will-to-good is growing. One of the interesting things which it is helpful to recognize is that this vision is more clearly seen by the man in the street and by the intelligentsia than it is by the exclusive classes. Through the material difficulties of life, and by resultant processes of thought, men know changed conditions are necessary and that there is no alternative.
The task ahead falls into two categories: First, directing mass thought and energy into right lines so that good motive and wise action can bring in the desired era of right human relations and eventual peace; secondly, educating those whose apathy and lack of vision impede progress. This latter phase of the work is well under way and a powerful, though small, group among the world leaders is voicing certain general propositions which must be regarded as imperative when world readjustment starts. Their demand is for a new governing principle in politics and in education, founded on universally recognized human rights, on the need for spiritual unity and the need to throw overboard all separative theological attitudes and dogmas in every field of thought. There is a mounting appeal not only for international understanding and cooperation, but also for class understanding. These demands are being expressed from every platform and pulpit and through the pen in every land, except in those sad lands where freedom of speech is not permitted.
