# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Coming Work of Reconstruction

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1207.html

The unique opportunity which confronts the Christ as His great hour draws near is that of unifying, synthesizing and integrating all these forces into one great and potent downpouring of spiritual energy. These energies involve the activities of the Spirit of Resurrection, the inspiration of the Buddha as He this year conveys the strength of the One in Whom we live and move and have our being, and that which the Christ Himself will set in motion in response to the invocative appeal of the new group of world servers, the men of goodwill and the "massed intent" of the inarticulate masses. It is essential that we try to grasp the unity of this hierarchical effort.
The energy which will lead to the restoration of human aspiration, right idealism and fixed humanitarian intention [484] is that distributed by the Forces of Restoration which were set in motion this year, at the time of the Easter Full Moon, under the direction of the Masters of the Wisdom and the supervision of the Christ. They will concern themselves with the reorientation of the human psyche and with the inevitable consequences of that reorientation - the acquiring of the vision which will bring about right human relations. This will be largely done by the spiritual people in the world, by aspirants, working disciples and (where possible) through the spiritually minded people in the churches and humanitarian and esoteric groups.
The energy which will lead to intelligent activity and to correct mental planning I have called that of the Forces of Enlightenment; once these have been released, it becomes the responsibility of the new group of world servers to direct them. Then through the enlightened plans of the world intelligentsia and prominent humanitarians and racial server , it will be possible to establish those spiritual principles and that correct cooperative relationship which should distinguish human affairs in the future. Those who will be directly affected, if the plans go as desired, are the big educational systems, the worldwide propaganda institutions, and all those agencies which work to educate and direct public thinking and mould public opinion.
The energy which I have called the Forces of Reconstruction will be more general in their application, and they will affect the masses of men through the work of the men and women of goodwill. I have therefore outlined a planned distribution of the three great streams of divine energy which will be set in motion at the three current Full Moons - one already past and two to come:
The inspiring sources of these spiritual agencies are, first of all, the Spirit of Resurrection (an extra-planetary Being), then the Lord of the World, working through the Buddha, and finally the Christ Himself. These Three will work through the Hierarchy, the new group of world servers, and the men and women of goodwill. Such is the general plan proposed by Those Who stand - with enlightened spiritual purpose - ready at this time to lead humanity out of darkness into light, from the unreal to the real, and from death to immortality. That most ancient of prayers comes today to have its deepest spiritual significance. Let me repeat it in the order in which today it gains meaning:
Lead us, O Lord, from death to Immortality; From darkness to Light; From the unreal to the Real.
The beauty of this synthesis and the wonder of this opportunity are surely apparent as we study what is here written and consider these aspects of the divine Plan. Great Forces, under potent spiritual leadership, are standing ready to precipitate Themselves into this human world of chaos, confusion, aspiration and bewilderment. These groups of energies are ready to focus and distribute themselves, and the Hierarchy is closer to mankind than ever before; the new group of world servers are also "standing attentive to direction" in every country in the world, united in their idealism, in their humanitarian objectives, in their sensitivity to spiritual impression, in their united subjective purpose, in their love of their fellowmen, and in their dedication to selfless service; the men and women of goodwill are also to be found everywhere, ready to be guided into constructive activity, and to be the agents (gradually trained and educated) for the establishment of what has never yet truly existed - right human relations.
