# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II -
Materialism and Spirituality

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1077.html

There are today three major human trends: First of all, a trend towards a spiritual and free way of life; secondly, a trend towards intellectual unfoldment; and lastly, a potent trend towards material living and aggression. At present, the last of these innate tendencies is in the saddle, with the second, the intellectual attitude, throwing its weight upon the side of the material goals. A relatively small group is throwing the weight of human aspiration upon the side of the spiritual values. The war between the pairs of opposites - materialism and spirituality - is raging fiercely. Only as men turn away from material aggression and towards spiritual objectives will the world situation change, and men - motivated by goodwill - force the aggressors back to their own place and release humanity from fear and force. We are today reaping the results of our own sowing. The recognition of the cause of the problem provides humanity with the opportunity to end it. The time has arrived in which it is possible to institute those changes [183] in attitude which will bring an era of peace and goodwill, founded on right human relations.
These two forces - materialism and spirituality - face each other. What will be the outcome? Will men arrest the evil and initiate a period of understanding, cooperation and right relationship, or will they continue the process of selfish planning and of economic and militant competition? This question must be answered by the clear thinking of the masses and by the calm and unafraid challenges of the democracies.
On all sides the need for a new world order is being recognized. The totalitarian powers are talking of the "new order in Europe"; the idealists and thinkers are unfolding schemes and plans which vision entirely new conditions that will bring the old bad order to an end. There is a constant demand for the Allies to state their peace aims and indicate clearly what adjustments will be made after the war, because a vision of the future world policy will help humanity through the present crisis.
