# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Factors in the World Situation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1182.html

April 1944
I have written to the world aspirants for many Wesaks now. I have again and again brought to your attention and theirs the close relation which is being established between the world of men and the world of souls. I have again and again pointed out that, under the Law of Evolution, certain great fusions, at-one-ments or great Approaches are taking place. I have indicated that the present activity of our planetary Logos is bringing certain major adjustments within the planetary sphere of influence and that these primarily affect the human kingdom. I have called to your notice the urgency of the incoming life, producing tension, spiritual recognitions of a far-reaching nature, the immediate overthrow of false Gods and standards, and the destruction of outworn and crystallized interpretations (called doctrines) of the spiritual realities. By these means, the way is cleared for a new and simple recognition of divinity which will satisfy not only the heart of the simplest person, but which will meet the need of the most intelligent. I have talked in terms of the union of Eastern and Western thought and of the need for the great civilizations - nurtured under the influence of Shri Krishna, the Buddha and the Christ - to be brought closer together. I have said (and I here reaffirm) that He Who comes will make this union possible and effective. This event will evoke worldwide recognition.
I have stated also that we are reaching a climaxing period in human history; in this period the Lords of Karma are unusually active; the Law of Cause and Effect is bringing the results of past activities, the subjective thinking and the secret impulses to the surface, and exacting penalty and the planned cleaning of the slate of human history. When He Whom all disciples serve was on Earth two thousand years ago, He said that secret things would be made plain; by this emergence of the good and of the bad into prominence, men will arrive at knowledge, at understanding, and will be forced to take those steps which will be needed to [424] build a new and better world, based on the Law of Love and not on the Law of Separateness and hate. This is what is happening today.
I have said also that the Forces of Light are nearing the Earth and that the Hierarchy is coming steadily closer to mankind.
These basic events, these subjective happenings and these spiritual determinations - under the Law of Action and Reaction - have evoked a more rapid response from the Forces of Evil (present in our planetary life) than from humanity. Certain great Forces or embodied Energies of darkness and of evil organized themselves and took the needed steps (so they believed) to prevent humanity from stepping onward into light. They availed themselves of the weaknesses, the selfishness and the self-interest of man; just as good can stimulate the latent goodness in mankind into expression, so evil can evoke greater evil from those susceptible from innate weakness, and from the unthinking and emotional: the Forces of Light work only with men's souls. Lies, false teaching, evil propaganda, a war of nerves, the culture of fear, the organization of groups and of isolated workers in every nation pledged to undermine righteousness and distort the truth, went rapidly forward. Great and fundamental truths were twisted to meet the ends of the evil workers.
The doctrine, for instance, of the super-race was interpreted to mean the superiority of the German nation and culture to all in the West, whilst the divinity of the Sons of Heaven (the Japanese race) was emphasized to all in the East. The bewildered peoples of both nations were led to believe that they had a great and spiritual mission to dominate the world.
This was the first result of the approach of the Kingdom of God to the earth, or rather to the physical plane. In that kingdom men of all races will demonstrate their divinity; the kingdom of souls will be recognized as the universal home and race of all men. Separative nationalities will, in that kingdom, have no place or recognition. [425]
