# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Cycle of Conferences

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1195.html

Let us consider for a minute what the Hierarchy stands ready to do and what its Members will plan and formulate during the Easter Festival this month, during the Wesak Festival in April, and during the Festival of the Christ at the end of May. It might be said that the Hierarchy, in conjunction with the great Council of the Will of God at Shamballa, will divide Their work into three parts, each governing three phases of the coming restoration of humanity to civilized and cultured living on a new and higher turn of the spiral. They will deal with the problem of spiritual freedom, as it embodies itself in the Four Freedoms, and with the problem of right human relations, as it will express itself through international relations, national parties and general human affairs. It is not for me to tell you what humanity, through its statesmen and leaders, will plan to do at the coming conferences. It is my task to mobilize the new group of world servers and the men and women of goodwill so that they may stand as a great "army of implacable spiritual will" behind the participants in these conferences and councils, enabling them to think with clarity about the issues involved and thus (through this clear thinking) affect telepathically the minds of men; this involves the use of a power seldom employed as yet on the side of righteous endeavor, though already widely used by the materialistic leaders of the forces of evil.
It is the task of the Hierarchy to find and reach the enlightened men and women in all the churches, all the political parties, all the organizations - social, economic, and educational - so that their united purpose will be clear. This [456] They will do through the medium of Their active, working disciples in the world. Thus They will pave the way for the true freedom of mankind - a freedom which is as yet a dream and a hope in even the most democratic countries.
But behind all this activity, watched over by the spiritual Guides of the race but determined and implemented by humanity itself, will be found the focused attention of the Hierarchy. This spiritual tension which exists among Them is far more potent than any of you suspect; it is part of Their preparatory work to make available certain spiritual forces and powers which - though complementary or supplementary to the self-initiated effort of mankind - will make that effort successful. What humanity has now to do, and is already doing to a certain degree, is to arrive at a right orientation as regards human affairs. Let us therefore look at the three phases of this preparatory work now going on, and endeavor to gauge what will be the results if these energies and potencies are released through the invocative demand of men.
