# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Religious Organizations in the New Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1219.html

In the esoteric group, which is composed of the true spiritual esotericists found in all exoteric occult groups, in the church, by whatever name it may be called, and in Masonry you have the three paths leading to initiation. As yet they are not used, and one of the things that will eventuate - when the new universal religion has sway and the nature of esotericism is understood - will be the utilization of the banded esoteric organisms, the Masonic organism and the Church organism as initiating centers. These three groups converge as their inner sanctuaries are approached. There is no dissociation between the One Universal Church, the sacred inner Lodge of all true Masons, and the innermost circles of the esoteric societies. Three types of men have their need met, three major rays are expressed, and the three paths to the Master are trodden, leading all three to the same portal and the same Hierophant.
It must not be forgotten that only those souls who are on the Probationary Path or the Path of Discipleship will form the nucleus of the coming world religion. It exists on the inner planes for the purpose of gathering out of all the churches those who have reached the point in evolution where they can consciously and of their own free will place their feet upon that Path which leads to the center of peace; who can in full awareness turn their eyes upon the Great Lord, and transmute the life of worldly endeavor into the life of service. The first detachment gathered into the coming Church will be found to be a part of the present great band of servers. These have, down the ages, been associated with the Christ in His work. Remember always the fact of the work He did in connection with the last advent, and remember likewise that in the turning of the cyclic wheel, in the evolution of the spiral, similar conditions will eventuate, the same needs arise, and the same egos incarnate that were present in the days of old in Palestine. The numbers of those associated with Him will be greatly increased, [514] for all who knew Him in earlier incarnations in the ancient East, all whom He cured or taught, all who contacted Him or in any way incurred karma with Him or with the Master Jesus, will have the opportunity to cooperate at this time. Each sincere aspirant who is closely connected with the present Church organizations, who feels a close link with the Christ and who loves Him, can be practically sure that in Palestine they saw Him, knew Him and mayhap served and loved Him.
