# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - The Influence of the Rays
Today

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/desnat/dest1017.html

These three are: Hercules, the perfect disciple but not yet the perfected Son of God; the Buddha, the perfect initiate, having reached illumination but not yet having developed to perfection all the attributes of divinity; the Christ, the absolutely perfect expression of divinity for this cycle and, therefore, the Teacher alike of angels and of men. That ahead of the race may lie a still higher perfection than that attained by any of these Exponents of divinity is inexpressibly true, for we know not yet what divinity really means; in these three, however, we have three instances of a perfection which lies far ahead for the majority of the sons of men.
In all of Them, the sixth and the second rays were controlling factors, with the first ray reaching full expression. In Them, idealism, love-wisdom and indomitable will stood forth in all their divine power. It might be of interest to you to know just what rays controlled these Sons of God:
These three all embodied the essences of the spiritual life and all of Them were enabled to set Their seal upon history and upon the hearts of men, largely through the potency of Their sixth ray expression. All of Them embodied also the new spiritual impulse which Their day and age required and all of Them for centuries - by the strength of Their living love and power - brought the vision and the aspiration of humanity back to those spiritual essentials whereby men must live. All of Them were part of the directing group of Lives Who are working out the plans of God, founded upon the love of God. The Buddha and the Christ are still closely connected with, and working in cooperation with, the Hierarchy. Hercules has gone over into the Shamballa center, but still works in a basic association with the Buddha Who is one of the Forces linking Shamballa and the Hierarchy.
