# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - The
Work of the Seed Groups

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1019.html

January 1938
We have been endeavoring to apprehend a little more intelligently the work of the new age seed groups, their [47] interrelation and their work as part of the new age "set-up," if I might employ such a term. We considered with some care the three major groups. We saw that each of them had three tasks to perform and we attempted a slight analysis of their planned undertakings. Now we can do the same with the remaining groups, particularly with the fourth and fifth which have education and political work as their projects. And then we will only briefly indicate the triple intended purpose of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth groups. We will not take time to consider the tenth, which will be composed of the key people in the other groups, beyond stating that when its twenty-seven members (three from each group) are chosen and put in rapport with each other, there should come to all the groups such a quickening of their life that they will become one living vibrant organism.
The fourth group has ahead of it a rich and most interesting course of study and an illuminating objective. Its instructions (See Education in the New Age) will evoke more interested response from a larger group of readers than perhaps will be the case in the instructions of any of the other groups, except those of the sixth whose subject is religion in the new age, and the third (See Esoteric Healing). I give them in the order of their importance. They will be more definitely popular and meet a more general need. The interest which the teaching on education will evoke will be owing to the fact that education is today widely recognized as the major molding factor, next to economic pressure and circumstance, and there is a widespread interest in progressive education and in the new ideals which should - and will - eventually govern educators.
There is a definite stirring among the masses and the life of the mind (note that phrase) is now more active and potent than ever before. For this there is an occult reason of a most interesting nature.
Those of you who have studied The Secret Doctrine will remember that in that momentous period wherein animal-man made the great transition into the human family and [48] humanity came into being, developing the germ of individuality, the seed of self-consciousness and embryo intellect, we are told that this event was brought about in three ways:
