# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza II

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1111.html

That embodiment is one mode in which divine intervention can take place. The Prince of Peace will lead His people - through war - to peace. Those who think only in terms of peace as they understand it and desire it are apt to forget the Biblical implication that the Prince of Peace takes a definite part in the battle of Armageddon (now in full progress). After achieving victory, He will then lead His triumphant cohorts through the gates into "Jerusalem," the city of peace. The symbolic and practical significance of this is becoming increasingly apparent. This notable event can and will take place when the free will of the people, blended by invocation and prayer, can make this possible.
Divine intervention could also take the form of a cataclysmic happening which would bring aggression to an end through destruction. It would probably be at such a cost of human life that there is definite hesitation over employing it by the custodians of natural law and the workers who understand divine purpose, apart from the fact that humanity has now reached the point in evolution where the expression of human free will is definitely possible. The use of cataclysm was the method employed in Atlantean days, as you well know from the tales of the flood, and through the flood there was almost complete destruction of the civilization of that time. It is hoped that such a drastic step will not be needed today, though there are ancient prophecies which foretell the possibility of the destruction of this world at this time through fire - instead of flood. Which of the two methods - divine embodiment and natural cataclysm - will be employed will really be decided by humanity through its use or non-use of free will and understanding. If humanity fails to unite under the banner of the Forces of Light against the forces of material aggression and selfishness, then the "fiery ordeal" might be unavoidable.
There are also sleeping hosts which may be evoked for the aiding of the spiritual forces, and certain ancient prophecies hint at these, but as we study the new Invocation phrase [260] by phrase, I may be able to make this matter clearer, for there are several significances and meanings behind each phrase. The one thing I seek to make clear in these opening remarks is that natural law, free will, and karma are becoming increasingly related and are all aspects of one great law, embodying divine purpose - a purpose which must work out through the medium of humanity itself if the present opportunity is to be met correctly and in line with divine purpose.
The stimulation of certain people to phenomenal action, and the instigation of others to emerge as dynamic and inspired leaders, is also another way in which divine intervention might find expression. Oft, down the ages, men have been over-shadowed by divinity and inspired by God to accept positive leadership, and so make divine purpose a fact in conditioning world affairs. Had they not so responded to the influencing impression, and had they not accepted the responsibility imposed upon them, the course of world affairs and world events might have been very different. I refer not here specifically to spiritual leaders but also to leaders in other departments of human living - to such expressions of the divine will as Moses, the Lawgiver, Akbar, the warrior and student, Leonardo da Vinci, the inspired artist, and to other great and outstanding figures who have determined the basic trends of human civilization; I refer also to the constructive forces which have guided mankind into the increasing light of knowledge and understanding. All these leaders have produced lasting effects upon the human consciousness and their work has lain therefore in the domain of the second aspect of divinity. Their activities parallel those of the workers who are, or have been, inspired by the material or matter aspect of manifestation, whose influence has been predominantly upon the physical plane, and whose effect has been outstandingly along selfish personal lines. This type of influence is felt predominantly upon the physical plane, and therefore, from certain angles, the present conflict might be regarded as one between the second aspect, the developed spiritual consciousness, and the material aspect of [261] manifestation, with humanity constituting the great field of divine conflict at this time.
