# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - Seed
Groups in the New Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1015.html

As regards telepathic communication between the Members of the Hierarchy: Within itself, the Hierarchy functions practically entirely on the plane of mind. This is necessarily essential and for two reasons:
This is all made possible when a human being has polarized himself in the soul consciousness, when the egoic lotus is unfolding and when, therefore, the mental method of working is that of mental relationship or telepathy.
I earlier told you that, as the race achieves increasingly a mental polarization through the developing attractive power of the mental principle, the use of language for the conveying of thoughts between equals or of communicating with superiors will fall into disuse. It will continue to be used in reaching the masses and those not functioning on the plane of mind. Already voiceless prayer and aspiration and worship are deemed of higher value than the pleadings and proclamations of voiced expression. It is for this stage in the unfoldment of the race for which preparation must be made, and the laws, techniques and processes of telepathic communication must be made plain so that they can be intelligently and theoretically understood. The method of communication between members of the Hierarchy is a tenfold process, and only in the contribution of the ten [38] groups (the nine and the synthesizing tenth) will their share in the externalizing process, as it is to take place in the world, be completed.
From certain angles the work of the second group (the Trained Observers) is exceedingly hard, harder perhaps than that of any other group - except that which is engaged in political work. In the latter field the work of the first Ray of Will or Power is beginning to make its presence felt, and hence the great difficulty. The energy which works out in political activity is not yet understood. The work of the Destroyer Aspect has been kept relatively in the background and only during the past half century has it become definitely active. This became possible because the whole world, practically speaking, was involved and only in the region or realm of synthesis can the first Ray function. This is a point to be remembered and one that is little grasped as yet. I wonder if you can appreciate the importance of the two statements anent the first Ray found in this short paragraph? I oft give you so much real information of which you remain oblivious.
The second group is wrestling with glamor. The processes of light and their relation to group glamor and to individual glamor form a very close connection. Right illumination - which is another name or aspect of right direction - will take the place of glamor, and the objective (personally considered) of this group of disciples is to bring "light into dark places" and illumination into their lives. It is not my intention here to deal with the problem of glamor. With that I have concerned myself in the instructions to this group (Glamor: A World Problem).
The task of this group of disciples is closely connected with the astral task of the Hierarchy. This is, at this time, the dissipation of the world illusion. That has been its problem since Atlantean times, and the climaxing of its effort is imminent and immediate. It takes the form (for all illusions take to themselves form of some kind or other) of the "pouring in of light," esoterically understood. This is an illusion and at the same time a great and [39] significant spiritual fact. Hence we have today upon the physical plane the emergence of much light everywhere; we have festivals of illumination, and a consistent endeavor on the part of all spiritual workers to enlighten mankind, and a great deal of talk on the part of educators anent illumination of a mental kind. The keynote of this effort to eliminate world glamor was sounded by Christ when He said (following the example of Hermes, Who initiated the process of enlightenment for our race, the Aryan), "I am the Light of the World."
