# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Great Invocation - Stanza I

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1065.html

Forget not, first of all, the necessary process of alignment wherein you do two things:
I might here point out that the difference between the linking up that you can effectively do and that which is done by a Member of the Hierarchy itself is that you link up [157] via the Hierarchy and then through the medium of the Great Invocation reach forth to Shamballa whereas the initiates and the Masters link Themselves directly with Shamballa and use the Great Invocation in a manner totally different to that in which you use it. There is for you and the average aspirant no direct contact, and that is definitely fortunate for you. I may not further elucidate.
The second thing which you do is then to focus yourself in as high a consciousness as you are capable of achieving. Then you aim at complete self-forgetfulness and when that has been gained you direct your attention to the dual activity of the true disciple to which I earlier referred, i.e., the task of emphasizing a significant understanding of the implications and meanings of the words said and of the results to be achieved. There comes next the sending forth of the words with their hidden potency and this must be done by you as a soul, using the mind and the brain as agents.
Integration, conscious activity, and the expression of the work to be done upon the physical plane will cover the entire story. These rightly carried forward will prove effective. Would it clarify matters for you if I state that:
Forget not that this has to be a group endeavor and must be carried forward in cooperation with the Hierarchy. It involves also the recognition that the soul is one and that there is no such thing as my soul - only our soul.
In considering the five sentences which form what might [158] be called the mandate of the Great Invocation (see page 144), I would like, first of all, to point out a few underlying and basic ideas.
This Great Invocation has been used by the Hierarchy ever since the year 1425 A.D. though it is thousands of years older than that. Owing, however, to the unreadiness of humanity to cooperate in its use, the results have been delayed and are regarded as "hovering." I know not how else to express the results already achieved. Today, they can precipitate, if right cooperation can be extended by humanity, and such cooperation now seems immediately possible.
The first phase, Let the Forces of Light bring illumination to mankind, definitely invokes potencies which are to be found upon monadic levels of consciousness and upon what is occultly called the second plane of divine manifestation. These Forces include the Lord of the World and the Representatives of the seven sacred planets Who are spoken of in the Christian Bible as the "seven Spirits before the Throne of God." They include also the three Agents of the Divine Triplicity Who are known, esoterically and in the East as the three Kumaras, or the three Buddhas of Activity.
What do these names and these great Individualities mean to you and to average humanity? Nothing at all and this is necessarily so. They remain but names and possible hypothetical expressions of divinity until after the third initiation when the conscious recognition of the Monad becomes possible; then Forces and Energies, personified for us in these great and stupendous Lives, can be demonstrated as having true existence. On the way to these fundamental recognitions, Their three Representatives within the limits of the Hierarchy must be accepted and known to be correspondingly functioning Activities. These Three are, the Manu, the focal point of the first Ray of Will or Power; the Christ, the head of the Hierarchy and the representative of the second Ray of Love-Wisdom; and the Lord of Civilization, the expression of the third Ray of Active Intelligence. [159] This knowledge is achieved during the process of training for the first three initiations. Therefore, all that I here tell you must be regarded as possible of verification, and as being testified to by all the world Scriptures and by the initiates of all lands, but it must necessarily remain personally unverified by you until a much later date in your unfoldment.
