# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III -
Factors in the World Situation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1183.html

There is another aspect of this matter to which I would like to call your attention. These restrictions which the Forces of Light recognize have also an undesirable effect where the unintelligent and well-meaning are concerned, and where those who are emotionally polarized interpret the Law of Love. The United Nations, working for human liberation and freedom (and therefore working under the Law of Love, rightly understood) is prevented from following the lines of indiscriminate cruelty which characterized the German and Japanese techniques: torture, starvation, lying propaganda, misuse of prisoners, the dissemination of a terror campaign. These are not permitted by the rules of the Brothers of Humanity. From a purely physical angle, this can be interpreted as putting the "Armies of the Lord" at a disadvantage. It is this right attitude on the part of the Forces of Light which has an undesirable effect upon the appeasers and pacifists of the world. These would, for humanitarian reasons and from love of the forms through which humanity functions, bring the war to an immediate end.
In their well-meaning blindness they would sacrifice the future of humanity and the lives of millions of people at a later date for a temporary cessation of hostilities. I would emphasize to you that the Forces of Evil must be defeated now; the evil leaders must be wrenched from their high place, and the complete defeat and annihilation of those responsible for launching this horror on humanity is an absolute necessity and bounden duty, if security, well-being and a new order of happier living is to be the lot of coming generations. A temporary ending of the war would only give time for the Forces of Evil to reorganize, and the future war would be infinitely worse than this one. This the intelligent humanitarian is saying, and this is the opinion of the Hierarchy. The Hierarchy stands firmly on the side of those who demand a war to a finish, and the reasons are the ultimate saving of millions of lives and the preservation of certain basic spiritual values.
