# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV - The
Externalization of the Ashrams

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1222.html

January 1946
In these words I refer to an aspect of the amazing enterprise upon which the Hierarchy is embarked within this cycle: Its appearance, expression and activity upon the physical plane for the first time since it withdrew into the subjective side of life and focused itself on the mental plane (instead of the physical) during the days of ancient Atlantis and after the war between the Lords of the Shining Countenance and Lords of the Dark Face, as The Secret Doctrine calls it. For millions of years, as a result of the triumph of evil in those days, the Hierarchy has stood in silence behind world events, occupied with the following work - a work which will eventually be carried on exoterically instead of esoterically:
All of these activities and functions of the Hierarchy are well known to many of you theoretically, and to some at first hand - which is a good and useful thing to recognize. These activities have all been carried on "behind the veil" and are, of course, only a very small part of the total work of the Hierarchy. Much of it would be entirely incomprehensible to you. However, if the disciples of this modern world, and the initiates, can measure up to their present and presented opportunity, it should be possible for all of this not only to be carried forward in the full light of day, but with the cooperation and the understanding acceptance of the intelligent people everywhere, and also with the devoted acquiescence (though blind acceptance) of the man in the street. [521]
Something of this, something of the new activities which will be brought to the attention of disciples in physical bodies, something of the scope of the undertaking of externalization, something of what all of you can do to prepare the way for this major change, and something of the tremendous difficulties involved, I am seeking to convey to you, if I can.
One of the things now occupying the attention of the Masters is the externalization of their ashrams on the outer plane. This is preparatory to later envisioned developments. If this can be done then other developments may be possible. An extension of the ashram is desired. It was with this in view that I inaugurated a new activity in May 1941 and chose so many of my disciples resident in New York. I also began to give out the teaching on the stages of discipleship (Discipleship in the New Age, Vol. I, Section III.) and suggested that the group members meet together for one full afternoon around the time of the full moon each month, and to do this in a quiet and unhurried spirit. I desired that they spend the entire afternoon in conference, mutual understanding, discussion of group problems as these affect group service, and - above all - make an attempt (through deep united meditation and the pooling of knowledge) to approach closer to the Hierarchy. This would aid them to work together as a group for world aiding and to do it together. I asked them to study the relation which exists between a Master and His disciples.
