# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Destiny of Nations - Spiritual Life in the New
Age

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/desnat/dest1058.html

The seventh ray influence is that which will produce in a peculiar and unexpected sense the Western School of Occultism just as the sixth ray impulse has produced the Eastern School of Occultism - the latter bringing the light down on to the astral plane and the new incoming influence carrying it down on to the physical. The Eastern teaching affected Christianity and indicated and determined the lines of its development and Christianity is definitely a bridging religion. The roles will eventually be reversed and the shift of the "light in the East" will be over Europe and America. This will inevitably bring about the needed and desired synthesis of the mystical way and the occult path. It will lead later to the formulation of the higher way; of this it is useless to speak at this time for you would not comprehend. None of the foundational and ancient Rules of the Road will ever be abrogated or discarded: just as men used to travel on the ancient highways on foot, conforming to the requirement of their time and age, and today travel by rail or automobile (arriving at the same destination) so the same road will be followed, the same goal achieved but there may be different procedures, varying safeguards and changed protective measures. The rules may vary from time to time in order to provide easier [133] indication and adequate protection. The training of the disciple in the future will differ in detail from that of the past but the basic rules remain authoritative.
The keynote, governing the development of the sixth ray disciple, was expressed for him in the words of Christ when He said: "I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men." The emphasis of all sixth ray work is Attraction and Repulsion - hence division and cleavage, producing eventually a realization of the necessity for a consciously undertaken synthesis and integration, mentally motivated and produced. The history of Christianity (which is the history of Europe) will stand illumined if the Law of Attraction and Repulsion is studied in connection with its eventful past. The use and misuse of this law and its constant interpretations in terms of material desires, personal ambitions, and territorial control produced the many schisms and cleavages and will account for much that happened. Under the seventh ray influence, these cleavages will end and synthesis will eventually take place.
The keynote of the seventh ray disciple is "Radiatory Activity." Hence the emergence in world thought of certain new ideas - mental radiation or telepathy, the radiatory use of heat, the discovery of radium. All this connotes seventh ray activity.
