# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - II - The
Goodwill Work

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1074.html

Prior to September, 1939, the objectives of our worldwide work, over a period of nine years, were the spreading of world goodwill, the discovery of the men and women of goodwill throughout the world, and the endeavor to teach the meaning of the will-to-good. This is the main task of [178] the new group of world servers. We inculcated a non-separative attitude and the need for right human relations. We endeavored to make clear that differing forms of government and varying ideological systems were right and possible, provided that human beings lived together in goodwill and recognized their blood brotherhood.
Then humanity made its decision to fight, and the war broke out: one group, the instigators of the war, fighting to acquire material power, the glory of a nation and the subjugation of the defenceless; and the other, fighting to preserve its own liberty of action, the preservation of its integrity, the right of the little nations and the spiritual values. Immediately, the issue was abundantly clear in the minds of those who were in touch with human affairs; immediately certain nations took sides against the forces of aggression; immediately, other nations, biased by similar distorted ideologies and equally selfish purposes, stood with the aggressor nation; immediately, panic swept the remaining nations, who took refuge in short-sighted neutrality and defence programs - a neutrality and programs which have proved quite futile to protect them.
Where, then, should the new group of world servers stand? What should the men and women of goodwill do? Should they side with the totalitarian powers because in so doing they will bring the conflict more rapidly to an end, or should they stand on the side of the neutral powers, frantically pursuing ineffective peace programs, policies of appeasement, and play into the hands of the totalitarian powers?
Humanity having decided to fight out the battle physically, there was nothing left to do but issue a challenge to the men and women of goodwill to take their stand on the side of such action as would release humanity through the destruction of the evil forces. These had determined to prove that might was right. Therefore, the forces fighting for progress and civilization had to meet force with force.
The challenge was taken up by the democracies who [179] stand for human rights and liberty. Because of the decision to fight on the side of spiritual progress, the spiritual forces of the planet had no alternative but to align themselves on the side of the allied democracies, and endeavor to awaken the neutral nations to the issue. They ranged themselves against the leaders of the aggressor nations, though not against their poor deluded or subdued peoples. They too must be liberated by the allied democracies.
On the basis of an active will-to-good, the men and women of goodwill, acting under the inspiration of the New Group of World Servers, had no alternative but to take their stand with the spiritual forces and join the struggle for the liberation of humanity from totalitarian ambitions and the intentions of a group of evil men. But the spirit of goodwill must be, steadily and unchangingly, the motivating impulse. No hate must be allowed to enter in. The greatest good of the greatest number lies today in the release of the nations from the domination of the totalitarian powers.
