# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - A
Special Wesak Festival Message

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1168.html

There are therefore, (speaking in terms of spiritual endeavor) the following groups whose massed intent is to bring about the liberation of humanity and who are to be found everywhere in the world:
The problem is how to fuse and blend the first five groups so that the spiritual appeal can express a group integrated and united demand. Only such a united demand, focusing the "massed intent" of mankind will suffice to evoke an extra-planetary response.
Much of this task of unification lies in the hands of two groups: the planetary Hierarchy and the new group of world servers. With the work of the first group, mankind has little to do, for They can be depended upon to fulfil Their task and to shoulder Their responsibility to the full. With the work of the new group of world servers all of you have much to do and it is about this work that I write at this time.
I shall not waste time in defining the personnel of this group. Suffice it to say that all who truly love their fellowmen [393] and who serve them with sacrifice and selfless understanding constitute this group. Along with the affiliated body of men of goodwill, the members of the new group of world servers must now prepare themselves for a great act of service at the time of the May and June Full Moons and throughout the weeks preceding those times.
The statements which I am now going to make, I will put as briefly as possible, leaving you to ponder upon them and trusting you to understand them. What I have now to say will fall into three parts:
It is necessary for you to understand the immediate spiritual possibilities which confront humanity if those of you who have vision and love humanity are to measure up to the immediate opportunity. It is necessary that you should grasp the immediate preparatory steps which you can take in relation to those possibilities and should also have a vision of the principles which must govern the new world religion, with its outstanding points of focus. I do not intend to plead with you, as in the past, or ask you for cooperation either to serve or sacrifice. I only seek to give you information, leaving you to make due application under the urge of your own souls.
