# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - III - The
Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1122.html

At the time of this Wesak Festival, I would call your attention to the fact that the annual return of the Buddha to bless His people everywhere and to convey the message of wisdom, light and love to humanity - coming as He does [287] from the very Heart of Deity Itself - is the outer evidence and guarantee of inner divine guidance and revelation in this present world cycle of 2500 years. Year by year He returns. For a brief minute He reminds us that God exists and ever loves; that He is not unmindful of His people; that the heart of the universe is unalterable compassion, and that man is not alone. To bring this recognition about and to make this appearance possible, a living Triangle of Energy is created and focused through three great spiritual Individuals, Who evoke recognition both in the East and in the West. They are known to believers of every faith and all nationalities. These Three are:
In these Three, Whose nature is radiant love and light, humanity can grasp in some measure the nature of divinity. They are greater than is known or realized; human intelligence and aspiration can only sense Their essential nature; Their spiritual potency has to be stepped down if mankind is to bear the pressure of the impact of the energy They wield and seek to transmit. It is this stepping down process which takes place at the time of the May Full Moon, and it is brought to a "focus of transmission" by the massed intent of the Hierarchy and the massed demand of the world aspirants and disciples - itself drawn forth by the massed need of the people of all lands. [288]
Here, my brothers, is a simple statement of the facts which must be grasped by all of you who seek to participate intelligently in the Wesak Festival and who are anxious to act as transmitters of the spiritual energy which will, at that time, be poured out to suffering humanity. This Wesak Festival in 1941 can prove to be a "Changer of Conditions" and a major turning point in the life of mankind if every spiritually minded person can bring himself to the needed point of selflessness, disciplined purity and resultant receptivity.
There are certain fundamental truths which lie behind all revealed religions. They are essential to the spiritual growth and the progressive realizations of divinity by man. All else found under the term "doctrine" and allied phrases are but expansions of these fundamentals, explanatory in nature, expressive of human interpretations, and formulations of evolutionary recognitions. These are mainly additions and are in the nature of adornment, speculation and prediction; they are constantly subject to change, to rejection or development as man's intellect and spiritual perception unfolds; they are not basic or unalterable. It is the unalterable truths which must be discovered and recognized as the new world religion takes form on Earth and conditions human thought and consciousness in the coming New Age.
