# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Ashramic Adjustment to Exoteric Living

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1298.html

The necessary detachment cannot be based upon the innate instinct of self-preservation, even when that is carried into the realm of the soul; it must be motivated by an occult absorption in the task, and implemented by the will which keeps the channel of contact open between the disciple and the ashram and between the disciple and his sphere of activity; this channel must be kept entirely clear of all lower identifications. This might be termed a method of eliminating all tendencies to register anything save a wise apprehension of the point in evolution of those contacted; a sound appreciation of the problem to be faced on their behalf, and a process of directing the needed energy of love in such a manner that the stream of projected love not only aids the recipient, but protects the disciple from undue contact; it will then evoke in the person to be helped, or the group to be aided, no reciprocal personality expression; instead, it lifts the entire quality of the personality life or the group life on the purificatory way on to higher levels of awareness.
A great part of the work to be done by the disciples who are emerging from the ashrams, and will continue thus to emerge, is of a purificatory nature at this time, and increasingly so for the rest of this century. On the Path of Probation, the aspirant is taught to purify himself and his three vehicles of contact; upon acceptance into an ashram, a large measure of the needed purification has been achieved. From then on, no emphasis should be laid by the disciple on the purification of his own nature, for this would produce too close and intimate a self-focus and tend to an over-stimulation of the personality vehicles. But the lessons learnt upon the [692] Probationary Path will be found by him to be simply the foundation for the Science of Purification or - if I may use a word made familiar to you through the war experience - of Decontamination. This will be brought into full expression by the working disciples who will be responsible for the preparation of the world for the reappearance. This purificatory process falls into the following stages:
I have worded all this in such a manner that it will be evident that the work to be done is not confined only to humanity, but also to the forms of life in the other kingdoms in nature.
