# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - I - The
Present Urgency

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1009.html

The pamphlet The Next Three Years is going forth today upon its mission. Its objective is to educate public opinion. It carries both inspiration and the power to produce cleavages in the life - cleavages which will produce new activities and the cessation of old attitudes of mind. A possible happening is indicated - the formation upon the physical plane of that group of aspirants and disciples which, [23] given time and opportunity, can salvage a distressed world and bring light and understanding to humanity. As to this, I need say no more.
All of you have read the plan as it is embodied in the pamphlet, and the challenge to faith and the appeal to your service is before you. The next two years will see the decision as to whether the fusion of the inner and the outer groups of world servers can be made, or whether more time must elapse before the earlier ancient cooperation between the Hierarchy and humanity can be re-established.
I speak with love and almost anxiety, and with a wider knowledge of the present urgency than you can possibly have. I couch what I have to say to you in the form of certain questions, which I ask that you should put to yourselves with quietness and sincerity.
Forget not that meditation clarifies the mind as to the fact and nature of the Plan, that understanding brings that Plan into the world of desire, and that love releases the form which will make the Plan materialize upon the physical plane. To these three expressions of your soul I call you. All of You, without exception, can serve in these three ways, if you so desire.
Responding to my appeal will involve sacrifice, but all who grasp the Plan are today spending themselves in the effort to lift humanity up to another rung of the ladder and into greater light. Their hands need strengthening, their work needs helping, and there is not one of you who cannot do more than you are doing, through the aid of meditation, money and thought, to salvage the world, to educate public opinion and so bring in the New Day.
