# Alice Bailey & Djwhal Khul - The Externalization of the Hierarchy - IV -
Hierarchical Preparation at the Wesak Festival

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1234.html

4. The world war now being ostensibly over and the work of restoration, leading to resurrection, being slowly implemented, the work of the Hierarchy is to foster that enthusiasm [549] in the hearts of people everywhere which will enable them to work whole-heartedly for right human relations and the spread of that simple but tonic quality, goodwill. It is enthusiasm in the spiritual sense which is lacking today, even among those who see the Mind of Christ and the Plans of the Hierarchy as existing in factual usefulness; those who have for years read my teachings on goodwill with real belief in what I say but who evidence no willingness to sacrifice time or money, block the growth of the movement. It is the task of the Hierarchy to promote goodwill as the first step in Their plans, and it is that quality which is today closest to the heart of Christ; "goodwill to men," or rather among men, was the primary stage in the threefold promise made by the angels at His Birth:
Analyzed, these words simply mean that goodwill will result in right human relations in that center which we call Humanity; this will produce the possibility of that peace which characterizes the Hierarchy appearing on earth, and leading to the glory of God, which animates the activity of Shamballa, the center where the Will of God is known. Therefore, intelligent relationship, practical love and the full expression of the divine will are bound to occur, if the correct sequence of activities is followed. At present, even the first of them remains a hope. The factors of the failure of the religious and political groups and the apathy of the mass of men have greatly complicated the task of the Hierarchy.
5. My personal work has been to bring all this to the attention of the general public through my interpretation of the Problems of Humanity and bring it to the point where simplicity of purpose, an inspiring and flaming ardor and a minimum of organization may implement the new presentation of goodwill as it affects and changes the [550] sovereign world religions which are forgetful of the words of the Christ, "My kingdom is not of this world"; as it permeates into the political conferences of world statesmen and rulers, and as it governs the decisions of science and economics. In so doing and in the direful task of pointing out mistakes and errors of ancient standing, wrong and disastrous attitudes and human separativeness, an inevitable opposition has been evoked; had there been none, my efforts would have been futile. I have said naught that is not true and I retract no single word which I have said. There are many who prefer the esoteric truths anent the antahkarana, the world constitution, the doctrine of man, the Law of Rebirth and the many intricate teachings related to world planning. These they have received in full measure from me. There are others who desire information anent the Hierarchy, the work and standing of the Masters, the training to be given to disciples and initiates. This again they have received. I have now dealt in the past few years with world abuses and the problems with which humanity is faced in this period of restoration - of God's plan for man, and not of former conditions.
