# America's Subversion The Enemy Within: Chapter 6

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/america_subversion/america_subversion06.htm

Chapter 6
The Trojan Horse - The Enemy Enters Within
Poised before the city's gate and walls, a man dressed in a white smock exclaims as he points to a Trojan Horse, "This is not a war-machine, this is science, this is art." The white-smocked man is himself an artist, a "spin artist."
The "Trojan Horse" represents the art of deception and the science of warfare, indeed, and it is the appearance of art and the appearance of science which conceals the war-machine.
When in the First Degree Oath the Mason swears to ...
"ever conceal and never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry ..." p. 21 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ... Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY
"ever conceal and never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry ..."
p. 21 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY
Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ...
Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S
EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY
... it is apparent that it is not the "art" of Michelangelo, nor that of Vincent van Gogh which is implied.
Masonry has not limited itself to the art of deception, but has concealed within itself the "dark arts of espionage," occult arts of spiritistic practices, arts of spiritistic warfare. The foundation of Masonry is the "All-Seeing-Eye" of Lucifer, the human point of contact with Luciferic consciousness, spiritistic "illumination," the "incarnation on the physical plane" of demon entities "permeating the "brain-mind.""
One of the Middle Ages guises or clandestine vehicles under whose cover spiritistic practices were perpetuated was known as alchemy. "Science" served as a guise.
The real purpose of the gold makers was gradually and cautiously revealed, although a certain amount of discretion was still necessary. The mysticism of alchemy ... The secret tradition in alchemy, with its divine science of human regeneration and redemption, .... p. 24 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
The real purpose of the gold makers was gradually and cautiously revealed, although a certain amount of discretion was still necessary. The mysticism of alchemy ... The secret tradition in alchemy, with its divine science of human regeneration and redemption, ....
p. 24 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
Occult "redemption," the 'serpent bite to the brain' facilitated with drugs and/or meditative techniques which alter the consciousness and produce a trance-like state in which a spirit entity "floods" the consciousness of a human being, was hidden from the public in a vehicle which flourished under the name of "science."
"Science" as a Trojan Horse
It is important to remember that alchemy did not take on the overtones of the World Mystery until it became the vehicle of that Society of Unknown Philosophers which set up the Invisible Empire, to perpetuate in the modern world the great Mystery Schools of antiquity. p. 64 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
It is important to remember that alchemy did not take on the overtones of the World Mystery until it became the vehicle of that Society of Unknown Philosophers which set up the Invisible Empire, to perpetuate in the modern world the great Mystery Schools of antiquity.
p. 64 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
Alchemy served as an adroit masquerade, a Trojan Horse "vehicle" on European soil dominated by the Roman Catholic Church, to perpetuate the esoteric arts of spiritistic "illumination" of the mystery religions. Masonry and Alchemy have traditionally concealed the use of "psychic" power and it's source, Lucifer.
"Masonry ,... and Alchemy, conceals its secrets from all except the Adepts and Sages, or the Elect, and uses false explanations and misinterpretations of its symbols to mislead those who deserve only to be misled; p. 104 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
"Masonry ,... and Alchemy, conceals its secrets from all except the Adepts and Sages, or the Elect, and uses false explanations and misinterpretations of its symbols to mislead those who deserve only to be misled;
p. 104 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
Masonry and Alchemy have a legacy of "false explanations" as a cover to engage in the "Great Work," and to engage in restoring a set of conditions on earth which is referred to as "the golden age." The Lucifer associated spirit entities no doubt regard their walking the earth before the Noahcian Flood as a golden age, for themselves, and it is an age which they are intent on restoring by means of their "re-incarnation."
The foundations of alchemy shifted, and the abstract symbolism was applied to the transformation of corrupt governments, thus preparing the way for the emergence of a democratic-socialized way of life. In time, the mystic-chemists became mystic-politicians. They bound themselves into a Secret Empire of Philosophic Reformers. Through them, magical, cabalistic, and transcendental lore was focused upon the practical task of the restoration of the golden age. This golden age was the symbol of the Philosophic Empire. p. 25 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
The foundations of alchemy shifted, and the abstract symbolism was applied to the transformation of corrupt governments, thus preparing the way for the emergence of a democratic-socialized way of life. In time, the mystic-chemists became mystic-politicians. They bound themselves into a Secret Empire of Philosophic Reformers. Through them, magical, cabalistic, and transcendental lore was focused upon the practical task of the restoration of the golden age. This golden age was the symbol of the Philosophic Empire.
p. 25 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
The "corrupt" governments linked with the Roman Catholic Church which had been influenced and corrupted by the pagan mystery religions were targeted to be replaced by governments ultimately even more corrupted in mystery religion.
The alchemical laboratory became the shrine of the spiritual sciences, taking the place of the ruined sanctuaries of the ancient Mysteries, which had been defiled by war, pillage, and the corruption of priesthoods. It was no longer possible to protect the physical houses of initiation. With the decline of the temporal power of pagan States, the hereditary descent of priestly offices became dangerous and impractical. One by one the shrines were sought out and demolished, and legislation enacted to prevent their re-establishment. It became unsafe even to be suspected of addiction to classical philosophy. ...
The initiate-philosophers simply transferred their temples, shrines, sanctuaries, and palaces to a less tangible but equally real sphere of action. They rebuilt their Empire "along the shores of the air;" that is, on the plane of mind, substituting psychological association for physical Fraternities. Their enemies could not attack successfully these airy fortresses, and the old wisdom continued to permeate the social structure from within. The Mystery teaching emerged under a variety of symbols, emblems, and figures. It took up its abode in the very camp of its adversaries, gradually transmuting all other doctrines into the likeness of itself. It became the Universal Proteus, taking on all appearances at will, yet never revealing its own shape. This Invisible Empire was beyond the reach of the profane. Occasionally one of its citizens (initiates) was apprehended and destroyed, but another immediately filled the vacancy. The machinery of the Inquisition was set in motion against this Empire of the sages, but persecution only strengthened the resolution of these unknown philosophers.
The initiate-philosophers simply transferred their temples, shrines, sanctuaries, and palaces to a less tangible but equally real sphere of action. They rebuilt their Empire "along the shores of the air;" that is, on the plane of mind, substituting psychological association for physical Fraternities. Their enemies could not attack successfully these airy fortresses, and the old wisdom continued to permeate the social structure from within.
The Mystery teaching emerged under a variety of symbols, emblems, and figures. It took up its abode in the very camp of its adversaries, gradually transmuting all other doctrines into the likeness of itself. It became the Universal Proteus, taking on all appearances at will, yet never revealing its own shape. This Invisible Empire was beyond the reach of the profane.
Occasionally one of its citizens (initiates) was apprehended and destroyed, but another immediately filled the vacancy. The machinery of the Inquisition was set in motion against this Empire of the sages, but persecution only strengthened the resolution of these unknown philosophers.
Alchemy was one of the earliest appearances of the Mystery Schools in early Christian Europe. The contrivance was most adroit. It appealed to the ideals of the idealists, and to the avarice of the avaricious. p. 20 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
Alchemy was one of the earliest appearances of the Mystery Schools in early Christian Europe. The contrivance was most adroit. It appealed to the ideals of the idealists, and to the avarice of the avaricious.
p. 20 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
A "most adroit" "contrivance," Alchemy, a front for the perpetuation of the occult practices of ancient mystery religion, served as a "vehicle" for the "Invisible Empire" of occult Adepts.
The "Trojan Horse" of Alchemy on the soil of European rulerships which were linked with the Roman Catholic Church served as a most adroit means of concealment. Eventually the "machinery of the Inquisition" would be dwarfed in scope by the "machinery of Masonry."
Mazzini's occult Machine would entrench itself in Western civilization, corrupt it, perpetrate perversion of justice in the judiciary, in the legislature, and engage in the most sinister methods of violating human beings and their human rights.
The occult conspiracy represents nothing less than a war on the human race by evil powers, clandestinely disenfranchising human rights, violating them, subverting the very soul of man.
This chapter considers some of the most sinister methods which New Age "warriors" have available to themselves to contrive or attempt to compel persons to submit to an earth-wide completion of the Luciferian Plan to accomplish the "Great Work" of re-incarnating Lucifer's angels. Following chapters consider more. Knowing the objectives and methods of the occult conspiracy, it becomes easier to distinguish a "science project" from a concealed war-machine, a Michelangelo from a "Trojan Horse"
Warriors of an Invisible Empire
One of the principle reasons for secrecy in Masonry and other occult secret societies has been to permit the clandestine recruitment of others to join their Machine. The means of recruitment have included very subtle means by which persons become involved in stages, by steps or degrees.
The formation of a virtual army of spiritistic warriors particularly facilitated by the machinery of secret societies has been in process, particularly since the formation of Adam Weishaupt's "ultimate secret society," the Order of the Illuminati, the Masters of Masonry, perpetuating the Princes of the Invisible Empire while expanding their influence.
Thus, the adepts were recruiting the Sons of Light {Lucifer's}, who were to form the Army of the Elect. These were instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us." The inner machinery of this program was too subtle to be captured in the pages of prosaic history. Only the consequences appeared as "effects deprived of their cause." As the philosophic program unfolded, the adepts revealed themselves as Princes of the Invisible Empire. p. 7 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
Thus, the adepts were recruiting the Sons of Light {Lucifer's}, who were to form the Army of the Elect. These were instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us." The inner machinery of this program was too subtle to be captured in the pages of prosaic history. Only the consequences appeared as "effects deprived of their cause." As the philosophic program unfolded, the adepts revealed themselves as Princes of the Invisible Empire.
p. 7 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
An "Army of the Elect" who have been active, whether in the Masonic Machine, in the New Age Movement, or in other spiritistic, occult societies are spoken of as remaining in readiness until "the day be with us." There is, therefore, much more to the occult conspiracy than the activities or the scope thereof which has been pursued by the members of occult fraternities thus far, which in themselves have been quite extensive.
The New Age movement refers to a spirit entity speaking through the body of a human as "channeling." One such entity of Lucifer's New Age movement is that of "Lord Maitreya." The unpeaceful designs of the powers behind the New Age movement are more than simply alluded to.
Through his human voice, Benjamin Creme, Lord Maitreya {the discarnate spirit} has arrogantly crowed:
The time of My Emergence has arrived; and soon how, in full vision and fact, My Face and Words will become known.
May you be among those who quickly find and recognize Me, for, if you do, you may become My Warriors.
My Army is now on the move and soon the clash of battle will be heard. The outcome of this battle is assured, for at my side are True Sons of God.
Take your places in the ranks of My Army, My friends, and create the New Time, the Time of God. p. 168 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988 {footnote: Benjamin Creme, Messages from Maitreya, pp. 42, 87}
Take your places in the ranks of My Army, My friends, and create the New Time, the Time of God.
p. 168 Mystery Mark of The New Age:
Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988
{footnote: Benjamin Creme, Messages from Maitreya, pp. 42, 87}
The New Age "Time of God" is the time of Lucifer.
"True" Masons do not simply form a power base in Mazzini's Masonic Machine. They become part of the inner machinery and become Lucifer's warriors who apply his seething energies.
When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft. The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly apply energy. p. 48 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976
When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft. The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly apply energy.
p. 48 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976
Manly P. Hall's (33rd degree) reference to the Mason as a "warrior" in applying the "seething energies of Lucifer" is not coincidental. Hall himself speaks of "the Army of the Elect" being "instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us."
To repeat and emphasize,
Warning, the following is a quotation ! Note: fancy brackets { } enclose America's Subversion's author's reference based on the "Masonic Light" source as "Lucifer."
Thus, the adepts were recruiting the Sons of Light {Lucifer's}, who were to form the Army of the Elect. These were instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us." ... p. 7 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
Thus, the adepts were recruiting the Sons of Light {Lucifer's}, who were to form the Army of the Elect. These were instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us." ...
The Masonic Machine is identified by the "illustrious" Manly P. Hall, 33rd Degree, as a War Machine, in effect, a Trojan War Machine holding within itself "the Army of the Elect ... instructed to remain in readiness until "the day be with us." That Masonic Trojan War Machine extolled by Hall is essentially represented by Albert Pike as penetrating society under pretenses, that is, by "false explanations," presenting "misinterpretations ... to mislead."
Masonic leaders reveal that the Masonic Machine has been at work, and their writings reveal ways in which it has been operating, but Hall's description evidently deals with aspects which go beyond the traditional behind-the-scenes activities engaged in thus far. Hall's other references such as those of "restoring the Mysteries" to their "rightful place" and having "adepts" gain public recognition as rulers have to do with ushering in a one-world government and a one-world religion.
To accomplish the groundwork for their "Plan" many guises, a multitude of veritable "Trojan Horses" of spiritistic or occult practices are used to obtain witting or unwitting support for their practices. The campaign involves, however, not simply corrupting the public with their programs, but of "forming" "the Army of the Elect."
The public campaign to recruit warriors for the occult conspiracy has manifested itself in a variety of New Age programs. As with the case of Alchemy, "science" is a term used to recruit persons into processes and techniques which work insidiously with the power of gradualism. The steps, the processes of New Age techniques lead to an ultimate objective, which is often hidden from newcomers.
Occult practices generally concealed within secret societies or co-opted by secret services have, in the public domain, been increasingly the "subject" of "research." The spiritualist movement founded psychic "research" organizations, while governments have kept the lid on the "research" as secret societies continued to work behind-the-scenes to influence political, religious and social developments.
Particularly since the 1960's, the counter-culture in America served as fertile soil for promoting mind-altering drugs, eastern mysticism, astrology, the occult, and spirit guides. In the 1980's mass marketing of New Age practices made even greater strides. In the 1990's, the emphasis on having the public adopt spiritistic practices, adopting "research" in psychic powers, has gained considerable momentum.
Ultimately, this research goes on in a very special laboratory: the mind and body of a single human being. Warriors throughout history have found the keys to that laboratory and the inexhaustible potential that lies behind its doors. Use the laboratory at your disposal and join us at the warrior's edge. p. 218 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Ultimately, this research goes on in a very special laboratory: the mind and body of a single human being. Warriors throughout history have found the keys to that laboratory and the inexhaustible potential that lies behind its doors. Use the laboratory at your disposal and join us at the warrior's edge.
p. 218 The Warrior's Edge,
Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The application made in the book The Warrior's Edge is not simply to personnel in the military, who are military "warriors." Techniques are therein specifically taught to the public to make psychic "warriors" out of persons in civilian life, and in business life. What is frightening is that the three authors of the book, The Warrior's Edge, having elite U.S. military backgrounds, teach techniques in which other human beings are put at the disposal of terrible psychic human rights violations.
Other human beings, as well as the practitioners themselves, become the "very special laboratory" at the level of "the mind and body of a single human being." The "warriors" are not taught fundamentally to exert psychic powers upon themselves and do war against themselves, but to apply their techniques in working their will upon others. The authors admit or propose that the terminology of spiritism has been changed, and that it serves utilitarian purposes in essentially undemonizing the appearance of techniques which they teach.
Adroits
One of the principle methods of operation still in use at the time of the writing of this book has been substantial concealment of purpose by Masonry, by the New Age movement. The goal of "re-incarnation," of "permeating" the "mind-brain" of humans to incarnate discarnate spirit entities would no doubt have traditionally had less success if they had just come right out with it. Just as Satan, or Lucifer, and his demons have presented themselves under other names, they have presented themselves, their agents, and their techniques with skillful camouflage.
Illuminism in reality is less an Order than a principle, and a principle which can work better under cover of something else. Weishaupt himself had laid down the precept that the work of Illuminism could best be conducted "under other names and other occupations," and henceforth we shall always find it carried on by this skilful system of camouflage. p. 236 Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster, 1924
Illuminism in reality is less an Order than a principle, and a principle which can work better under cover of something else. Weishaupt himself had laid down the precept that the work of Illuminism could best be conducted "under other names and other occupations," and henceforth we shall always find it carried on by this skilful system of camouflage.
p. 236 Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster, 1924
One is struck not simply with the adroitness with which many proponents of the New Age present their techniques, but one is sometimes struck by their candidness.
Language can play a powerful part in the change of beliefs. Sometimes changing the words used to describe an item or event can have great impact. For example, most people believe that it is wrong to kill another human being, yet we send our young off to war and expect them to rapidly change their beliefs and begin killing on command. To facilitate this change, we often use new words, commonly racist in nature, to describe the enemy.
... because words can have positive as well as negative power, we will teach you some new words for new capabilities. p. 24 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
... because words can have positive as well as negative power, we will teach you some new words for new capabilities.
p. 24 The Warrior's Edge,
The authors teach that "the shaman of the past becomes the techno-shaman of today." The reader should note that although the authors point to the usefulness of changing the words or language in order to change a person's beliefs, it is, perhaps, more accurate to say in connection with the quoted expression that new words are being used for old capabilities, capabilities formerly concealed from the public by means of secret societies and by means of governments which had co-opted the use of psychic powers in espionage.
However, due to concealment of the use and very existence of many human rights violating psychic powers, many persons in the general public would no doubt regard such powers as new to them. Yet, the authors seem to have done quite well in describing a process in which "to facilitate this change {of beliefs} we often use new words ..." The "old" words used therein to describe what it is that they are doing seem to be quite adequate to convey the meaning or import of their mission.
Contextually, the example which the authors use is intriguing, because they use a moral issue, and as will be demonstrated from their own book, moral or ethical barriers in adopting amoral methods which they teach for application by the general public, is what they evidently attempt to dismantle. Techno-shaman ? Adroit language.
The "shaman" of today and of the past has relied on spirit guides. Similarly, spiritualists also have relied on "spirit guides," which have facilitated what are known as psychic powers mediumistically produced, whether in a complete or partial trance state, typically in an altered state of consciousness. Modern spiritualism began in 1848 with the Fox sisters in upstate New York.
When a spirit engaged in fierce bangings and rappings at their new home, the Fox sisters responded by speaking to the spirit and received answers with knocks. Other manifestations followed, spiritualist circles formed and interest in spirit mediumship spread. Séances and spirit mediumship became the rage in America and Europe. Spirit guides imparted teachings upon which doctrinal beliefs were formed and spirit mediums who operated in a partial trance condition exhibited psychic powers such as telepathy.
New terminology, new language is designed to attribute such spirit entity induced effects on the human brain in such a way as to divert attention away from the true source of powers, at least until such a time that the individual is addicted to occult practices.
When shorn of spiritualism and trained by scientific method, the shaman of the past becomes the techno-shaman of today, a psychic warrior capable of using the tools of science to reveal the secrets hidden within the human mind. p. 10 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
When shorn of spiritualism and trained by scientific method, the shaman of the past becomes the techno-shaman of today, a psychic warrior capable of using the tools of science to reveal the secrets hidden within the human mind.
p. 10 The Warrior's Edge,
Hooking electrodes up to a person's brain while he is in a trance state or while he is "channeling" a spirit entity does not make "science" out of spiritism. "Tools of science" ? Does a shaman with one or more spirit guides become a "techno-shaman" if he utilizes measuring instruments ? The yogi meditation practices of Eastern mystics have enabled the entry of discarnate beings to communicate with elderly persons and supposedly prepared them for the "next life" in their later years and has been modernized for the West.
The issue of emptying one's mind and the application of particular breathing techniques to enter trance states are exposed in a later discussion, but the reader is no doubt already informed about the "Kundalini force," evidently employed by the Templars and Rosicrucians, which is involved in Tantric, or sexual yoga. Adroitly, persons are led into dangerous spiritistic fields while being told those fields are "science" fields.
Kundalini yoga had its origins in ancient India thousands of years ago. ...
The military application of kundalini yoga dates back over five thousand years, to the time when powerful individuals known as rishis developed (over generations) control and mastery of kundalini yoga.
In both military and civilian life, there are many potential applications of advanced breathing techniques. p. 163 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
In both military and civilian life, there are many potential applications of advanced breathing techniques.
p. 163 The Warrior's Edge,
The kundalini "serpent" force is now packaged as science, and the contrivance is obvious.
Because of the flagrant misrepresentation and mislabeling, many purchasers of what they have been persuaded are scientific methods for developing their full potential are in fact being led into religious beliefs and practices.
Transcendental meditation (TM) is a typical example of New Age misrepresentation. When Maharishi Mahes Yogi first introduced TM to the West, he openly taught that it was a Hindu religious practice and that its real purpose was to produce "a legendary substance ... in the meditator's body so the Gods of the Hindu pantheon could be fed and awakened!" But when he was denied access to public schools and government funding on the grounds that he was promoting religious practices, Maharishi quickly deleted all reference to religion and began presenting TM as a science. Nothing was changed except the labels. This deception has been furthered by the many celebrities, athletes, psychiatrists, and other leaders who have practiced and promoted TM, some no doubt without recognizing that it is in fact pure Hinduism. p. 47 The New Spirituality: A Consumer's Guide to the Exploding Mystical Marketplace, Dave Hunt & T.A. McMahon,1988 {Formerly titled: America: the sorcerer's new apprentice}
Transcendental meditation (TM) is a typical example of New Age misrepresentation. When Maharishi Mahes Yogi first introduced TM to the West, he openly taught that it was a Hindu religious practice and that its real purpose was to produce "a legendary substance ... in the meditator's body so the Gods of the Hindu pantheon could be fed and awakened!"
But when he was denied access to public schools and government funding on the grounds that he was promoting religious practices, Maharishi quickly deleted all reference to religion and began presenting TM as a science. Nothing was changed except the labels. This deception has been furthered by the many celebrities, athletes, psychiatrists, and other leaders who have practiced and promoted TM, some no doubt without recognizing that it is in fact pure Hinduism.
p. 47 The New Spirituality:
A Consumer's Guide to the Exploding Mystical Marketplace,
Dave Hunt & T.A. McMahon,1988
{Formerly titled: America: the sorcerer's new apprentice}
Do measurable changes in the respiration, heart rate or EKG patterns make yogi practice a "science" ? Outright intense demon possession in voodoo ceremonies also have measurable effects. What is the agency of the effects produced ?
While psychic powers, which have been for the most part covered-up by secret societies and national governments, are now being mass marketed to the public, in many of the presentations the real source of the psychic powers continues to be covered-up for the public.
The "new word" "science" is used to obfuscate the source of supernatural entity-intervening activities. The "skillful camouflage" of "changing the words" makes it easier for persons to get involved in practices which they might otherwise avoid, and avoid strenuously.
Only the multidisciplined warrior, the techno-shaman, can scale the walls of ignorance and shed light over the prevailing darkness. The warrior spirit must guide this process. So we will teach you how to become warriors in the spirit, as well as the physical, realm. p. 14 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Only the multidisciplined warrior, the techno-shaman, can scale the walls of ignorance and shed light over the prevailing darkness. The warrior spirit must guide this process. So we will teach you how to become warriors in the spirit, as well as the physical, realm.
p. 14 The Warrior's Edge,
Very adroit.
It is learned from a variety of sources promoting psychic powers that eventually, the practitioner learns that spirit guides are at the core of psychic powers. Quite literally, it is "the spirit... realm" through which the person obtains the means to become a "psychic warrior." It is quite literally a spirit guide, or warrior guide, which opens the psychic eye, which permeates the "brain-mind," which transforms the person, even transmutes the person.
Language can be not only adroit, but disarming.
Because this is a book about human potential, the nature of reality, and "psychic" phenomena, we will present a new perspective, showing how psychic phenomena fit into a quantum-mechanical model of reality. The misnomer psychic is particularly unfortunate, given the number of tricksters and charlatans who have appropriated it, because psychic, or psi, potential are within the grasp of everyone. If an individual realizes that these phenomena are not unnatural, the work of the devil, or the province of social deviants, the results of this training can be a greater confidence, a more effective and integrated sense of self, and dominion over a wide range of human experience. p. 10 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Because this is a book about human potential, the nature of reality, and "psychic" phenomena, we will present a new perspective, showing how psychic phenomena fit into a quantum-mechanical model of reality. The misnomer psychic is particularly unfortunate, given the number of tricksters and charlatans who have appropriated it, because psychic, or psi, potential are within the grasp of everyone. If an individual realizes that these phenomena are not unnatural, the work of the devil, or the province of social deviants, the results of this training can be a greater confidence, a more effective and integrated sense of self, and dominion over a wide range of human experience.
The authors assert that "psychic phenomena" fits "into a quantum-mechanical model of reality. The authors present four models and state that "No one knows which, if any, of these models is the correct one." "If any" ? "No one knows" ? The "no one knows" "new perspective" using a "change in words" to take the spiritualism out of shamanism is not exactly what one might call a "reality map."
For that matter, psychic test results reported in the book The Mind Race disproves the postulated link the Russians made between psychic phenomena and electromagnetic brain waves. Having in mind the "scientific method" experiments in The Mind Race, it is easy to come to the conclusion, although the authors of The Warrior's Edge use the expression "when trained in scientific method," that the "techno-shaman" in reality becomes the "shaman."
In the following chapters, we will unroll a reality map that includes telepathy, psychokinesis, and manipulation of time by the human mind. To perform extraordinary acts, some warriors need only faith. {this is followed by 4 models of psi} No one knows which, if any, of these models is the correct one. No one knows for certain how consciousness interacts with the phenomenal world. p. 111 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
In the following chapters, we will unroll a reality map that includes telepathy, psychokinesis, and manipulation of time by the human mind. To perform extraordinary acts, some warriors need only faith.
{this is followed by 4 models of psi}
No one knows which, if any, of these models is the correct one. No one knows for certain how consciousness interacts with the phenomenal world.
p. 111 The Warrior's Edge,
This chapter further demonstrates from the statements of the authors of The Warrior's Edge that the claim that psychic phenomena is not the work of the devil is a diversionary claim, specious. The preponderant contradictions of the positions proposed in matters of morality or ethics demonstrate that the very essence of what is taught in such a book personifies evil, personifies sinister violations of the human body and of the human will.
This analysis is necessary to better understand how the term science is falsely used to facilitate the entry of evil, discarnate entities into the human soul, and how individuals, groups and nations subvert foundation principles of the Bill of Rights of the U.S. Constitution.
War on a Civilian Population
The authors of The Warrior's Edge promote the use of "psychic phenomena" and teach techniques to achieve and implement such powers. Having admitted that "changing the words ... can have great impact," and that "when shorn of spiritualism ... the shaman of the past becomes the techno-shaman of today, a psychic warrior," it is important to examine what their ethical base is which they publicly advocate to those whom they teach.
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. Recognize what you are doing; we do. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic. p. 216 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. Recognize what you are doing; we do. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic.
p. 216 The Warrior's Edge,
It's actually in black and white.
Achieving one's objectives by the manipulation of others is advocated and described as the warrior ethic. Integrity is explained or defined in terms of ruthlessness and duplicity. These characteristics are at the heart of what they refer to as the warrior's edge, and they openly declare that they are practicers of what they preach.
The discipline required is the discipline of the open mind. That discipline is at the heart of what we call the warrior's edge.
... we are practitioners of what we preach. p. 14 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
... we are practitioners of what we preach.
Operating with such a declared and advocated foundation of ruthlessness, duplicity and the manipulation of others, the author's would persuade you that psychic phenomena is not "the work of the devil," and feel confident that "the warrior spirit must guide this process. So we will teach you how to become warriors in the spirit ... realm."
The author's have certainly come up with "new words" for integrity, and appear to attempt to redefine other words, but an analysis of the methods advocated to acquire psychic power will continue to point to the actual spirit realm as the source of psychic power, and actual spirit guides, to guide the psychic warrior process.
So what is meant by "influence technologies" ? First it should be observed that the authors themselves refer to the means which are used as "technologies." The invasion of privacy, the intrusion upon the property, bodies and minds of other human beings is referred to as technology.
There are certainly laws explicit and implicit in the United States Constitution and supporting bodies of laws against the violation of fundamental human rights. Yet, the example of the Russians apparently poses no deterrent to the advocacy of fundamentally egregious human rights violating "technologies."
... the Russians identify ... the following discrete skills:
... telepathy (using the human mind to tap into the thoughts of others)
... remote viewing (to see or otherwise monitor events occurring at a distant location)
... psychokinesis (PK -- altering or affecting molecular states)
All these phenomena involve using the mind and/or some "field" of the body to affect other minds and inanimate objects, sometimes at a distance, without the intervention of conventional mechanisms such as electronics or tools.
Of all the categories listed above, one of the most useful and interesting is remote viewing, sometimes called remote perception or remote sensing. Remote viewing allows a practitioner to acquire information irrespective of intervening distance -- or elapsed time. This capability has obvious intelligence-gathering potential, and studies at Stanford Research Institute, as well as other research, verify it's usefulness. Think of what it would be like to be able to learn, in advance, what a competitor or an ally is thinking or to know the plans or state of mind of another person, even if that person is half a world away. Other governments have. p. 11 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Of all the categories listed above, one of the most useful and interesting is remote viewing, sometimes called remote perception or remote sensing. Remote viewing allows a practitioner to acquire information irrespective of intervening distance -- or elapsed time. This capability has obvious intelligence-gathering potential, and studies at Stanford Research Institute, as well as other research, verify it's usefulness.
Think of what it would be like to be able to learn, in advance, what a competitor or an ally is thinking or to know the plans or state of mind of another person, even if that person is half a world away. Other governments have.
p. 11 The Warrior's Edge,
Psychic means or methods which the authors direct the reader's or psychic "warrior's" attention to include telepathy, using a definition not simply of communicating from mind to mind by cooperative participants but of "using the human mind to tap into the thoughts of others." The authors speak of 'affecting other minds as well as inanimate objects' "sometimes at a distance" by obviously clandestine means and refer to the term "psychokinesis" or PK.
They promote psychic "remote viewing" and spur the potential psychic warrior into contemplating "what it would be like to learn ... what a competitor ... is thinking or to know the plans or state of mind of another person" even at a distance. The authors attempt to discard the thought that the enabling forces involved are "the work of the devil" and portray the human rights violating methods as "technology."
Regardless of whether the authors speak of "intervention" without "conventional mechanisms such as electronics or tools," persons who invent or deploy new, unconventional mechanisms or devise other unconventional inventions would be in deep trouble if they tapped into White House telephone conversations. Tapping into your competitor's telephone or office conversations is not a right which the Founding Fathers of America secured in the Bill of Rights. The Fourth Amendment of the Constitution expressly protects fundamental human rights.
On the issue of "influence technology," there is a preponderant difference between inviting someone to lunch and presenting logical arguments for buying your wares compared to clandestinely slipping a drug into someone's coffee, hypnotizing a person and thereby getting him to sign on the dotted line. Promoting psychically "... using the mind ... to affect other minds ... at a distance" represents an assault on America's Constitutional fiber.
"Using influence technologies ... {to} achieve your objective by the manipulation of others" has brought the "enemy" of human rights into the public sector in the name of the "techno-shaman." Fundamentally it is very difficult to disguise such a grotesque violation of human rights, whether through a euphemistic vehicle entitled "science project," or by having a bumper sticker reading "techno-shaman."
Even in the Soviet Union a psychic who evidently refused to participate in "research" to psychically influence others exclaimed, "I will never do your dirty work."
The Soviets may recently have encountered problems in obtaining individuals willing to participate in research designed to psychically influence others. One unidentified psychic is quoted on film as telling Soviet psi researchers, "I will never do your dirty work." This type of response from gifted subjects may influence the future of Soviet research and development in the field of psychotronics. p. 151 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The Soviets may recently have encountered problems in obtaining individuals willing to participate in research designed to psychically influence others. One unidentified psychic is quoted on film as telling Soviet psi researchers, "I will never do your dirty work." This type of response from gifted subjects may influence the future of Soviet research and development in the field of psychotronics.
p. 151 The Warrior's Edge,
The issue of "psychic influence," consciously acting to influence or manipulate others through the use of psychic powers has well been described in the former Soviet Empire by one dissenter as "dirty work." The thrust and focus of The Warrior's Edge is not written diplomacy skills but the acquisition and application of psychic powers to influence and manipulate others.
The warrior must be able to consciously influence others. Just as politics is a controlled attempt to influence a domestic constituency, diplomacy is a measured attempt to exert national will upon another nation or group of nations. When an attempt at international influence breaks down and global imperatives are not met, warfare often results. p. 44 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The warrior must be able to consciously influence others. Just as politics is a controlled attempt to influence a domestic constituency, diplomacy is a measured attempt to exert national will upon another nation or group of nations. When an attempt at international influence breaks down and global imperatives are not met, warfare often results.
p. 44 The Warrior's Edge,
Strange, indeed. Haven't wars been fought to preserve the rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights ? If psychic warfare and "exerting national will upon another" is what the quoted authors would recommend to avert warfare, watch out ! Such exertion efforts to impose one nations' will upon another has caused warfare.
With that "new" understanding of "diplomacy," one can certainly see that the Third Reich certainly had more than it's share of "diplomats" using The Warrior's Edge definitions. Where "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" have applied, the "new age" of the Third Reich certainly was not caught short in the area which is newly defined as "absolute integrity."
Adopting the teachings of The Warrior's Edge appears to be less a case of "requiring" "the open mind," analytically, as it is of "emptying the mind" of the precepts which the Founding Fathers declared in writing.
Empty Minds - The Devil's Workplace
Emptying the mind of fundamental principles of ethics and fundamental human rights underlies psychic influence, manipulation and intrusion.
Further, emptying the mind of all or virtually all thoughts is an occult technique taught to open the mind to spiritistic influence. To facilitate emptying the mind of one's own thoughts, the participant is taught to "free the mind of all thought's via detachment" or to concentrate on one point or "one chosen thought, without interruption", which effectively excludes the thought process from the human mind.
Our second mental exercise uses repetitious sounds or tonal vibrations that have no particular meaning but are useful in emptying the mind. One sound that is familiar to most people is om, or aum. This ancient Sanskrit world is said to replicate the basic sound of the universe. Such chants, used around the world, often have a very soothing effect. The purpose of the pure monosyllabic tonal qualities of aum is one of repetition, to free the mind of all thoughts via detachment, rather than to analyze complex and abstract concepts.
While the tonal approach is not recommended for use in the workplace, it is of great benefit when creating deeper states of relaxation within yourself. These states, once mastered, can also be instantly accessed with sufficient training. p. 35 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
While the tonal approach is not recommended for use in the workplace, it is of great benefit when creating deeper states of relaxation within yourself. These states, once mastered, can also be instantly accessed with sufficient training.
p. 35 The Warrior's Edge,
Stilling the conscious mind" is the ultimate objective of techniques promoted. The security of a person's mind from outside influence in "these states", whether in civilian or military life, is also at issue.
Remember, ultimately your purpose is to control your mind, to be able to think one chosen thought, without interruption, for as long as you desire.
The next exercise in our arsenal of mental techniques for quieting the mind is meditation. Stilling the conscious mind is the ultimate idea of meditation, a preliminary step toward focusing mental powers on a single point. Many members of the military practice meditation; it has never been adopted as a training technique, although several proposals to do this have been put forward. p. 36 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The next exercise in our arsenal of mental techniques for quieting the mind is meditation. Stilling the conscious mind is the ultimate idea of meditation, a preliminary step toward focusing mental powers on a single point. Many members of the military practice meditation; it has never been adopted as a training technique, although several proposals to do this have been put forward.
p. 36 The Warrior's Edge,
Subsequently, or consequently, "external thoughts may intrude." Stilling the conscious mind" is the ultimate objective of a variety of techniques which allow or are designed to invite "intruding thoughts," through which the enemy enters within.
As you practice any of the described techniques, external thoughts may intrude. ... One solution is to gently acknowledge the thought and then return to your word or sound.
Do not become distracted by focusing on the intruding thought; you may then find it more difficult to banish the thought from your mind. For this reason, we suggest acknowledging the thought before returning to the exercise. Often, the intruding thought is an answer to a problem you have been unable to solve. By acknowledging that you have received the information and will work on it later, your subconscious mind should stop intruding and allow you to return to the activity. p. 36 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Do not become distracted by focusing on the intruding thought; you may then find it more difficult to banish the thought from your mind. For this reason, we suggest acknowledging the thought before returning to the exercise. Often, the intruding thought is an answer to a problem you have been unable to solve. By acknowledging that you have received the information and will work on it later, your subconscious mind should stop intruding and allow you to return to the activity.
The idea of acknowledging "external thoughts which intrude" while having blanked out one's own mind is by no means unique to The Warrior's Edge. It represents one of the more advanced techniques of Neuro Linguistic Programming in which hypnotic techniques are applied to oneself and to others. It also represents the path of Eastern Mysticism.
The mind thereby closes itself to one's own thoughts and opens to the entry of the influence of discarnate spirits. The authors speak of the subconscious mind as imposing with intruding thoughts, but the results of the steps are by no means explained in terms of the actions of simply a "subconscious mind."
The authors' concept of controlling one's mind is by means of a method by which one's thought processes are shut down. "The purpose ... is ... to free the mind of all thoughts ... rather than to analyze complex and abstract concepts." That's one way to come up with "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" as answers to the question "What is integrity ?"
New Age leader and wife to 33rd Degree Mason Foster Bailey wrote this about the subject of the impressionability of the human mind at what she describes as the unconscious, or subconscious, level.
1. Those possessing unconscious receptivity to telepathic impression. ...
Under this group we must, therefore, class all mediumistic phenomena, even those of the highest astral or spiritual nature ... p. 88 Telepathy, Alice A. Bailey, 1950
Under this group we must, therefore, class all mediumistic phenomena, even those of the highest astral or spiritual nature ...
p. 88 Telepathy, Alice A. Bailey, 1950
Alice Bailey is noted for transcribing teachings of a New Age spirit guide, Djwhal Khul. For authors' to speak of activity at the "subconscious" or "unconscious" level does not necessarily mean that a person's own mind is the source of information provided. New Age leader Alice Bailey has referred to "unconscious receptivity to telepathic impression." The association is made to that of spirit beings impressing thoughts on the individual mediumistically.
One path to the opening of the psychic eye, or mediumistic phenomena, begins with such exercises of consciously blanking out one's own thoughts and the willingness to have thoughts intrude and responding to them. What does this path lead to ?
2, Those who are developing or have developed a conscious receptivity wherein the impression is, first of all, received by the mind and then imparted to and registered by the brain. The one who is the impressing agent in this case works via the centre between the eyebrows, the ajna centre.
With this last mentioned type of communication, there will be found mixed certain messages or impressions ...
... the disciple begins to realize certain differences, a new type of registration will awaken and guide the disciple's consciousness. p. 88 Telepathy, Alice A. Bailey, 1950
... the disciple begins to realize certain differences, a new type of registration will awaken and guide the disciple's consciousness.
Such exercises as proposed by The Warrior's Edge, as well as methods involving person to person initiation, can lead to the "opening of the psychic eye." From the body of information available from practitioners or former practitioners, there are changes which take place in the thought processes of the individual, which might be expected when a "point of consciousness" with a discarnate being is established.
Schnoebelen and many others refer to it as "illumination." Alice Bailey speaks of "a new type of registration" awakening and guiding the disciple's consciousness. The Warrior's Edge speaks of the "warrior spirit" which guides the process. That actual spirit guides are involved in the process of acquiring psychic powers is referred to by Dr. Richard Lawrence, a "leading psychic practitioner" in his 1993 book Unlock your Psychic Powers.
Dr. Lawrence, while promoting psychic powers, alerts persons to dangers of blanking out one's mind and what such exercises can lead to. Critically, it can be observed that books promoting the acquisition or development of psychic powers often leave the substantial warnings to the end or near end of the book, if they contain them at all.
I know of cases where people have successfully practiced mediumship using a semiconscious trance condition. They have found that although the results of the mediumship were very good and helpful in every way, this practice, over a period of time, started to undermine their own willpower. By constantly allowing others to take them over, even partially, and hence giving up some of their sense of will and control over their consciousness to guides on a frequent basis, a certain undermining was taking place of their mental capacity and they became mentally weaker as a result. p. 94 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential, Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
I know of cases where people have successfully practiced mediumship using a semiconscious trance condition. They have found that although the results of the mediumship were very good and helpful in every way, this practice, over a period of time, started to undermine their own willpower.
By constantly allowing others to take them over, even partially, and hence giving up some of their sense of will and control over their consciousness to guides on a frequent basis, a certain undermining was taking place of their mental capacity and they became mentally weaker as a result.
p. 94 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential,
Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
Dr. Lawrence is referring to interposing spirit guides. Although he deserves credit for not speaking of "techno-shamans," for many persons finding intense warnings at the end of a how-to-do-it-book might seem a bit like finding a toxic warning label inside the bottom of a box of stuff which you ordinarily might not even want to touch, let alone eat.
The shock alone from reading the warning label at the bottom of the box of stuff you just ate could be quite hazardous in itself.
Lesser states than this, however, require anything from a partial to a complete negation of conscious mental control in order to be taken over by the communicating entity. The reason for this is that the operation of the conscious mind is an obstacle to the psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness, and unless you are able to tap the full powers of your superconsciousness, as for example in the Samadhic trance referred to, then a partial mental vacuum is left by you for an outside entity to occupy. Once this mental vacuum has been created, an overshadowing entity can use it exactly as it chooses. In extreme cases, such as certain tribal rites where alcohol, sex and even animal sacrifices are used to encourage the medium, native doctor or priest of the tribe to enter the trance state, the condition used may be extremely dangerous. Almost an entire mental vacuum is created within the person. He or she can then be 'taken over' by whatever entity so chooses, and judging by some of the rituals performed in these tribes, the entity is not a very pleasant or positive one. It is foolish to dismiss such rites and ceremonies as meaningless nonsense -- in certain cases powerful magic is performed on these occasions. But they are certainly dangerous, and can attract malicious and evil entities to overshadow the blanked-out mind of the medium, or even cause the medium to become mentally deranged.
Lesser states than this, however, require anything from a partial to a complete negation of conscious mental control in order to be taken over by the communicating entity. The reason for this is that the operation of the conscious mind is an obstacle to the psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness, and unless you are able to tap the full powers of your superconsciousness, as for example in the Samadhic trance referred to, then a partial mental vacuum is left by you for an outside entity to occupy.
Once this mental vacuum has been created, an overshadowing entity can use it exactly as it chooses. In extreme cases, such as certain tribal rites where alcohol, sex and even animal sacrifices are used to encourage the medium, native doctor or priest of the tribe to enter the trance state, the condition used may be extremely dangerous. Almost an entire mental vacuum is created within the person. He or she can then be 'taken over' by whatever entity so chooses, and judging by some of the rituals performed in these tribes, the entity is not a very pleasant or positive one.
It is foolish to dismiss such rites and ceremonies as meaningless nonsense -- in certain cases powerful magic is performed on these occasions. But they are certainly dangerous, and can attract malicious and evil entities to overshadow the blanked-out mind of the medium, or even cause the medium to become mentally deranged.
I have met victims of negative trance, who have attempted to commune with the deceased or even perform other practices which involved blanking out the mind and with it part of the will.. Some of these have become fully or partially possessed. There is sometimes a narrow dividing line between mental illness and psychic delusion.
... for many psychological illnesses are related to both psychological disturbance and psychic interference. p. 97 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential, Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
... for many psychological illnesses are related to both psychological disturbance and psychic interference.
p. 97 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential,
One must admit, if Dr. Lawrence would state such warnings at the beginning of his book, it could put the chill on a desire to "Unlock Your Psychic Powers."
Yet, even with the stark disclosures which Dr. Lawrence makes, one does not get the full story.
Examine the statement:
" ... the operation of the conscious mind is an obstacle to the psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness, and unless you are able to tap the full powers of your superconsciousness, as for example in the Samadhic trance referred to, then a partial mental vacuum is left by you for an outside entity to occupy." p. 97 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential, Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
" ... the operation of the conscious mind is an obstacle to the psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness, and unless you are able to tap the full powers of your superconsciousness, as for example in the Samadhic trance referred to, then a partial mental vacuum is left by you for an outside entity to occupy."
The evident inference is that if "the Samadhic trance" is achieved, one does not need to worry about a "psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness", that one need not worry about a "partial mental vacuum ... for an outside entity to occupy." Manly P. Hall, 33rd degree Mason, explains that the ultimate state of illumination or "samadhi" involves casting aside the mind "as a snare and a delusion."
The Buddhist priest entering into Nirvana, and the Brahman bridging the chasm between mortal consciousness and samadhi, both cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion; yet without it the very principles upon which they work would be incomprehensible to them. The Eastern mind, endeavoring to annihilate the unreal and mingle itself with the Real, depends first upon the intellect to reveal the processes of illumination and the reasonableness of their abstract conceptions. The Western schools of philosophy differ from the Eastern in the they teach the perfection of the mind before its rejection, whereas the Eastern schools are prone to regard the mind as a hindrance, to be discarded at the very beginning of spiritual growth. Thus the Eastern mystic with his own nature slays the mind, while the Western philosopher, by elevating the mind to a realization of its own insufficiency, causes the intellect voluntarily to offer itself as a willing sacrifice upon the altar of spirit. p. 67 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals Manly P. Hall, 1984
The Buddhist priest entering into Nirvana, and the Brahman bridging the chasm between mortal consciousness and samadhi, both cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion; yet without it the very principles upon which they work would be incomprehensible to them. The Eastern mind, endeavoring to annihilate the unreal and mingle itself with the Real, depends first upon the intellect to reveal the processes of illumination and the reasonableness of their abstract conceptions.
The Western schools of philosophy differ from the Eastern in the they teach the perfection of the mind before its rejection, whereas the Eastern schools are prone to regard the mind as a hindrance, to be discarded at the very beginning of spiritual growth. Thus the Eastern mystic with his own nature slays the mind, while the Western philosopher, by elevating the mind to a realization of its own insufficiency, causes the intellect voluntarily to offer itself as a willing sacrifice upon the altar of spirit.
p. 67 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals
Manly P. Hall, 1984
This is a good description to deliver to persons before they line up for "the Samadhic trance" who have the idea that they can avoid a "psychic entity who wishes to overshadow your consciousness" and that one need not worry about a "partial mental vacuum ... for an outside entity to occupy" with the Samadhic consciousness, or "super-consciousness."
It should make a person reconsider deciding to "cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion." The Lucifer "Lie" is the "snare and a delusion." The process of "illumination" or the process described as "evolution" "to godhood" is a process of casting one's own mind aside and having another entity overshadow and eclipse one's own mind.
"Intuition" - The Troy Defense
The process of "stilling the conscious mind" or of "emptying the mind" to enable "external thoughts" to "intrude" is the basis for what The Warrior's Edge characterizes as "intuitive decision making." It is the "Troy Defense," opening the barriers of the mind to give the enemy access to enter within.
To quiet the mind, there are two different approaches you may employ. One is a process of concentration; the other, a process of detachment. Both are good techniques. p. 34 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
To quiet the mind, there are two different approaches you may employ. One is a process of concentration; the other, a process of detachment. Both are good techniques.
p. 34 The Warrior's Edge,
Concentrating on one point to the exclusion of others, shutting down the active thought process is one technique whereas "detachment" by emptying the mind of thoughts directly is another Trojan technique. Defense by opening or dismantling one's barriers which otherwise prevent or limit the entry of the enemy or the enemy's devices represents "defense" through making oneself vulnerable, susceptible.
The process of detaching one's mind, practicing "casting it aside" forms the first step in New Age "intuitive decision making." It is a first step to providing space "for an outside entity to occupy."
Defense through intuitive decision making is defense through detection and countermeasure. We have told you how intuition has saved lives and careers. Listen to what your heart tells you. Never shut out your intuition. It is your link to the warrior's edge. p. 216 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Defense through intuitive decision making is defense through detection and countermeasure. We have told you how intuition has saved lives and careers. Listen to what your heart tells you. Never shut out your intuition. It is your link to the warrior's edge.
Advising the readers "never {to} shut out your intuition" is like saying "never shut out" a Trojan Horse. The armed warriors inside the enemy's Greek Trojan Horse had the real warrior's edge when they emerged at night and opened the city's gates to a horde of invasive troops which then conquered the city. If Dr. Lawrence's warnings are not adequate testimony of ruined lives and careers, there is no shortage of supplemental testimony.
According to The Warrior's Edge authors, the key is to "set aside" one's "belief systems" of what constitutes the process of what they call "intuition," and to apply and use techniques and psychic powers at one's discretion.
Andrew Weil, in his book The Natural Mind, states, Intuitive flashes are transient, spontaneous altered states of consciousness consisting of particular sensory experience or thoughts, coupled with strong emotional reactions," and suggests that intuition is an internal process of rational or analytic thought.
Some psychologists argue that intuition, rather than being a supernatural or an unconscious process, is subliminally provided perception of data or insight already available to unconscious cueing. Rather than choose from among these explanations, we recommend that you temporarily set aside belief systems, apply the process we will describe and, if it works, continue to use it at your discretion. p. 118 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Some psychologists argue that intuition, rather than being a supernatural or an unconscious process, is subliminally provided perception of data or insight already available to unconscious cueing. Rather than choose from among these explanations, we recommend that you temporarily set aside belief systems, apply the process we will describe and, if it works, continue to use it at your discretion.
p. 118 The Warrior's Edge,
The term "intuition" is used as "new language" for old practices. The two examples given of attempts to define a term called "intuition" both attempt to exclude "supernatural" intervention or influence. In the first example, however, there is certainly no imperative to exclude the supernatural from what is described as "spontaneous altered states of consciousness consisting of particular sensory experience or thoughts."
The second example which is given and which represents an attempt to define "intuition" is even more intriguing in that it not only claims to discount "supernatural" intervention but goes on to suggest a meaning which fundamentally contradicts the objective of The Warrior's Edge process, that is, of obtaining information which is not "already available" to the person, as in "remote vision" wherein human eyes do not have access to "data" with their visual field of perception.
What the authors recommend is to set aside one's beliefs and simply to use techniques which they teach and advocate at the student's discretion, which "discretion" is not founded on ethical or moral standards such as are enfranchised in the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights.
The objective of The Warrior's Edge training is to blank the mind for the purpose of having "external thoughts ... intrude." The authors do not argue that in the practice of telepathy, in which the thoughts of one person are conveyed to another or "read" by another, that the thoughts "perceived" do not originate from an "external source." The authors of The Warrior's Edge even report results of personal experiments giving evidence that thoughts can be transferred from one person to another, (pages 182 - 185, The Warrior's Edge).
If the inference of the authors is that the "external thoughts {which} ... intrude" in their mind-emptying exercises are of internal origin, and not from an outside source, it does not form a convincing argument consistent with the body of information which they themselves present.
The authors specifically refer to telepathy and psychokinesis and state,
"All these phenomena involve using the mind and/or some "field" of the body to affect other minds and inanimate objects, sometimes at a distance, without the intervention of conventional mechanisms .... We will discuss the methods researchers are using to document these types of abilities and show how a person can, through training, acquire these skills." [page 11, The Warrior's Edge].
"All these phenomena involve using the mind and/or some "field" of the body to affect other minds and inanimate objects, sometimes at a distance, without the intervention of conventional mechanisms .... We will discuss the methods researchers are using to document these types of abilities and show how a person can, through training, acquire these skills."
[page 11, The Warrior's Edge].
The two examples wherein "intuition" is defined (as quoted) as not associated with the supernatural apparently represent an attempt by the authors to disassociate spiritualism or the "supernatural" from shamanism, and recommend to the student to set aside belief systems. The authors attempt to describe their mind-blanking process for obtaining "intruding thoughts" with a word not traditionally associated by the public with spiritualism. However, in spiritistic circles the word "intuition" is associated with psychic, spirit guide, or spirit contact influence.
As the Encyclopedia Britanica's discussion on spiritualism relates, traditional spirit mediums have gone into a deep trance, but the spiritualist movement unfolded spirit mediums who receive spirit messages while in a partial trance, or while retaining some measure of "consciousness." Although there appears to be more than one level of an altered state of consciousness which spirit mediums employ, and in which connection authors such as those of The Warrior's Edge speak of "instantly" "accessing" an altered state of psychic powers at will after training, there are common denominators in training persons to make contact with spirit guides or spirit guide messages.
Other than a séance, common methods of "spirit guide" contact involve consciously focusing or concentrating on one point or thought, or using hypnotic repetition to shut down or impair the person's thought processes. Thus the access by outside or intruding entities or spirits is facilitated.
Dr. Richard Lawrence who establishes an unmistakable link between psychic powers and spirit guides alludes to what is meant by the term "intuitive information."
... in relation to psychic gazing.
In gazing, you should not enter any trance condition but remain alert and focused upon an apparent vacuum which is then filled by the psychic and intuitive information you need to give the reading. p. 98 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential, Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
In gazing, you should not enter any trance condition but remain alert and focused upon an apparent vacuum which is then filled by the psychic and intuitive information you need to give the reading.
p. 98 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential,
Mediumistic states include deep trance states wherein the subject does not have any control of oneself or afterwards have a recollection of what transpired, as well as states wherein a person retains memory and consciousness. Blanking one's mind is a common denominator or common path. Focusing upon an apparent vacuum to be filled by psychic and intuitive information is what Dr. Richard Lawrence definitely links with spirit guides.
This is a process of creating a partial mental vacuum. It is therefore very disturbing for Dr. Lawrence to advocate the acquisition of psychic powers and the spirit guides which he himself identifies as being therewith associated, when he himself describes the menacing dangers and vulnerability which even a "partial mental vacuum" can result in. He wrote, "... then a partial mental vacuum is left by you for an outside entity to occupy.
Once this mental vacuum has been created, an overshadowing entity can use it exactly as it chooses." Corroborating the capacity of spirit guides to exert their own will upon others, Alice Bailey referred to "total Hierarchal impression by the time the disciple is a Master."
Dr. Lawrence further wrote,
In fact, some people deliberately blank their minds for the very reason that they wish to enter a trance over which they have no control so that they can be taken over by an outside entity or what they believe to be a god, ancestor or benign spirit. p. 67 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential, Dr. Richard Lawrence, 1993, (by a "leading psychic practitioner")
In fact, some people deliberately blank their minds for the very reason that they wish to enter a trance over which they have no control so that they can be taken over by an outside entity or what they believe to be a god, ancestor or benign spirit.
p. 67 Unlock Your Psychic Powers: Mastering One's Psychic Potential,
The Warrior's Edge would have you believe that blanking your mind and receiving "intruding" thoughts is what your "intuition" is composed of. In Masonry, the word "intuition" is also used.
Masonry has survived the ages because in truth and fact we have been guided by inspiration and by intuition, by the Grand Lodge on High ... p. 119 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
Masonry has survived the ages because in truth and fact we have been guided by inspiration and by intuition, by the Grand Lodge on High ...
p. 119 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
The external role of the so-called "Grand Lodge on High" is the role of discarnate spirit entities. The external nature of what is called "intuition" by those advocating psychic powers is quite apparent. To portray intruding entities as one's own subconscious is similar to calling the spirit guides one's "inner self." That is, in fact, exactly what is also done, and it will be discussed in another context later in this book.
The idea of defending oneself by arriving at answers by emptying one's mind of thoughts, shutting down the process of analytical thinking, tearing down the walls of the mind to invite in "intruding thoughts" to give us answers, equates to the "Troy Defense." It is a way in which even advocates in the field of psychic powers describe a means by which a person can "be taken over by the communicating entity."
Psychic authorities write of "other practices which involved blanking out the mind and with it part of the will. Some of these have become fully or partially possessed." Tearing down one's walls of the mind to permit access by unknown "wooden horses" with who knows what kinds of enemies inside comprises the "Troy Defense." The city was taken when it was at ease.
What is the career of the "psychic warrior" as the "psychic eye" opens, as the "point of contact between humans and Lucifer-consciousness" establishes itself ? It is a path in which discarnate entities "re-incarnate." It is a path toward complete possession. It is a path to avoid, to leave, not a path to follow.
The term proposed in The Warrior's Edge for stilling or quieting the mind of thought processes and readying oneself for intruding thoughts to solve complex problems without analysis is "intuition." It is an invitation for entities in the spirit realm who are willing to participate in outrageous violations of human minds and bodies, whether of the practitioner or of targeted victims, it is an invitation to spirits who are involved in the "Great Work" of re-incarnating themselves through human vehicles.
Invasive "Technologies"
The authors of The Warrior's Edge offer examples as verification that the invasive "technologies" which they teach are to be taken seriously, which contributes to their culpability. Consider the implications of applying such methods by civilians against civilians, the "warrior's edge."
Complications arose from remotely viewing a site at Semipalatinsk, a nuclear facility in Soviet Central Asia. The remote viewers described equipment that resembled the "accelerators and electron injectors" used in directed-energy experiments, hidden in an underground site. The remotely sensed information was rejected as not possible by the project sponsors. Several years later, Western intelligence sources learned the Soviets had the equipment described and were working beyond a level credited to them by the U.S. technical establishment. Again, the psychics were right. p. 148 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Complications arose from remotely viewing a site at Semipalatinsk, a nuclear facility in Soviet Central Asia. The remote viewers described equipment that resembled the "accelerators and electron injectors" used in directed-energy experiments, hidden in an underground site. The remotely sensed information was rejected as not possible by the project sponsors.
Several years later, Western intelligence sources learned the Soviets had the equipment described and were working beyond a level credited to them by the U.S. technical establishment. Again, the psychics were right.
p. 148 The Warrior's Edge,
Giving Luciferian entities access to impress thoughts or images into one's brain opens the door of one's mind to powerful manipulative forces. The person applying psychic, occult methods to invade the domains of others becomes a concentrated point of invasion himself. The person seeking to use occult, psychic forces to manipulate and control others has opened himself to manipulation and control. The person opening one's mind to psychic forces to exert his or her will upon another has opened up one's own mind acutely to such forces.
The "Trojan Horse Defense" is not the only technique taught in psychic training.
For now, we ask that you expand your belief system just enough to practice with these weapons we are offering and make them part of your arsenal, so that their use can become second nature and their competence can become your competence.
The result will be the warrior's edge. p. 25 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The result will be the warrior's edge.
p. 25 The Warrior's Edge,
The authors aren't only advocating devices. They are advocating "weapons," and encourage the reader to make their "weapons" part of one's "arsenal." The "warrior" reference by New Age channeler Benjamin Creme, the "Army of the Elect," and "warrior on the block" references by Manly P. Hall (33rd degree) and the reference to the "seething energies of Lucifer" all fit in with the Masonic, New Age, Illuminati warfare agenda.
"Expanding your belief system just enough to practice with these weapons we are offering" involves more than simply believing that the weapons of their "arsenal" have the capability of working, but involves discarding ethical beliefs embodied in the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights. The "invasive" techniques which the authors specifically teach and which are augmented by associated psychic techniques put foreword by similar authors is fittingly characterized as an "arsenal" for "psychic warriors."
The authors of The Warriors Edge use the expression "influence technologies," and speak of such "technologies" "Without the intervention of conventional mechanisms such as electronics or tools." Yet, the substance of the violations represented by the "technologies" promoted are no less in magnitude than those violations perpetrated with more commonly employed "technologies." "These ethical difficulties are not unlike those involved with the introduction of any other new, invasive technology." [The Warrior's Edge, p. 154]
In principle, the issue is not one of whether, let's say, electronics is used. The authors then point to the resolution of the "Ethical issues" to an "ad-hoc basis by practitioners." [The Warrior's Edge, p. 154]
The practices, the psychic weapons of manipulation and intrusion, of invasion, are fundamentally unethical, and to speak of "integrity" in the context of fundamentally unethical practices, particularly while promoting "ruthlessness" and "duplicity," does not hide the fact that the reader is being asked to adopt human rights violating techniques under cellophane camouflage. Manipulation is the name of the "psychic warrior" game.
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic. p. 216 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic.
The "warrior ethic" is strangely framed as acting "for the eventual benefit" of "others as well as yourself." Definitely a formulation which should set off alarm bells when the authors speak of "ruthlessness, duplicity" and "the manipulation of others."
The domain of New Age psychic practices has a set of philosophical tenets which are quite alarming.
As one scrutinizes the New Age / Masonic principle for "psychic malpractice" and "psychic victimization" one finds that it blames the victim for successful victimization (Chapter 9). The domain of psychic influence work includes Masonic Lodges (Chapter 9).
The "manipulation of others" is promoted as a fundamental principle.
To begin on the path of influence, you must envision where you wish to go or what you need to accomplish. You then develop a plan, sketch a rational road map for its execution, and see it through to fruition.
Most of us are aware that we're subjected to the art of influence every day. Whether by the news media, Madison Avenue, domestic politicians, or international propagandists, the effects of these influences are visible, if not always clear. Hidden agendas, subterfuges, and ploys are part of the art. Influence technology is a serious and potentially deadly game. p. 45 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Most of us are aware that we're subjected to the art of influence every day. Whether by the news media, Madison Avenue, domestic politicians, or international propagandists, the effects of these influences are visible, if not always clear. Hidden agendas, subterfuges, and ploys are part of the art. Influence technology is a serious and potentially deadly game.
p. 45 The Warrior's Edge,
To emphasize, the techniques promoted for "psychic warriors" are not, fundamentally, the written word, as in the case of conventional media influence. The techniques include means of causing not only mental harm but physical harm including death. Fundamentally, the very means which "psychic warriors" use embodies the word "subterfuge."
We know these techniques work.
You can take advantage of your physiological connection with the ordering force of the universe to become strong, to shape your future, to gain your heart's desire.
What you will do is in no way predicated on what you can do. Unfortunately, we cannot stop you from using these techniques to oppress your fellow, to achieve selfish ends at the expense of your society and the biosphere, or to become the worst that you can be.
Given that some will make effective use of these techniques without having learned the good judgment that years of training and risk instill, you may need to defend yourself against such people. p. 215 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Given that some will make effective use of these techniques without having learned the good judgment that years of training and risk instill, you may need to defend yourself against such people.
p. 215 The Warrior's Edge,
If a person "expands one's belief system" to adopt "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" as embodiments of "integrity," enough to make the outrageous human rights violating psychic powers "part of your arsenal" and to "practice with these weapons," it should come as no surprise that the student would "use these techniques to oppress your fellow" or "to achieve selfish ends at the expense of your society and the biosphere, or to become the worst that you can be."
In fact, considering the degradation of moral, ethical standards therein represented, the "dirty work," the human violations of mind and body, it comes as no surprise that the reader of the book The Warrior's Edge is warned about persons who "make effective use of these techniques" in that "you may need to defend yourself against such people."
It is not only "such people" whose "good judgment" is not molded by "risk" assessment that pose the danger, but it is such people whose judgment uses risk assessment, rather than human rights, as a fundamental guideline "against" whom "you may need to defend yourself."
To act effectively, the warrior must be able to expand beliefs to encompass new possibilities. By testing those possibilities personally, the warrior determines whether they offer an advantage--and if securing that advantage is worth the risk. The possibilities we use here to push reality's envelope are not risk free. p. 198 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
To act effectively, the warrior must be able to expand beliefs to encompass new possibilities. By testing those possibilities personally, the warrior determines whether they offer an advantage--and if securing that advantage is worth the risk. The possibilities we use here to push reality's envelope are not risk free.
p. 198 The Warrior's Edge,
It is not at all mitigating for the authors to characterize the persons against whom we need to defend ourselves as persons who "make effective use of these techniques" and who act as they do "without having learned the good judgment that years of training and risk instill."
When "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" are portrayed as "integrity," and when "good judgment" is formed by years of training and risk, one is left with the impression that the "years of training" enable a person to more so "make effective use of these techniques" in that "you may need to defend yourself against such people," and that it does not put one at ease if the person against whom "you may need to defend yourself against" is deterred more by" risk" than by moral or ethical principle.
The guideline "if securing that advantage is worth the risk" is a morally devoid way of learning so-called "good judgment." The training subtly uses words such as "integrity," but when examined more closely it is ethically vacuous if not also fundamentally bankrupt.
Applications of remote viewing to industrial espionage are not unthinkable. If remote viewing were used during early research and development phases, the target company would be without even the hypothetical protection of patent application.
These ethical difficulties are not unlike those involved with the introduction of any other new, invasive technology. Ethical issues of remote viewing will be settled on an ad-hoc basis by practitioners, whether or not a consensus of behavior eventually evolves.
The majority of researchers in this field come to the conclusion that there is an interconnectedness among all things. This premise has major implications for our beliefs and behaviors. Proponents of this concept suggest that information--in the form of consciousness--is a common ingredient throughout the universe. This universal interconnectedness may be the vehicle that allows remote viewing to operate. p. 154 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The majority of researchers in this field come to the conclusion that there is an interconnectedness among all things. This premise has major implications for our beliefs and behaviors. Proponents of this concept suggest that information--in the form of consciousness--is a common ingredient throughout the universe. This universal interconnectedness may be the vehicle that allows remote viewing to operate.
p. 154 The Warrior's Edge,
The "implications" for "beliefs and behaviors" in the "premise" work which psychics have been doing have already been established fundamentally, that is, the very means which they advocate and promote fundamentally represents egregious human rights violations. The "implications" are, rather, that behind-the-scenes violations of human rights, subverting the U.S. Constitution with "intrusive" "technology," are being promoted, not only from a base of secret societies, but by means of proliferation, or expanding recruitment, among the public.
The essence of the ethical subversion and empty reference to "ethical difficulties" is most apparent from the following position.
When you choose to apply the lessons learned in this book, be sure you constantly perform environmental checks. It is in your own best interest to be aware of how much stress you place on those around you, especially superiors. Keep in mind their belief systems, and how they might accept your practices. We are not suggesting limits on your practice and application of skills, just judicious caution in how open you are with others. p. 49 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
When you choose to apply the lessons learned in this book, be sure you constantly perform environmental checks. It is in your own best interest to be aware of how much stress you place on those around you, especially superiors. Keep in mind their belief systems, and how they might accept your practices. We are not suggesting limits on your practice and application of skills, just judicious caution in how open you are with others.
p. 49 The Warrior's Edge,
Clearly an ethically corrupt position. The rhetoric about "integrity" being compatible with "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" obtains a contextual framework with the foregoing revelation. What is the code of "honor," silence ? The philosophy doesn't get any better upon further examination.
"The majority of researchers in this field come to the conclusion that there is an interconnectedness among all things. This premise has major implications for our beliefs and behaviors. Proponents of this concept suggest that information--in the form of consciousness--is a common ingredient throughout the universe. This universal interconnectedness may be the vehicle that allows remote viewing to operate." p. 154 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
"The majority of researchers in this field come to the conclusion that there is an interconnectedness among all things. This premise has major implications for our beliefs and behaviors. Proponents of this concept suggest that information--in the form of consciousness--is a common ingredient throughout the universe. This universal interconnectedness may be the vehicle that allows remote viewing to operate."
There is an "interconnectedness" between computers on a network, but the major "implication" for "behavior" is not the theft of computer files or information. Your neighbor's property might be connected to yours, but does that premise carry with it the implication for a belief or behavior that your property may be trespassed by your neighbor's grazing animals or that your home may be invaded by your neighbor's relatives ?
Light is a common ingredient throughout the universe, but does that give your neighbor a right set up a video camera in your livingroom to keep an eye on you ? When the authors state that "We are not suggesting limits on your practice and application of skills, just judicious caution in how open you are with others," it is no exaggeration for the authors to characterize their disciples as "psychic warriors."
The "technologies" of psychic "warriors" in America represent a flagrant assault on the U.S. Constitutional protections of the Fourth Amendment against personal invasion. The emphasis of the authors appears to be on "success" of "actions" based not upon meeting the behavioral standards of the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights, but of one's "own behavioral standard."
Prisons are full of persons with their "own behavioral standard."
What do we mean by morality ? We mean your subjective and personal sense of right and wrong, developed in a context of cultural ethics. If you meet your own behavioral standard, your actions have a much greater chance of success, because the expectations of your reality map are consonant with your belief-system tree. p. 110 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
What do we mean by morality ? We mean your subjective and personal sense of right and wrong, developed in a context of cultural ethics. If you meet your own behavioral standard, your actions have a much greater chance of success, because the expectations of your reality map are consonant with your belief-system tree.
p. 110 The Warrior's Edge,
It's amazing how close the quoted author's description is to the account in the book of Genesis of meeting one's "own behavioral standard" right down to the "belief-system tree" and Lucifer's "reality map" of deception and corruption. For that matter, The Warrior's Edge promotes "a context of cultural ethics" which is inconsonant with the Bill of Rights of the U.S. Constitution.
The focus is on performance and one's "own behavioral standard." By adopting the "invasive" "technologies" or invasive "weapons" promoted by the authors, the behavioral standard respecting human rights is scuttled into an abyss, deferring to "risk" assessment. The "culture" which is developed by the authors is framed in terms of "warriors" who deploy "weapons" of a psychic "arsenal."
The books' most eloquent statement, which follows, is contravened by the preponderant force of the book's lessons on the whole.
We must caution you to influence with integrity. There is truth in the old saying "What goes around, comes around." We urge you to practice the art of influence with the best interest of all parties in mind. The warrior exerts his influence in keeping with a code of honor and an unassailable integrity above reproach. With these tools comes the responsibility for right action. Our purpose in providing you with advanced human technology techniques is to help enhance all human performance. Properly used, these techniques can have a positive impact on human interaction worldwide. p. 52 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
We must caution you to influence with integrity. There is truth in the old saying "What goes around, comes around." We urge you to practice the art of influence with the best interest of all parties in mind. The warrior exerts his influence in keeping with a code of honor and an unassailable integrity above reproach. With these tools comes the responsibility for right action. Our purpose in providing you with advanced human technology techniques is to help enhance all human performance. Properly used, these techniques can have a positive impact on human interaction worldwide.
p. 52 The Warrior's Edge,
The military is notorious for euphemistic descriptions which can make an all out Reign of Terror read like a tune-up manual. Any "Hidden agendas" imbedded in the language ? Does The Warrior's Edge serve as a part of the occult goal of influencing all humans to embrace the "Plan" of adopting psychic powers by dangling the bait to "enhance all human performance" ?
Using psychic powers as a warrior to exert influence or to place pressure on others to get sucked into the New Age movement and psychic practices could result in what might be euphemistically described as enhancing "human performance." (by drafting all into psychic participation). Do not the application of "these techniques" "impact on human interaction worldwide" in a way "positive" in promoting the "psychic eye" for
(1) - the practitioner, (2) - the "recruitment" of more "psychic warriors", and (3) - by the exertion of "influence" on the population in general ...in keeping with objectives of the "Hierarchy" to expand telepathic "interaction" such that increasing segments of the population establish the "point of contact between humans and Lucifer-consciousness"? [p. 197, Masonry: Beyond The Light, William Schnoebelen]
(1) - the practitioner, (2) - the "recruitment" of more "psychic warriors", and (3) - by the exertion of "influence" on the population in general
(1) - the practitioner,
(2) - the "recruitment" of more "psychic warriors", and
(3) - by the exertion of "influence" on the population in general
...in keeping with objectives of the "Hierarchy" to expand telepathic "interaction" such that increasing segments of the population establish the "point of contact between humans and Lucifer-consciousness"?
[p. 197, Masonry: Beyond The Light, William Schnoebelen]
"Influence with integrity" is quite a statement considering what the standards are not, and considering what standards are trash-canned. But really, what kind of standing ovation can somebody get for using the word "honor" while trampling upon the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights ?
Having in mind clandestine techniques which psychics are taught, it is similar to recommending "integrity" in the use of slipping a drug into someone's drink and hypnotizing the person. "Ruthlessness," "duplicity," "unassailable integrity" ? Fundamentally, the techniques used violate the individual over whom the person exerts his will. Fundamentally, it is disconsonant to appear to take a high moral ground in proposing "integrity" when the very means used represent outrageous violations of the human mind and will, if not also of the human body.
"If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others."
When the authors speak of the "warrior's" "arsenal of weapons" they are speaking of psychic weapons for "psychic warriors" which elucidates their positions that "The warrior must be able to consciously influence others ..." and in that connection even diplomacy is viewed as "a measured attempt to exert national will upon another."
The authors are speaking of psychic influence when speaking of "influence technologies" and the "manipulation of others." From the psychic warrior's viewpoint, the psychic capabilities are described as,
"All these phenomena involve using the mind and/or some "field" of the body to affect other minds and inanimate objects, sometimes at a distance, without the intervention of conventional mechanisms such as electronics or tools."
The authors take the position that "If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic." Would you say that if a person engages in drugging, hypnotizing, and kidnapping others "for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic" ? If so, whose "warriors" ?
The methods are comparable. Considering the ethical and philosophical abyss which people are invited or recruited into, it is not reassuring for such psychic warriors to be making decisions about manipulating and influencing others clandestinely with "psychic" forces for someone else's "eventual benefit" as well as for their own benefit.
The body of information available shows that world-wide initiation into the occult, or Luciferian consciousness is an occult plan. There are those who might argue that they are influencing persons in that direction for their own "benefit," but eventually having discarnate entities re-incarnate themselves in one's own human body is no one's right to seek to impose onto anyone.
The ultimate standard for the "psychic" "warrior on the block" who "applies the seething energies of Lucifer," is Lucifer. That is usually something a person doesn't find out until later, as the testimony has shown. The god of Masonry, Lucifer, who supplies oaths to conceal murder and treason provides the philosophical and operative context for the New Age agenda.
The recruits for "psychic warriors" are not simply asked to subvert the U.S. Constitution by themselves. They are given examples to reinforce their criminal actions.
To repeat,
In the following chapters, we will unroll a reality map that includes telepathy, psychokinesis, and manipulation of time by the human mind. To perform extraordinary acts, some warriors need only faith. Others need to know that what they are doing is behavior accepted by authorities they respect. {this is followed by 4 models of psi} No one knows which, if any, of these models is the correct one. No one knows for certain how consciousness interacts with the phenomenal world. p. 111 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
In the following chapters, we will unroll a reality map that includes telepathy, psychokinesis, and manipulation of time by the human mind. To perform extraordinary acts, some warriors need only faith. Others need to know that what they are doing is behavior accepted by authorities they respect.
What or whom do the authors mean by "authorities" ? Authorities or experts in "psychic warfare" ? The preponderant lessons of The Warrior's Edge can hardly be spoken of as consonant with the military establishment's sworn duty to uphold the Constitution.
Yet, The Warrior's Edge was co-authored by a Colonel (John Alexander) who "evolved from hard-core mercenary to thanatologist" (expert in causing death), who "studied meditation in Buddhist monasteries ..."
"He was chief of the Advanced Human Technology Office, U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command; and director, Advanced Systems Concepts Office, U.S. Army Laboratory Command."
Another co-author, a Major (Richard Groller),
"exemplifies the modern-day techno-shaman. A military intelligence officer in the U.S. Army for over eleven years, ... a mathematician, MBA, and systems engineer. On active duty, he served in a variety of high-tech, R&D, and operational assignments on the staffs of the Directorate of Intelligence, U.S. Forces Command, the 7th Infantry Division, and the U.S. Army Intelligence School."
The third author (Janet Morris) was
"Elected to the New York Academy of Sciences in 1980, she is affiliate with the National Intelligence Study Center. ... She was initiated into the Japanese art of bioenergetics, joh re, the Indonesian brotherhood of Subud, and graduated from the Silva course in advanced mind control. She has been doing remote viewing for fifteen years." [The Warrior's Edge, pps. 14, 15]
"Elected to the New York Academy of Sciences in 1980, she is affiliate with the National Intelligence Study Center. ... She was initiated into the Japanese art of bioenergetics, joh re, the Indonesian brotherhood of Subud, and graduated from the Silva course in advanced mind control. She has been doing remote viewing for fifteen years."
[The Warrior's Edge, pps. 14, 15]
With all due respect to their military service, it should be remembered that wars have been fought to protect and preserve the precepts of the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights.
As this book goes on to show, encompassing the techniques which are advocated in The Warrior's Edge and similar books teaching and advocating psychic powers, the "belief systems" which are "set aside" are fundamentally those of the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights.
The occult conspiracy has been concealing a war machine.
The occult conspiracy of "re-incarnation" has continued to employ a variety of "Trojan Horses" to gain access and entry.
Index
Chapter 7
