# America's Subversion The Enemy Within: Chapter 3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/america_subversion/america_subversion03.htm

Chapter 3
System of Subversion
The "significant zone of influence" for "whatever task the Keepers of the Great Plan required" has been pre-eminently expressed through the organization of Freemasonry. The "operative" stone-masons of mediaeval Europe had a subversive history whereby the lodges which they had formed provided an organizational springboard for organizing professionals into secretive groups for political and religious purposes, while an inner elite could carry on esoteric practices and present their "philosophies" to lower level members in steps or degrees as they saw fit.
In England "speculative" Masonry was founded in which lodges admitted persons who were not of the stone-mason trade, professionals with particular interests and breadth of influence. The first non-operative Masonic lodge can be dated to around the middle of the 17th century and it's members were noted for their astrological, alchemical and occult interests.
The pattern which "operative" mediaeval stone masons provided for the Lodges of "speculative" masonry of professionals and British aristocracy had been embodied in the occult, and in subversion. Former high level Mason and Wiccan witch, William Schnoebelen, in discussing subversive activities of the mediaeval stone masons cites that:
Notre Dame cathedral in Paris was built on the site of an important Temple to the Horned God of Witchcraft, Cernunnos.
These masons ... were holders of the old religion ... paid by the bishops to build cathedrals which they (the masons) would then encrust with Witchcraft symbols! p. 181 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
These masons ... were holders of the old religion ... paid by the bishops to build cathedrals which they (the masons) would then encrust with Witchcraft symbols!
p. 181 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
The meaning of the lodges of "operative" masonry of the middle ages far exceeded the material skills of the stone building trade. Perpetuating esoteric, occult traditions of the "operative" stonemasons formed the basis for the emergence of "speculative" lodges which admitted professionals and aristocrats who were not of the building trade.
{Freemasonry} Speculative members were those men, usually of a higher class than the craftsmen, who were interested in the pursuits of spiritual wisdom, philosophy, and often the occult, with no knowledge of stonemasonry. p. 216 Harper's Encyclopedia of Mystical & Paranormal Experience, Rosemary Ellen Guiley, 1991
{Freemasonry}
Speculative members were those men, usually of a higher class than the craftsmen, who were interested in the pursuits of spiritual wisdom, philosophy, and often the occult, with no knowledge of stonemasonry.
p. 216 Harper's Encyclopedia of Mystical & Paranormal Experience,
Rosemary Ellen Guiley, 1991
Historically, Elias Ashmole is often credited with being the first non-operative Freemason in England. Rosicrucian philosophy, alchemy and astrology formed part of Ashmole's mystical, occult interests.
Most Masonic historians consider Elias Ashmole (1617-1692), astrologer, solicitor, officer of the court of Charles II, and antiquarian, to be the first important nonoperative Freemason in England. For years Ashmole had dabbled in alchemy, Rosicrucian philosophy, and the Kabbalah ... p. 216 Harper's Encyclopedia of Mystical & Paranormal Experience, Rosemary Ellen Guiley, 1991
Most Masonic historians consider Elias Ashmole (1617-1692), astrologer, solicitor, officer of the court of Charles II, and antiquarian, to be the first important nonoperative Freemason in England. For years Ashmole had dabbled in alchemy, Rosicrucian philosophy, and the Kabbalah ...
The depth of Ashmole's association and interest in the occult as Freemasonry's first acclaimed nonoperative mason established a cornerstone for the invoking of spirit powers in Masonic ceremony as this book later goes on to show.
Ashmole possessed five manuscripts of Dr. John Dee, the celebrated sorcerer who "brought through" the Enochian system of magic which now forms the bulwark of satanic ritual and demonic evocation. Ashmole edited one of those manuscripts and became well known as an occultist. He was initiated into the Masons in 1646. p. 179 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
Ashmole possessed five manuscripts of Dr. John Dee, the celebrated sorcerer who "brought through" the Enochian system of magic which now forms the bulwark of satanic ritual and demonic evocation. Ashmole edited one of those manuscripts and became well known as an occultist. He was initiated into the Masons in 1646.
p. 179 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
The deep, occult roots of "speculative" Masonry of the seventeenth century defines the true meaning and work of Masonry. The celebration of the "black mass" by Albert Pike, who re-wrote the degrees of the Scottish Rite in America, and who declared satan to be the force of Masonry's god, gave meaning to his reference that nominal Masons "are intentionally misled by false interpretations" of it's symbols. [Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike, p. 819]. Scottish Rite "symbology and teachings" are in reality laden with occult meaning.
Elias Ashmole was evidently not a solitary operator, but served as a means by which the Central European Rosicrucian network configured it's "host" vehicle on English ground for international expansion, and which the Bavarian Illuminati of Adam Weishaupt would later guide for their Luciferian purposes.
One of the outstanding links between the Rosicrucian Mysteries of the Middle Ages and modern Masonry is Elias Ashmole, the historian of the Order of the Garter and the first Englishman to compile the alchemical writings of the English chemists.
The foregoing may seem to be a useless recital of inanities, but its purpose is to impress upon the reader's mind the philosophical and political situation in Europe at the time of the inception of the Masonic order. A philosophic clan, as it were, as the "Illuminati" and the "Rosicrucians," had undermined in a subtle manner the entire structure of regal and sacerdotal supremacy. The founders of Freemasonry were all men who were more or less identified with the progressive tendencies of their day. Mystics, philosophers, and alchemists were all bound together with a secret tie... p. 446 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals Manly P. Hall, 1984
The foregoing may seem to be a useless recital of inanities, but its purpose is to impress upon the reader's mind the philosophical and political situation in Europe at the time of the inception of the Masonic order. A philosophic clan, as it were, as the "Illuminati" and the "Rosicrucians," had undermined in a subtle manner the entire structure of regal and sacerdotal supremacy.
The founders of Freemasonry were all men who were more or less identified with the progressive tendencies of their day. Mystics, philosophers, and alchemists were all bound together with a secret tie...
p. 446 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals
Manly P. Hall, 1984
Hall goes on to specifically mention groups of adepts and returns to "a group of men in England" in whose association with whom "Several initiated Rosicrucians were brought from the mainland to England":
In the meantime a group of men in England, under the leadership of such mystics as Ashmole and Fludd, had resolved upon repopularizing the ancient Learning and reclassifying philosophy in accordance with Bacon's plan for a world encyclopedia. ...
Elias Ashmole may have been a member of the European order of Rosicrucians, and as such evidently knew that in various parts of Europe there were isolated individuals who were in possession of the secret doctrine handed down in unbroken line from the ancient Greeks and Egyptians ...
The efforts of the English group to contact such individuals were evidently successful. Several initiated Rosicrucians were brought from the mainland to England, where they remained for a considerable time designing the symbolism of Freemasonry and incorporating into the rituals of the order the same divine principles and philosophy that had formed the inner doctrine of all great secret societies from the time of the Eluesinia in Greece. In fact, the Eluesinian Mysteries themselves continued in the custody of the Arabians, as attested by the presence of Masonic symbols and figures upon early Mohammedan monuments. The adepts who were brought over from the Continent to sit in council with the English philosophers were initiates of the Arabian rites, and through them the Mysteries were ultimately returned to Christendom. Upon completion of the bylaws of the new fraternity the initiates retired again to Central Europe, leaving a group of disciples to develop the outer organization which was to function as a sort of screen to conceal the activities of the esoteric order. p. 448 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals Manly P. Hall, 1984
The efforts of the English group to contact such individuals were evidently successful. Several initiated Rosicrucians were brought from the mainland to England, where they remained for a considerable time designing the symbolism of Freemasonry and incorporating into the rituals of the order the same divine principles and philosophy that had formed the inner doctrine of all great secret societies from the time of the Eluesinia in Greece.
In fact, the Eluesinian Mysteries themselves continued in the custody of the Arabians, as attested by the presence of Masonic symbols and figures upon early Mohammedan monuments. The adepts who were brought over from the Continent to sit in council with the English philosophers were initiates of the Arabian rites, and through them the Mysteries were ultimately returned to Christendom.
Upon completion of the bylaws of the new fraternity the initiates retired again to Central Europe, leaving a group of disciples to develop the outer organization which was to function as a sort of screen to conceal the activities of the esoteric order.
p. 448 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals
The "inner doctrine of all great secret societies" was "incorporated into the rituals" of Freemasonry by "initiated Rosicrucians," who were also occupied with "designing the symbolism of Freemasonry."
An "outer organization" was formed "to function as a sort of screen to conceal the activities of the esoteric order." Notice that the "outer organization" was specifically formed for the purposes of the "inner brotherhood." For Masons today to deny connection with the founding roots and presiding powers serves just that purpose, to provide a "sort of screen to conceal the activities of the esoteric order."
Although Masons who are not true initiates might have been "intentionally misled by false interpretations", might be vigorous in their assertions to the contrary, their assertions are just that, contrary.
The whole structure of Freemasonry is founded upon the activities of this secret society of Central European adepts, whom the studious Mason will find to the definite "link" between the modern craft and the ancient wisdom. The outer body of Masonic philosophy was merely the veil of this cabalistic order whose members were the custodians of the true arcanum. Does this inner and secret brotherhood of initiates still exist independent of the Freemasonic order? Evidence points to the fact that it does, for these august adepts are the actual preservers of those secret operative processes of the Greeks whereby the illumination and completion of the individual is effected. They are the veritable guardians of the "Lost Word" -- the Keepers of the Inner Mystery---... p. 449 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals Manly P. Hall, 1984
The whole structure of Freemasonry is founded upon the activities of this secret society of Central European adepts, whom the studious Mason will find to the definite "link" between the modern craft and the ancient wisdom. The outer body of Masonic philosophy was merely the veil of this cabalistic order whose members were the custodians of the true arcanum. Does this inner and secret brotherhood of initiates still exist independent of the Freemasonic order?
Evidence points to the fact that it does, for these august adepts are the actual preservers of those secret operative processes of the Greeks whereby the illumination and completion of the individual is effected. They are the veritable guardians of the "Lost Word" -- the Keepers of the Inner Mystery---...
p. 449 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals
The transition from the "operative" mason guilds to the "speculative" Mason Lodges in England, itself, conveys a diversionary description. Speculative Masonry might be an expression which well describes "The outer body of Masonic philosophy" because it "was merely the veil" and in which members are "intentionally misled by false interpretations", but the "secret doctrine" was "handed down in unbroken line from the ancient Greeks and Egyptians..."
Masonry may have become "speculative" to those members of the "outer organization" who did not understand the ritual meaning of the symbols, but Masonry, "the inheritor of the Mysteries", continued to be operative. How so?
Not as a body of operative stonemasons, but that it is the "inner" machine which perpetuated the "operative processes of ... {occult} illumination ..." An "inner and secret" brotherhood could engage in ritual work independently of the "outer body." Although it could operate independently in conjunction with it's secret activities, it formed an "inner ... brotherhood", the 'founding' "secret society of ... adepts."
That personal speculation does not form the substance of Freemasonry is very clear. Freemasonry's rites were designed by a group of occult adepts for very definite purposes. Those rites remain "speculative" until such a time when a Mason "makes them operative by living the life of the mystic Mason." The object of the "inner brotherhood" is to "learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites."
A Mason is not appointed; he is evolved and he must realize that the position he holds in the exoteric lodge means nothing compared to his position in the spiritual lodge of life ... and that his Masonic rites must eternally be speculative until he makes them operative by living the life of the mystic Mason.
The Masonic order is not a mere social organization, but is composed of all those who have banded themselves together to learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites. p. 19 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976.
The Masonic order is not a mere social organization, but is composed of all those who have banded themselves together to learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites.
p. 19 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976.
Traditionally, however, the conventional use of the term "operative masonry" is a reference to the European stone mason guilds, and is so used in references to follow unless otherwise noted.
Masonry's sinister magical work has been concealed from the public and from the many "nominal" Masons even into the twentieth century where it has been declared in 1957 that the real work, the ritual work, the magical work of Masonry "is as yet fortunately but little realized."
Masonry in its true and highest sense is magical work. This is as yet fortunately but little realized. Behind the magical work of the rituals must be the influence of the established rhythm ... p. 97 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
Masonry in its true and highest sense is magical work. This is as yet fortunately but little realized. Behind the magical work of the rituals must be the influence of the established rhythm ...
p. 97 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
The developing "rituals" and the association of astrologers and alchemists which had been crystallizing around the occult organizational seed drew a growing interest and the need was perceived for forming new "speculative" lodges.
The first recorded initiation of a 'speculative' Freemason in an English lodge was in 1646 when Elias Ashmole, the antiquary, astrologer and alchemist, joined a lodge in Warrington which had not a single working mason in it. By the late seventeenth century, so many gentlemen - including a lot more antiquaries, astrologers and alchemists - were intrigued by the brotherhood and its developing rituals that new lodges were being created to satisfy the craze to join. p. 32 Inside The Brotherhood: Further Secrets of the Freemasons, Martin Short, 1989, (The Explosive Sequel to Stephen Knight's The Brotherhood)
The first recorded initiation of a 'speculative' Freemason in an English lodge was in 1646 when Elias Ashmole, the antiquary, astrologer and alchemist, joined a lodge in Warrington which had not a single working mason in it.
By the late seventeenth century, so many gentlemen - including a lot more antiquaries, astrologers and alchemists - were intrigued by the brotherhood and its developing rituals that new lodges were being created to satisfy the craze to join.
p. 32 Inside The Brotherhood: Further Secrets of the Freemasons, Martin Short, 1989,
(The Explosive Sequel to Stephen Knight's The Brotherhood)
The subversive operative lodges which concealed witchcraft and pagan principles provided cells for ritual work and eventually drew membership which was not of the stone mason trade. The expression "operative lodges" is used to designate stonemason lodges.
Indeed, surviving minute books from Scottish operative lodges imply that some form of ritual work was carried on, in addition to the business of management and control of the trade. They also show the increasing admission of Accepted Masons, to the extent that by the early eighteenth century the operative content of some of the lodges had become completely eroded and they were, to all intents and purposes, speculative lodges. The process seems to have been similar in England. For example, the London Masons' Company admitted members who were neither operative craftsmen nor their employers, and there are also well-attested instances of non-operatives being initiated into other Masonic lodges. p. 22 Freemasonry: A Celebration of the Craft, General Editors, John Hamill, Robert Gilbert, 1992
Indeed, surviving minute books from Scottish operative lodges imply that some form of ritual work was carried on, in addition to the business of management and control of the trade. They also show the increasing admission of Accepted Masons, to the extent that by the early eighteenth century the operative content of some of the lodges had become completely eroded and they were, to all intents and purposes, speculative lodges.
The process seems to have been similar in England. For example, the London Masons' Company admitted members who were neither operative craftsmen nor their employers, and there are also well-attested instances of non-operatives being initiated into other Masonic lodges.
p. 22 Freemasonry: A Celebration of the Craft,
General Editors, John Hamill, Robert Gilbert, 1992
"Ritual work" conveys a meaning beyond the appearances of ceremony. The ritual work of witchcraft is not mere symbolism. It involves the invocation of demons, sinister spirits. In modern times the dark "forces" behind witchcraft are sometimes portrayed as the forces of nature. Comparatively, at it's core, the Masonic legacy is that of occult practices and philosophy while often professing less inimical inspiration.
The foregoing reference mentions that "the process" of initiating non-stone-masons into the lodges "seems to have been similar in England." The process of transforming the stone-mason lodges into lodges whose members were drawn from other levels of society took place in both Scotland and England. Indeed, Elias Ashmole, occultist, provided prime material for such a transformation, as well as prime material for lodge ritual work.
The most famous of these {non-operatives} is the case of the antiquarian Elias Ashmole. According to his diary, Ashmole was initiated into a lodge at Warrington, Lancashire, on 16 October 1646, during the English Civil War.
Ashmole records only one other Masonic event at which he was present: the admission of six gentlemen, none of whom were operative masons, to the 'Fellowship of Free Masons' at London in 1682. Six year later Randle Holme III, an heraldic painter, stated in print that he was a 'Member of that Society, called Free-Masons', while at the same period the antiquarian Robert Plot gave a brief comment on the Masonic admission ceremony emphasizing its 'secret signes'.
The first concerns the distinction between English and Scottish Freemasonry. A recent study has argued that Freemasonry before 1717 developed entirely in Scotland, citing not only the evidence quoted above, but also the fact that ritual elements in the working of Scottish Masonic lodges (for example, the use of the Mason Word from 1638 onwards) can be shown to have crept into English lodge working. p. 22 Freemasonry: A Celebration of the Craft, General Editors, John Hamill, Robert Gilbert, 1992,
The first concerns the distinction between English and Scottish Freemasonry. A recent study has argued that Freemasonry before 1717 developed entirely in Scotland, citing not only the evidence quoted above, but also the fact that ritual elements in the working of Scottish Masonic lodges (for example, the use of the Mason Word from 1638 onwards) can be shown to have crept into English lodge working.
General Editors, John Hamill, Robert Gilbert, 1992,
Modern Masonry which has "concealed" the "mystic meaning" "within these rituals" boasts of a first "speculative" Mason, Elias Ashmole, who was an occultist. "True Freemasonry" exceeds the "physical degrees and outward honors" and is embodied "in the crystallized ritual". It is an "esoteric group" within the "exoteric body" which forms "a central fire" of Freemasonry. The fundamental activity of the inner, core, esoteric group which forms the substance of real Masonry is "to learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites."
The initiated brother realizes ...
... that few Masons of today know or appreciate the mystic meaning concealed within these rituals. ... but those who have not recognized the truth in the crystallized ritual, those who have not liberated the spiritual germ from the shell of empty words, are not Masons, regardless of their physical degrees and outward honors.
... that few Masons of today know or appreciate the mystic meaning concealed within these rituals.
... but those who have not recognized the truth in the crystallized ritual, those who have not liberated the spiritual germ from the shell of empty words, are not Masons, regardless of their physical degrees and outward honors.
True Freemasonry is esoteric... a link, a doorway, through which the student may pass into the unknown.
The true student seeks to lift himself from the exoteric body upward spiritually until he joins the esoteric group which, without a lodge on the physical plane of Nature, is far greater than all the lodges on the physical plane of Nature, is far greater than all the lodges of which it is a central fire. The spiritual instructors of humanity are forced to labor in the concrete world with things comprehensible to the concrete mind, and there man begins to comprehend the meaning of the allegories and symbols which surround his exoteric work as soon as he prepares himself to receive them.
... The Masonic order is not a mere social organization, but is composed of all those who have banded themselves together to learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites. p. 19 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976.
... The Masonic order is not a mere social organization, but is composed of all those who have banded themselves together to learn and apply the principles of mysticism and the occult rites.
In 1717, an association of Lodges formed in England, officially giving birth to the organization of Freemasonry, on English soil. It would form the vehicle of subversive operations and intrigue, revolution, espionage and war whose focus would not be the transformation of stone cathedrals, a preoccupation by subversive predecessors, but the transformation of political structures around the world in the crucible of chaos and war. A "new magical order" emerged in the heart of the British Empire.
... transformed with the ceremonies, symbols, finery and regalia of a new magical order, Freemasonry became a dynamic movement which in less than 150 years would spread throughout the world. p. 41 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
... transformed with the ceremonies, symbols, finery and regalia of a new magical order, Freemasonry became a dynamic movement which in less than 150 years would spread throughout the world.
p. 41 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
The inner, esoteric group would engage in a service invisible to the organization of "outer" members of Freemasonry. An occult, secret doctrine formed the invisible foundation. A cloak of respectability enshrouds an "invisible society" "dedicated to the service" a mysterious occult secret of secrets, a sinister "great work," a "Plan" for the world.
The Masonic scholar, Manly P. Hall, 33ยบ, testified that the outer body of Freemasonry conceals and serves the purposes of the "inner brotherhood" and that there is an invisible order as well as a visible one, interdependent.
Freemasonry is a fraternity within a fraternity, an outer organization concealing an inner brotherhood of the elect. Before it is possible to intelligently discuss the origin of the craft it is necessary to establish the existence of these two separate yet interdependent orders, the one visible and the other invisible. The visible society is a splendid camaraderie of "free and accepted" men enjoined to devote themselves to ethical, educational, fraternal, patriotic, and humanitarian concerns. The invisible society is a secret and most august fraternity whose members are dedicated to the service of a mysterious arcanum arcanorum. Those brethren who have essayed to write the history of their craft have not included in their disquisitions the story of that truly secret inner society which is to the body Freemasonic what the heart is to the body human. In each generation only a few are accepted into the inner sanctuary of the work, but these are veritable princes of truth, and their sainted names shall be remembered in future ages together with the seers and prophets of the elder world. Though the great initiate-philosophers of Freemasonry can be counted upon one's fingers, yet their power is not to be measured by the achievements of ordinary men. They are dwellers upon the threshold of the innermost, masters of that secret doctrine which forms the invisible foundation of every great theological and rational institution.
Freemasonry is a fraternity within a fraternity, an outer organization concealing an inner brotherhood of the elect. Before it is possible to intelligently discuss the origin of the craft it is necessary to establish the existence of these two separate yet interdependent orders, the one visible and the other invisible. The visible society is a splendid camaraderie of "free and accepted" men enjoined to devote themselves to ethical, educational, fraternal, patriotic, and humanitarian concerns.
The invisible society is a secret and most august fraternity whose members are dedicated to the service of a mysterious arcanum arcanorum. Those brethren who have essayed to write the history of their craft have not included in their disquisitions the story of that truly secret inner society which is to the body Freemasonic what the heart is to the body human. In each generation only a few are accepted into the inner sanctuary of the work, but these are veritable princes of truth, and their sainted names shall be remembered in future ages together with the seers and prophets of the elder world.
Though the great initiate-philosophers of Freemasonry can be counted upon one's fingers, yet their power is not to be measured by the achievements of ordinary men. They are dwellers upon the threshold of the innermost, masters of that secret doctrine which forms the invisible foundation of every great theological and rational institution.
The outer history of the Masonic order is one of noble endeavor, altruism, and splendid enterprise; the inner history one of silent conquest, persecution, and heroic martyrdom. The body of Masonry rose from the guilds of workmen who wandered the face of medieval Europe, but the spirit of Masonry walked with God before the universe was spread out or the scroll of the heavens unrolled. p. 434 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals Manly P. Hall, 1984
The outer history of the Masonic order is one of noble endeavor, altruism, and splendid enterprise; the inner history one of silent conquest, persecution, and heroic martyrdom. The body of Masonry rose from the guilds of workmen who wandered the face of medieval Europe, but the spirit of Masonry walked with God before the universe was spread out or the scroll of the heavens unrolled.
p. 434 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals
The spirit of Masonry is unequivocally identified, not with the God of the Bible, but with that of the occult. The "silent conquest" of Freemasonry will be revealed to be the greatest threat to humanity, politically and particularly spiritually.
"Silent Conquest"
The occult connection provides the root legacy which Masonry has perpetuated. Yet other precedents had been established, as documented in one of the original lodges in Scotland. It is that of the perversion of justice, and of setting up an invisible government in contravention of duly established governance. The precedence includes the intent to devastate economically and destroy a man and his family who seek recourse from Masonic actions from civil authorities, and the evident intent to commit perjury by Lodge members in so doing.
The young Anderson had learned Masonry from his father, a member of the Aberdeen Lodge whose 1670 roll has miraculously survived. This lists James Anderson (the Elder) as a 'Glazier and Mason and Clerk to our Honourable Lodge'. As clerk, Anderson wrote out the lodge's Constitution, which has also survived. This lays down the fearful penalty to be inflicted on any brother who refuses to pay a fine imposed by the lodge. If he dares go to a civil judge for justice, the Lodge Master and the other brethren will go to that judge he complains to and will make him a perjured man, and never any more hereafter to be received in our Lodge, nor have any part nor portion in our charity nor mortified money, nor none of his offspring although they may be needful, nor get any more employment with any of our number, nor from any other far nor near, in so far as we can hinder.
The young Anderson had learned Masonry from his father, a member of the Aberdeen Lodge whose 1670 roll has miraculously survived. This lists James Anderson (the Elder) as a 'Glazier and Mason and Clerk to our Honourable Lodge'. As clerk, Anderson wrote out the lodge's Constitution, which has also survived. This lays down the fearful penalty to be inflicted on any brother who refuses to pay a fine imposed by the lodge.
If he dares go to a civil judge for justice, the Lodge Master and the other brethren will go to that judge he complains to and will make him a perjured man, and never any more hereafter to be received in our Lodge, nor have any part nor portion in our charity nor mortified money, nor none of his offspring although they may be needful, nor get any more employment with any of our number, nor from any other far nor near, in so far as we can hinder.
The brethren could only have made their colleague 'a perjured man' by all standing up in court to swear that he was a liar. The other punishments awaiting their victim would have been enough to put him out of work for life, especially in a small closed community like seventeeth-century Aberdeen. Surrounded by this wall of hostility, he and his family would have to leave the town for ever - or starve. p. 38 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
The brethren could only have made their colleague 'a perjured man' by all standing up in court to swear that he was a liar. The other punishments awaiting their victim would have been enough to put him out of work for life, especially in a small closed community like seventeeth-century Aberdeen. Surrounded by this wall of hostility, he and his family would have to leave the town for ever - or starve.
p. 38 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
James Anderson's son, Dr. James Anderson, in 1721 went about rewriting Freemasonry's Constitutions for the Grand Lodge of England. However, the precedence for obstruction and perversion of justice would later be documented in Freemasonry's expansion to American soil, both in a structure of oaths and in practice. American soil would also witness the murder of Capt. Morgan who revealed Masonic secrets to the public and who was murdered pursuant to Masonic oaths of retribution.
Such oaths include in the Royal Arch degree the concealment of crimes by fellow Masons, murder and treason not excepted. Dr. James Anderson's improvements to written constitutions of the time in England have evidently not so much altered the underlying substance of Freemasonry as it has in serving the interests of providing a strategic or tactical move at the time.
Dr. James Anderson was born in Aberdeen in about 1680. After becoming a minister in the Church of Scotland, he made his way to London. In 1721 he started rewriting Freemasonry's Constitutions 'in a new and better method'. He claimed he was asked to do this by the new Grand Lodge of England (founded in 1717 when four lodges came together under one authority), but he may have suggested it himself. Leading Masonic historians have admitted that he 'was commercially as well as masonically motivated'. He retained personal copyright in the Constitutions and later talked Grand Lodge into discouraging Masons from buying what he claimed was a 'pyrated' edition. p. 36 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
Dr. James Anderson was born in Aberdeen in about 1680. After becoming a minister in the Church of Scotland, he made his way to London. In 1721 he started rewriting Freemasonry's Constitutions 'in a new and better method'.
He claimed he was asked to do this by the new Grand Lodge of England (founded in 1717 when four lodges came together under one authority), but he may have suggested it himself. Leading Masonic historians have admitted that he 'was commercially as well as masonically motivated'. He retained personal copyright in the Constitutions and later talked Grand Lodge into discouraging Masons from buying what he claimed was a 'pyrated' edition.
p. 36 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
That tactical moves are reluctantly made in British Masonry was evident in 1986, following a modern controversy as to a long tradition of chilling Masonic "penalties" expressed in requisite oaths.
In April 1986 the Duke of Kent told Grand Lodge that any future change over the penalties would 'be of our making, and not because people outside Freemasonry have suggested it'. Yet only four weeks later, when the change was accepted, the Board of General Purposes admitted the penalties had to go partly because they gave 'ready material for attack by our enemies and detractors'. p. 43 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
In April 1986 the Duke of Kent told Grand Lodge that any future change over the penalties would 'be of our making, and not because people outside Freemasonry have suggested it'. Yet only four weeks later, when the change was accepted, the Board of General Purposes admitted the penalties had to go partly because they gave 'ready material for attack by our enemies and detractors'.
p. 43 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
The concept of a government within, and essentially in contravention of, a nation's duly established government takes frightening proportions when one considers the scope of influence of British Masonry.
British Masonry functions much like old school ties, with the Brotherhood strong in the fields of law, jurisprudence, police, government, and the armed forces. p. 219 Harper's Encyclopedia of Mystical & Paranormal Experience, Rosemary, Ellen, Guiley, 1991
British Masonry functions much like old school ties, with the Brotherhood strong in the fields of law, jurisprudence, police, government, and the armed forces.
p. 219 Harper's Encyclopedia of Mystical & Paranormal Experience, Rosemary, Ellen, Guiley, 1991
Martin Short details activities and intrigue of British Masonry in his book, Inside the Brotherhood: Further Secrets of the Freemasons, The Explosive Sequel to Stephen Knight's The Brotherhood. The issue is that of a criminal empire with tentacles reaching into law enforcement.
{Chapter :} A CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE Such interventions look less benign to non-Masons inside the force who see them as inextricably intertwined with Masonic manipulation of the service as a whole. Among the hundreds of letters which Stephen Knight received from readers of The Brotherhood, several came from policemen who felt they had spent most of their careers battling against a masonic mafia. p. 192 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
{Chapter :} A CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE
Such interventions look less benign to non-Masons inside the force who see them as inextricably intertwined with Masonic manipulation of the service as a whole. Among the hundreds of letters which Stephen Knight received from readers of The Brotherhood, several came from policemen who felt they had spent most of their careers battling against a masonic mafia.
p. 192 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
The mafia description has also obtained application in connection with the notorious Italian P-2 Masonic Lodge. Stephen Knight has devoted several chapters to P-2 intrigue in his book The Brotherhood and examines ramifications in espionage and national security extending far beyond Italy's borders, whereby Martin Short further explores the intrigues in his book, Inside The Brotherhood. Intrigue is inseparably linked with Freemasonry.
Martin Short also explores the death of Stephen Knight whose 1976 book about Jack the Ripper implicating a Masonic cover-up, which together with Knight's 1984 expose of British Freemasonry did not serve the public image of the secret British Order.
Short details the account of the serious arsenic poisoning case of American former Mormon elder Ed Decker who travelled Scotland in 1986 exposing Freemasonry and Masonically linked Mormonism (Inside the Brotherhood, pps. 21-23). Ed Decker's case demonstrates that there are sinister forces which do not exclude poisoning as a criminal tactic.
Decker's case also gives impetus to the warning given to Martin Short, by a doctor, a Mason.
Of all the 'advice' I have received, the most disturbing came from a doctor who is himself a Mason. 'My friend, don't ever have an operation in this country. Go abroad. Heaven help you if you fall into their hands over here.' p. 18 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
Of all the 'advice' I have received, the most disturbing came from a doctor who is himself a Mason. 'My friend, don't ever have an operation in this country. Go abroad. Heaven help you if you fall into their hands over here.'
p. 18 Inside the Brotherhood, Martin Short, 1989
Masonry's "blood" oaths demanding horrible penalties for those who violate Masonry's secrecy justifiably raise suspicion. The case of Captain Morgan, who in America revealed secrets of Masonry, demonstrated that the oaths of Masonry which swear retribution clearly depict expressions of Masonry's intent.
Revealing these secret rites is what Captain Morgan died for. But what of his kidnapers? The precise details of the murder were not known until 1848 when one of the three Masons involved in the crime confessed to his doctor from his deathbed in hopes of religious absolution. The story broke in early 1849 in the press .... p.107 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Rev. Charles G. Finney, The Character, claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry, 1859, p. 17}
Revealing these secret rites is what Captain Morgan died for. But what of his kidnapers? The precise details of the murder were not known until 1848 when one of the three Masons involved in the crime confessed to his doctor from his deathbed in hopes of religious absolution. The story broke in early 1849 in the press ....
p.107 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: Rev. Charles G. Finney, The Character, claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry, 1859, p. 17}
The "secret rites" which Captain Morgan revealed pertained to the "outer machinery" of Masonry. Never-the-less, operative foundations for a criminal empire in America were revealed. Captain Morgan's murder precipitated a far greater expose than those of secret rites. Morgan's murder uncovered the operation of a criminal masonic machine in America.
The conspirators kidnapped Captain Morgan and his publisher in Batavia, New York, but the publisher was later rescued after outraged citizens of Batavia pursued the kidnapers. Morgan was not so lucky, however, and Masons went to extraordinary lengths to insure that as much confusion as possible would surround the matter.
The Courts of justice found themselves entirely unable to make any headway against the wide-spread conspiracy that was formed among Masons....It was found that they could do nothing with the courts, with the sheriffs, with the witnesses, or with the jurors. Masons themselves...published two spurious editions of Morgan's book, and circulated them as the true edition which Morgan had published. These editions were designed to deceive Masons who had never seen Morgan's edition, and thus to enable them to say that it was not a true revelation of Masonry. {footnote} p.107 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Rev. Charles G. Finney, The Character, claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry, 1859, p. 17}
The Courts of justice found themselves entirely unable to make any headway against the wide-spread conspiracy that was formed among Masons....It was found that they could do nothing with the courts, with the sheriffs, with the witnesses, or with the jurors.
Masons themselves...published two spurious editions of Morgan's book, and circulated them as the true edition which Morgan had published. These editions were designed to deceive Masons who had never seen Morgan's edition, and thus to enable them to say that it was not a true revelation of Masonry. {footnote}
How could the investigation of a horrible murder, in which Captain Morgan pleaded for his life in behalf of his wife and young children for the act of having alerted the American people to the dangers of a secretive organization, be obstructed by sheriffs, witnesses, courts and jurors ?
Masonry's Aberdeen spirit had entrenched itself on American soil. Oaths of secrecy, oaths swearing penalties of death for breaches of secrecy, oaths swearing to obstruct and pervert justice, oaths swearing to cover-up crimes of fellow Masons, crimes not excepting murder and treason, had defined an esoteric, inner value system, veiled by exoteric principles of charity and brotherhood.
The "blue code of silence" which has even in modern times eaten away at America's law enforcement community, countenancing drug dealing and even murder by sworn officers of the law, in principle has reflected Masonic code subverting justice, not excepting murder, not excepting even treason.
The subversion of law-enforcement officers in the investigation of the murder of an individual who exposed the foundations of a criminal organization in America cannot be rationalized as unpremeditated corruption inasmuch as the Masonic organization brings men to swear under penalties of death to conceal the crimes of fellow members, Masons, not excepting murder and treason..
Falsification of evidence, in the form of spurious editions of Capt. Morgan's book, reckoned among the tactics employed by Masons, designed to undue Capt. Morgan's expose in the public realm, serving to mislead lower ranking Masons as to the true nature of the organization, and serving to divert attention from the Masonic motive to murder Capt Morgan. A deathbed confession in 1848, printed by the press in early 1849 (New World Order, William Still, p. 107) by one of three murderers disclosed years later provided details of the heinous murder.
Swearing to Conceal and Commit Crimes
Among the revelations of Capt. Morgan were Masonic secrets of the third degree, concealed from Masons of lower degrees and concealed from the public. The Master Mason oath was pervasively demonstrated in force in America, as Capt. Morgan's murder bore witness.
THE THIRD, OR MASTER MASON'S DEGREE
Furthermore do I promise and swear that a Master Mason's secrets, given to me in charge as such, and I knowing them to be such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own, when communicated to me, murder and treason excepted; and they left to my own election. p. 75 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ... Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY
Furthermore do I promise and swear that a Master Mason's secrets, given to me in charge as such, and I knowing them to be such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own, when communicated to me, murder and treason excepted; and they left to my own election.
p. 75 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY
Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ...
Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S
EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY
Captain Morgan had uncovered for the American public and for lower degree Masons the foundation for a criminal empire, that of swearing to the concealment of crimes of fellow Master Masons ! The "obligation" specifically mentions murder and treason as excepted, but then the oath goes on to assert that the concealment of murder and treason is "left to my own election." This brave disclosure made Captain William Morgan a loyal American in safeguarding this nation from enemies foreign and domestic. It revealed Masonry as a menace to the United States Constitution and to it's people.
The Masonic Menace, exported from Great Britain, had been dealt a blow. Many Masons in America left the Order and an Anti-Masonic Party was formed. Investigations into the "Craft" produced staggering results, not only in what was confirmed as to Captain Morgan's disclosures, but in further revelations, and in a demonstrated and manifest obstruction of investigations by the Masonic Order. The inimical power of Masonry was extensive, at times even preponderant.
One Mason who left Masonry and joined the Anti-Masonic Party in 1828 was Millard Fillmore who went on to become this nation's thirteenth President. His warning was later substantiated to be accurate by three state legislatures.
One of those who left the Order was Millard Fillmore, a young attorney from Buffalo, New York who would later become the thirteenth president of the United States. Fillmore joined the Anti-Masonic Party in 1828. According to one author, ex-Mason Fillmore once warned: "The Masonic fraternity tramples upon our rights, defeats the administration of justice, and bids defiance to every government which it cannot control." {footnote} p.108 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Whalen, Christianity and American Freemasonry, p. 31}
One of those who left the Order was Millard Fillmore, a young attorney from Buffalo, New York who would later become the thirteenth president of the United States. Fillmore joined the Anti-Masonic Party in 1828. According to one author, ex-Mason Fillmore once warned:
"The Masonic fraternity tramples upon our rights, defeats the administration of justice, and bids defiance to every government which it cannot control."
{footnote}
p.108 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: Whalen, Christianity and American Freemasonry, p. 31}
"... defeats the administration of justice..." Examine more closely the disclosures of Capt. Morgan.
The first three degrees of Masonry are respectively called the Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft, and the Master Mason degrees. Captain Morgan exposed the oaths of these three degrees along with secret signs or signals through which Masonry has designed to 'defeat the administration of justice.'
Former Knight Templar of the York Rite (equivalent to the 32nd degree of the Scottish Rite), William Schnoebelen, cites several Masonic oaths in his book Masonry: Beyond the Light, as well as examines ramifications thereof. Of the third degree, Schnoebelen quotes Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor :
... in the third degree ritual, the candidate swears that: I will keep a worthy brother Master Mason's secrets inviolable, when communicated to or received by me as such, murder and treason excepted. {footnote : Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 95} p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
... in the third degree ritual, the candidate swears that: I will keep a worthy brother Master Mason's secrets inviolable, when communicated to or received by me as such, murder and treason excepted.
{footnote : Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 95}
p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
It appears from the quoted oath that secrets of murder and treason are fundamentally excepted and no longer left "to ... {one's} own election" to conceal. Not so fast. Later in the Past Master Degree of the York Rite one finds the same formulation previously constituted in the Master Mason Oath.
FROM THE OATH OF THE PAST MASTER DEGREE OF THE YORK RITE
I promise and swear, that the secrets of a brother of this degree, delivered to me in charge as such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as they were in his own before communicated to me, murder and treason excepted, and those left to my own election... {footnote: Malcom C. Duncan, Masonic Ritual and Monitor (New York: David McKay, n.d.), pp. 189} p. 181 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg & John Weldon, 1989, 1990,
I promise and swear, that the secrets of a brother of this degree, delivered to me in charge as such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as they were in his own before communicated to me, murder and treason excepted, and those left to my own election...
{footnote: Malcom C. Duncan, Masonic Ritual and Monitor (New York: David McKay, n.d.), pp. 189}
p. 181 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective,
John Ankerberg & John Weldon, 1989, 1990,
Later, again, in the Royal Arch degree, of the York Rite, the Mason swears to conceal the secrets of a Companion Royal Arch Mason "without exceptions."
In the Royal Arch degree of the York Rite, ... The candidate swears that: I will keep all the secrets of a Companion Royal Arch Mason (when communicated to me as such, or I knowing them to be such), without exceptions. {footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p.230} p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, 1991
In the Royal Arch degree of the York Rite, ... The candidate swears that:
I will keep all the secrets of a Companion Royal Arch Mason (when communicated to me as such, or I knowing them to be such), without exceptions.
{footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p.230}
p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, 1991
To "obligate" oneself to conceal "secrets" "murder and treason excepted" but leaving the concealment of such crimes to one's "own election" in the Past Master Degree opens said options and consents to elect such concealment, in the form of an oath. The Past Master Degree also prepares the member to take a further step later where in the Royal Arch Degree no exceptions are made to the obligation. Murder and treason concealment becomes no longer an "election" to perform, but an "obligation" to perform.
Former 33rd degree Mason (the highest degree in American Masonry by invitation only, for either the York or the Scottish Rite) and Past Master of all Scottish Rite bodies, Jim Shaw, revealed in his expose, The Deadly Deception, the Master Mason oath which was administered to him, before he went on to higher degrees in the Scottish Rite. Notice the formulation of the words in connection with concealing fellow Master Mason secrets.
TAKING THE MASTER MASON OATH
" I .... do hereby and hereon solemnly promise and swear; that I will always hail, every conceal and never reveal, any of the secret arts, parts or points of the Master Mason's degree ...
I furthermore promise and swear that I will conform and abide by all the laws, rules and regulations of the Master Mason's degree, and of the Lodge of which I shall hereafter become a member, and that I will ever maintain and support the constitution, laws and edicts of the Grand Lodge under whom the same shall work, so far as they shall come to my knowledge. Furthermore, that I will keep the secrets of a worthy Master Mason as inviolable as my own, when communicated to and received by me as such. Furthermore, I will aid and assist all worthy distressed brother Master Masons ... p. 45 The Deadly Deception, Jim Shaw & Tom McKenney, 1988
I furthermore promise and swear that I will conform and abide by all the laws, rules and regulations of the Master Mason's degree, and of the Lodge of which I shall hereafter become a member, and that I will ever maintain and support the constitution, laws and edicts of the Grand Lodge under whom the same shall work, so far as they shall come to my knowledge.
Furthermore, that I will keep the secrets of a worthy Master Mason as inviolable as my own, when communicated to and received by me as such. Furthermore, I will aid and assist all worthy distressed brother Master Masons ...
p. 45 The Deadly Deception, Jim Shaw & Tom McKenney, 1988
The secrets of a fellow Master Mason are held to be "inviolable," as so without exceptions.
There are other, even more material aspects which can have a direct bearing on the perversion and obstruction of justice by Masons. The Royal Arch Degree requires not only the concealment of crimes, including murder and treason, but requires actions of extricating another Royal Arch Mason "in any difficulty" "whether he be right or wrong." The impact of such covertly taken oaths upon government offices occupied by judges, district attorneys, sheriffs, police or other agents of the federal, state or local government is not simply theoretical.
The oaths have been certified by three state legislatures to exert a terribly inimical force, as this chapter goes on to show. Contemplate the scenario where your own hired attorney is "obligated" toward a person against whom you might have a legal case, as you read the following Masonic oath, keeping in mind that the oath does not constitute a springboard for situation ethics, but swears the Mason to "obligations" and "a firm and steadfast resolution to keep and perform the same."
FROM THE ROYAL ARCH DEGREE OF THE YORK RITE
... I furthermore promise and swear, that I will assist a Companion Royal Arch Mason when I see him engaged in any difficulty, and will espouse his cause so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong .... To all [of this] which I do most solemnly and sincerely promises and swear, with a firm and steadfast resolution to keep and perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less penalty, than to have my skull smote off, and my brains exposed to the scorching rays of the Meridian sun, should I knowingly or willfully violate or transgress any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Royal Arch Mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same. {footnote: Malcom C. Duncan, Masonic Ritual and Monitor (New York: David McKay, n.d.), pp. 265} p. 182 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg, John Weldon, 1989, 1990
... I furthermore promise and swear, that I will assist a Companion Royal Arch Mason when I see him engaged in any difficulty, and will espouse his cause so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong ....
To all [of this] which I do most solemnly and sincerely promises and swear, with a firm and steadfast resolution to keep and perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less penalty, than to have my skull smote off, and my brains exposed to the scorching rays of the Meridian sun, should I knowingly or willfully violate or transgress any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Royal Arch Mason.
So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same.
{footnote: Malcom C. Duncan, Masonic Ritual and Monitor (New York: David McKay, n.d.), pp. 265}
p. 182 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge:
A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg, John Weldon, 1989, 1990
Concealing crimes including murder and treason, swearing to an "obligation" of extricating another Mason of equal rank from "any difficulty" "whether he be right or wrong" "if in my power" comprises a body of "obligations" of intent sworn to, which includes apprising a fellow Mason of "all approaching danger".
Furthermore do I promise and swear that I will not speak evil of a brother Master Mason, neither behind his back nor before his face, but will apprise him of all approaching danger, if in my power. p. 74 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ... Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY :(FREEMASONRY EXPOSED)
Furthermore do I promise and swear that I will not speak evil of a brother Master Mason, neither behind his back nor before his face, but will apprise him of all approaching danger, if in my power.
p. 74 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY
EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY :(FREEMASONRY EXPOSED)
This component of "obligations" of the Master Mason's degree in Morgan's day is hence reflected in the Royal Arch degree.
... The candidate also swears that: I will not speak evil of a Companion Royal Arch Mason, behind his back nor before his face, but will appraise him of all approaching danger, if in my power. {footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 229} p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
... The candidate also swears that:
I will not speak evil of a Companion Royal Arch Mason, behind his back nor before his face, but will appraise him of all approaching danger, if in my power.
{footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 229}
The expression "if in my power" in both instances of the Master Mason degree in the time of Captain Morgan and that of the Royal Arch degree, hence, carries formidable weight in those cases where the Mason is in a position of power, be that as a law enforcement official, private or government investigator, financial institution regulator, or otherwise.
Binding men under the threat of penalty of death and with the feeling of obligation by means of sworn oath, to conceal crimes of murder and treason and to extricate the guilty within one's means of power, represents the antithesis of ideals and laws expressed and established in the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The extent to which men had been corrupted in their consciences and actions by means of Masonry's diabolical oaths was evident in the investigation of Captain Morgan's murder: wherein:
"The Courts of justice found themselves entirely unable to make any headway against the wide-spread conspiracy that was formed among Masons.... It was found that they could do nothing with the courts, with the sheriffs, with the witnesses, or with the jurors." p.107 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Rev. Charles G. Finney, The Character, claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry, 1859, p. 17}
"The Courts of justice found themselves entirely unable to make any headway against the wide-spread conspiracy that was formed among Masons.... It was found that they could do nothing with the courts, with the sheriffs, with the witnesses, or with the jurors."
Thus, Gary H. Kah, a government official who has traced and documented the efforts of the Masonic conspiracy for world domination into the 1980's and 1990's, in his book En Route to Global Occupation, places the events in Captain Morgan's day into context:
Early in his career as an attorney, Finney had himself been a Mason; but he left the Lodge following his conversion to Christ, becoming an evangelist instead. ... The following excerpts are taken from his book, which was published in 1869.
I came to the deliberate conclusion, and could not avoid doing so, that my oaths had been procured by fraud and misrepresentations, and that the institution was in no respect what I had been previously informed it was. And, as I have had the means of examining it more thoroughly, it has become more and more irresistibly plain to my convictions that the institution is highly dangerous to the State, and in every way injurious to the Church of Christ. (p. 8)
Referring to Captain Morgan, Finney stated: He ... was aware, as Masons generally were at the time, that nearly all the civil offices in the country were in the hands of Freemasons; and that the press was completely under their control, and almost altogether in their hands. Masons at that time boasted that all the civil offices in the country were in their hands. I believe that all the civil offices in the county where I resided while I belonged to them, were in their hands. I do not recollect a magistrate, or a constable, or sheriff in that county that was not at that time a Freemason. (p.10)
Referring to Captain Morgan, Finney stated:
He ... was aware, as Masons generally were at the time, that nearly all the civil offices in the country were in the hands of Freemasons; and that the press was completely under their control, and almost altogether in their hands. Masons at that time boasted that all the civil offices in the country were in their hands. I believe that all the civil offices in the county where I resided while I belonged to them, were in their hands. I do not recollect a magistrate, or a constable, or sheriff in that county that was not at that time a Freemason. (p.10)
Can a man who has taken and still adheres to the oath of the Royal Arch degree be trusted in office? He swears to espouse the cause of a companion of this degree when involved in any difficulty, so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong. He swears to conceal his crimes, murder and treason not excepted. ...(pp. 270-271) p. 131 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991 {quoted from The Character, Claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry, Rev. Charles G. Finney, "the great nineteenth century evangelist and longtime president of Oberlin College." -- En Route, p. 130}
Can a man who has taken and still adheres to the oath of the Royal Arch degree be trusted in office? He swears to espouse the cause of a companion of this degree when involved in any difficulty, so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong. He swears to conceal his crimes, murder and treason not excepted. ...(pp. 270-271)
p. 131 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991
{quoted from The Character, Claims and Practical Workings of Freemasonry,
Rev. Charles G. Finney, "the great nineteenth century evangelist and longtime president of Oberlin College." -- En Route, p. 130}
William Still similarly takes up the issue in his book New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies. Citing the subversive and criminal elements of the Royal Arch degree oath discussed by Rev. Finney, William T. Still links the ramifications with the revelations by Stephen Knight in his famous expose The Brotherhood, which concentrated on the activities of British Masonry.
This is why Masonry actively seeks members in the legal professions of every community, and raises them to the Royal Arch degree as soon as possible. In such communities then, Masonry is free to do whatever it pleases. p. 110 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
This is why Masonry actively seeks members in the legal professions of every community, and raises them to the Royal Arch degree as soon as possible. In such communities then, Masonry is free to do whatever it pleases.
p. 110
New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
The inescapable conclusion of the revelations of the criminal nature of the Royal Arch oath coupled with the manifest application thereof in America and elsewhere, was aptly drawn by a descendant of Patrick Henry, author William Still.
During the initiation into the Royal Arch degree, the candidate drinks wine from a cup made from the top half of a human skull.
Based on the overwhelming and uncontradicted evidence of dozens of authors over several centuries, there can be no excuse to allow anyone who is a Mason of the Royal Arch degree to become a local sheriff, judge, prosecutor, or police investigator. These men have all sworn with their lives to protect Masons of the same degree from the wheels of justice. p. 110 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
Based on the overwhelming and uncontradicted evidence of dozens of authors over several centuries, there can be no excuse to allow anyone who is a Mason of the Royal Arch degree to become a local sheriff, judge, prosecutor, or police investigator. These men have all sworn with their lives to protect Masons of the same degree from the wheels of justice.
p. 110 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
As in the case of Reverend Finney, the procurement of membership in an organization which represents itself fraudulently to the public and to members of lower degrees represents a commitment which some persons have involved themselves in, but have later extricated themselves from.
John Marshall, the great chief justice of the United States Supreme Court, {"included in the same section with Albert Pike and Adam Weishaupt" in the book Famous Masons and Masonic Presidents} wrote {shortly before his death}:
The institution of Masonry ought to be abandoned, as one capable of producing much evil, and incapable of producing any good which might not be affected by open means. {footnote} p. 132 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991 {footnote: W..J. McCormick, Christ, the Christian, and Freemasonry (Belfast: GreatJoy Publications, 1984), p. 111-112}
The institution of Masonry ought to be abandoned, as one capable of producing much evil, and incapable of producing any good which might not be affected by open means.
p. 132 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991
{footnote: W..J. McCormick, Christ, the Christian, and Freemasonry (Belfast: GreatJoy Publications, 1984), p. 111-112}
The "institution of Masonry" which Chief Justice John Marshal, at last, wrote "ought to be abandoned" and "capable of producing much evil", is one which is often presented by Masons as a truly "American" institution, and boast of Founding Father membership. Boast ?
Other U.S. presidents who condemned Freemasonry include ... James Madison, John Quincy Adams (who campaigned openly against the Order), and Millard Fillmore. Madison and Fillmore had both been Masons and were therefore speaking from experience. p.133 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991
Other U.S. presidents who condemned Freemasonry include ... James Madison, John Quincy Adams (who campaigned openly against the Order), and Millard Fillmore. Madison and Fillmore had both been Masons and were therefore speaking from experience.
p.133 En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, 1991
Yet another manner in which Masonry holds the capacity to "... {defeat} the administration of justice" is by having it's members swear obedience to the dictates or "edicts" of Masonic bodies, which obedience is placed in the context of swearing to conceal crimes including murder and treason.
Oaths of Allegiance
Ask an American who the President is, who his Senators are, who his Congressman is. It doesn't pose a problem Ask a Catholic who the Pope is. Identity is not a problem. But ask a Mason who the men are of the Supreme Council of the 33rd Degree, who preside over the "statutes of the order", and it is not simply you who have a task on your hands. The question concerns a secret council of men presiding over Masonry. Compare or contrast the oath of the 30th degree of the Scottish Rite with your recollection of the oath the President of the United Sates takes upon inauguration.
FROM THE THIRTIETH DEGREE OF The SCOTTISH RITE
.. I, _______, of my own free will and accord, do hereby solemnly and sincerely promise and swear to keep faithful the secrets of the sublime degree of Knights Kadosh and strictly to obey the statutes of the order.... All of which I promise to do, under penalty of death. So help me God. Swear therefrom, upon your word of honor, never to reveal what you have seen or heard hitherto ... Forget not that the slightest indiscretion will cost you your life. Are you still willing to proceed ? (Italics added) {footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 2:269-70, 275} p. 185 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg & John Weldon, 1989, 1990
.. I, _______, of my own free will and accord, do hereby solemnly and sincerely promise and swear to keep faithful the secrets of the sublime degree of Knights Kadosh and strictly to obey the statutes of the order.... All of which I promise to do, under penalty of death. So help me God. Swear therefrom, upon your word of honor, never to reveal what you have seen or heard hitherto ... Forget not that the slightest indiscretion will cost you your life. Are you still willing to proceed ? (Italics added)
{footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 2:269-70, 275}
p. 185 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge:
A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg & John Weldon, 1989, 1990
The Mason swears "strictly to obey the statures of the order." ... "under penalty of death"
Of course, a Presidential or other oath swearing a person to defend the U.S. Constitution is diametrically opposed by secretly sworn oaths such as those already considered.
The Masonic "order" is presided over by the 33rd degree, which cannot be "earned" but is attainable only by invitation upon special recognition of service to the Order. It is also more secretly presided over by what is later disclosed as the diabolical Palladian Rite.
Notice that the eighteenth degree Mason swears to "observe and obey all the decrees which may be transmitted ... by the Supreme Council of the thirty-third degree" as an "obligation."
FROM THE EIGHTEENTH DEGREE OF THE SCOTTISH RITE
And I do furthermore swear, promise and engage on my sacred word of honor, to observe and obey all the decrees which may be transmitted to me by the Grand Inspectors General in Supreme Council of the thirty-third degree.... So help me God and keep me steadfast in this my solemn obligation. Amen. {footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:473} p. 184 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg & John Weldon, 1989, 1990
And I do furthermore swear, promise and engage on my sacred word of honor, to observe and obey all the decrees which may be transmitted to me by the Grand Inspectors General in Supreme Council of the thirty-third degree.... So help me God and keep me steadfast in this my solemn obligation. Amen.
{footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:473}
p. 184 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge:
Eighteenth degree Masons swear " to observe and obey all the decrees which may be transmitted to me by the Grand Inspectors General in Supreme Council of the thirty-third degree." Particularly in the context of oaths swearing to the concealment of "secrets" of fellow Masons as "inviolable," swearing to such an "obligation" to obey all the "decrees" transmitted by the Supreme Council of the thirty-third degree which presides over York and Scottish Rites clearly comprises the makings, not only of an "invisible" behind-the-scenes government, but one which is constituted criminally and in violation and opposition to the laws and principles of the United States Constitution.
To whom do 33rd degree Masons swear their allegiance ?
Whom do they recognize as the supreme authority ?
Whom do they refuse to recognize as a member of the Scottish Rite if one does not also recognize the same supreme authority ?
When it was time for the final obligation we all stood and repeated the oath with the representative candidate, administered by the Sovereign Grand Inspector General. We then swore true allegiance to the Supreme Council of the 33rd Degree, above all other allegiances, and swore never to recognize any other brother as being a member of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry unless he also recognizes the supreme authority of "this Supreme Council."
the certificate of the 33rd Degree. p. 105 The Deadly Deception: Jim Shaw & Tom McKenney, 1988
the certificate of the 33rd Degree.
p. 105 The Deadly Deception: Jim Shaw & Tom McKenney, 1988
"Supreme authority of "this Supreme Council"" of the 33rd degree?
"... swore true allegiance to the Supreme Council of the 33rd degree, above all other allegiances" ?
If true allegiance is given to an organization in opposition to the laws and principles of the United States Constitution, it should be quite obvious how allegiance sworn to the U.S. Constitution in which it stands in opposition is respectively characterized, particularly by such manner of emphasis. Swearing to conceal crimes, not excluding murder and treason, comprises a sworn declaration in opposition to the laws and principles of the U.S. Constitution. The meaning of the expression "true allegiance" is evident, and precludes "true allegiance" to the U.S. Constitution to which it stands in covert defiance.
Murder and Treason
Although the "murder and treason not excepted" clause is followed at the "election" of the Mason, the intent not to exclude murder and treason as an option is embodied in the oath.
If, within the body of Masonry, murder and treason are crimes to be covered up at the election of the Master Mason, it becomes difficult to argue that murder and treason are themselves not committed to the election of a Mason. Death at vengeful hands is prescribed as the penalty for violating the oath. Masonry is an organization which makes the provision for covering up such crimes even at the Master Mason level, and at higher levels or degrees it actually obligates the Mason to cover up such crimes. At some higher levels, it specifically obligates the Mason to be ready to commit vengeance murder.
The formulation of the Master Mason's oath at the time of the formation of the Anti-Masonic Party is intriguing. Within the context of swearing to "binding myself under no less penalty than to have my body severed in two ..." the candidate swears to obligations which might have been withheld from explicit description in the Master Mason's oath. The candidate swears to "hold myself amenable thereto" "whenever informed" "if any part of my solemn oath or obligation be omitted at this time ..."
That commitment follows swearing to the obligation "that a Master Mason's secrets ... shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own, ... murder and treason excepted; and they left to my own election." Indeed, the candidate has already sworn to "conform to all the by-laws, rules, and regulations of this or any other lodge of which I may at any time hereafter become a member."
Those rules exact the death penalty for violating the secrecy of the oath. It therefore becomes intriguing whether the means or mechanism for exacting the death penalty is explicitly expressed, presented in a veiled formulation, or left as part of obligations enunciated or directed in the future as needed pursuant to the expressions "hold myself amenable thereto" "whenever informed" "if any part of my solemn oath or obligation be omitted at this time ..."
If the mechanism of exacting the death penalty is not veiled or embedded in the formulation "... murder and treason excepted; and they left to my own election", the structure for providing the means of execution is given by having the candidate swear to hold himself amenable to obligations omitted at the time of taking the Master Mason oath.
The candidate has, in fact, already sworn in the First Degree "to all of which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the least equivocation, mental reservation ... binding myself under no less penalty than to have my throat cut across ... and my body buried in the rough sands of the sea ... and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same."
The tenth and fourteenth degrees of the Scottish Rite (4 through 32) provide further insight as to the construction and configuration of the body of Masonic obligations. The language is most explicit.
In the fourteenth degree the context of obligations explicitly provides to "inflict vengeance on traitors" to the secrecy of the mysteries and secrecy of the degree.
FROM THE INITIATION OATH OF THE FOURTEENTH DEGREE OF THE SCOTTISH RITE
I do most solemnly and sincerely swear on the Holy Bible, and in the presence of the Grand Architect of the Universe...Never to reveal...the mysteries of this our Sacred and High Degree....In failure of this, my obligation, I consent to have my belly cut open, my bowels torn from thence and given to the hungry vultures. [The initiation discourse by the Grand Orator also states, "to inflict vengeance on traitors and to punish perfidy and injustice"] {footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:316-17} p. 183 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg, John Weldon, 1989, 1990
I do most solemnly and sincerely swear on the Holy Bible, and in the presence of the Grand Architect of the Universe...Never to reveal...the mysteries of this our Sacred and High Degree....In failure of this, my obligation, I consent to have my belly cut open, my bowels torn from thence and given to the hungry vultures. [The initiation discourse by the Grand Orator also states, "to inflict vengeance on traitors and to punish perfidy and injustice"]
{footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:316-17}
p. 183 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge:
Prior to that oath the mechanism or means for inflicting vengeance is given.
FROM THE INITIATION OF THE TENTH DEGREE OF THE SCOTTISH RITE
I do promise and swear upon the Holy Bible...To keep exactly in my heart all the secrets that shall be revealed to me. And in failure of this my obligation, I consent to have my body opened perpendicularly, and to be exposed for eight hours in the open air, that the venomous flies my eat of my entrails, my head to be cut off and put on the highest pinnacle of the world, and I will always be ready to inflict the same punishment on those who shall disclose this degree and break this obligation. So may God help and maintain me. Amen. .... {footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:196-97} p. 182 The Secret Teachings of the Masonic Lodge: A Christian Perspective, John Ankerberg, John Weldon, 1989, 1990
I do promise and swear upon the Holy Bible...To keep exactly in my heart all the secrets that shall be revealed to me. And in failure of this my obligation, I consent to have my body opened perpendicularly, and to be exposed for eight hours in the open air, that the venomous flies my eat of my entrails, my head to be cut off and put on the highest pinnacle of the world, and I will always be ready to inflict the same punishment on those who shall disclose this degree and break this obligation. So may God help and maintain me. Amen. ....
{footnote: Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, 1:196-97}
Note closely that the Mason swears to keep the secrets upon penalty of death. Note particularly that the Mason swears to "always be ready to inflict the same punishment {death} on those who shall disclose this degree and break this obligation." What the Mason taking such an oath is clearly swearing to is the obligation to commit murder. He is swearing to commit murder of those who violate the secrecy of the oath, which is a secret of every Mason taking the oath. In the Master Mason's degree oath which Captain Morgan revealed to the American public, the Mason swears to the penalty of death should he violate the secrecy of the degree.
Hence, when the Master Mason swears to "conceal" a fellow Master Mason's secrets, murder and treason at his own election, it is the body of Masonic oaths which reveal that it is not only secrets of murder and treason which are themselves the focal point, but retrospectively it is evident that the mechanisms for concealing murder and treason operate in conjunction with mechanisms for the commission of murder and treason, and that such activities are specifically provided for in matters as simple as the violation of secrecy.
The Masonic obligation to commit murder as formulated in the tenth degree of the Scottish Rite is given at a level below that of the Royal Arch degree in the York Rite in which murder and treason are not excepted as an obligation pertaining to Mason's secrets. Concealing murder or treason is the obvious reference in the Royal Arch Degree oath. The body of Masonic oaths might suggest an additional, somewhat veiled, meaning as well.
The Royal Arch Degree requires extricating a fellow Mason from "any difficulty" "whether he be right or wrong" and further specifies that the obligation to do so is binding upon the swearing Mason under penalty of death. Thus, where in the Royal Arch degree the exceptions of concealing murder and treason are removed as to keeping the secrets of a fellow Royal Arch Mason, it can hardly be suggested that the Royal Arch degree oath excepts murder and treason as the means to "keep" said secrets.
Indeed, the Mason swears himself, "binding {himself} ... under no less penalty" than death to extricate another Royal Arch Mason from "any difficulty" and "in due performance of the same."
... I furthermore promise and swear, that I will assist a Companion Royal Arch Mason when I see him engaged in any difficulty, and will espouse his cause so far as to extricate him from the same, whether he be right or wrong .... To all [of this] which I do most solemnly and sincerely promises and swear, with a firm and steadfast resolution to keep and perform the same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less penalty, than to have my skull smote off, and my brains exposed to the scorching rays of the Meridian sun, should I knowingly or willfully violate or transgress any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Royal Arch Mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same.
Unmistakably the makings for a criminal "invisible government" "beyond the laws of the land" evident even at the lower levels or degrees, is what Captain Morgan uncovered for the American people.
U.S. Constitutional Crisis
Captain William Morgan was martyred for the U.S. Constitution. He was martyred by Masonic "constitutions." The masonically constituted oaths expressed in covert defiance to the principles of America's duly established Constitution comprise corrupting foundations for the individual and for an entire nation. Captain Morgan rose above Masonry's subversion of the human spirit and mockery of the God of Justice. He was not bound by Masonic oaths, he was bound by a noble conscience, he was bound by the U.S. Constitution, he was bound to the principles of justice.
Among the disclosures by Captain Morgan are included the following regarding the Master Mason's oath.
I, A. B., of my own free will and accord, in the presence of Almighty God, and this worshipful lodge of Master Masons, dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and hereon most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, in addition to my former obligations ...
Furthermore, do I promise and swear that I will not be at the initiating, passing, or raising a candidate in a clandestine lodge, I knowing it to be such. ...
Furthermore do I promise and swear that I will support the constitution of the Grand Lodge of the state of _____. under which the lodge is held, and conform to all the by-laws, rules, and regulations of this or any other lodge of which I may at any time hereafter become a member.
Furthermore do I promise and swear that I will obey all regular signs, summonses, or tokens given, handed, sent, or thrown to me from the hand of a brother Master Mason, or from the body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge of such, provided it be within the length of my cable-tow.
Furthermore do I promise and swear that if any part of my solemn oath or obligation be omitted at this time, that I will hold myself amenable thereto whenever informed. To all which I do most sincerely promise and swear, with a fixed and steady purpose of mind in me to keep and perform the same, binding myself under no less penalty than to have my body severed in two in the midst, and divided to the north and south, my bowels burnt to ashes in the center, and the ashes scattered before the four winds of heaven, that there might not the least track or trace of remembrance remain among men. or Masons, of so vile and perjured a wretch as I should be, were I ever to prove willfully guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Master Mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the performance of the same. p. 76 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ... Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY (FREEMASONRY EXPOSED)
Furthermore do I promise and swear that if any part of my solemn oath or obligation be omitted at this time, that I will hold myself amenable thereto whenever informed. To all which I do most sincerely promise and swear, with a fixed and steady purpose of mind in me to keep and perform the same, binding myself under no less penalty than to have my body severed in two in the midst, and divided to the north and south, my bowels burnt to ashes in the center, and the ashes scattered before the four winds of heaven, that there might not the least track or trace of remembrance remain among men. or Masons, of so vile and perjured a wretch as I should be, were I ever to prove willfully guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Master Mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the performance of the same.
p. 76 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY
EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY (FREEMASONRY EXPOSED)
Of the first degree, or Entered Apprentice Degree, among the disclosures of Captain Morgan are included the following:
A Description of the Ceremonies used in opening a Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons; which is the same in all upper degrees, with the exception of the difference in the signs, due-guards, grips, pass-grips, words and their several names; all of which will be given and explained in their proper places as the work progresses.
... the Master taking off his hat, proceeds as follows: In like manner so do I, strictly forbidding all profane language, private committees, or any other disorderly conduct whereby the peace and harmony of this lodge may be interrupted while engaged in its lawful pursuits, under no less penalty than the by-laws, or such penalty as the majority of the Brethren present may see fit to inflict. Brethren, attend to giving the signs.' [Here lodges differ very much. In some they declare the lodge opened as follows, before they give the signs:]
The Master (all the Brethren imitating him) extends his left arm from his body so as ...
The Senior Warden declares it to the Junior Warden, and he to the Brethren. 'Come, Brethren, let us pray.' --- One of the following prayers is used:...
...And we beseech thee, O Lord God, to bless our present assembling; and to illuminate our minds through the influence of the Son of Righteousness ...
As soon as the candidate is placed in this position, the Worshipful Master approaches him, and says, "Mr. A. B., you are now placed in a proper position to take upon you the solemn oath or obligation of an Entered Apprentice Mason, which I assure you is neither to affect your religion or politics ... The following obligation is then administered: I, A. B., of my own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty God and this worshipful lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and hereon most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear that I will always hail, ever conceal and never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry which I have received, am about to receive, or may hereafter be instructed in, to any person or persons in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful brother Mason, or within the body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge of such ... To all of which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the least equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less penalty than to have my throat cut across, my tongue torn out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough sands of the sea at low water-mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours; so help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same."
As soon as the candidate is placed in this position, the Worshipful Master approaches him, and says, "Mr. A. B., you are now placed in a proper position to take upon you the solemn oath or obligation of an Entered Apprentice Mason, which I assure you is neither to affect your religion or politics ...
The following obligation is then administered:
I, A. B., of my own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty God and this worshipful lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and hereon most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear that I will always hail, ever conceal and never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry which I have received, am about to receive, or may hereafter be instructed in, to any person or persons in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful brother Mason, or within the body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge of such ...
To all of which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the least equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less penalty than to have my throat cut across, my tongue torn out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough sands of the sea at low water-mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours; so help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same."
The Master then declares the lodge opened in the following manner: 'I now declare this lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons duly opened for dispatch of business.' ... p. 15 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY Who has devoted Thirty Years to the Subject. ... Printed for the Proprietor, 1827, CAPT. WM. MORGAN'S EXPOSITION OF FREEMASONRY (FREEMASONRY EXPOSED)
The Master then declares the lodge opened in the following manner: 'I now declare this lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons duly opened for dispatch of business.' ...
p. 15 ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY by ONE OF THE FRATERNITY
The deception of 'holding forth to' the holy order of St. John, represents a device employed by the medieval Knights Templar (the Scottish Freemasonry connection) "in order not to arouse the suspicions" while having "two doctrines, one concealed and reserved for the Masters." The St. John Ploy was elucidated as such in writing by the Supreme Sovereign of the Scottish Rite, Albert Pike. [Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike, pps. 818, 817].
Striking also is the unequivocal lie about representing Freemasonry as not affecting one's religion. Astoundingly, the very "mysteries of ancient Freemasonry" referred to in the oath are rooted in ancient pagan mystery religion.
The "secret arts" of the "mysteries of ancient Freemasonry" are the subject of the "inner machinery" of Freemasonry as this expose develops
Remarkably, Masonry portrays itself as embodying noble principles, as a system through which character is built.
Hence a Mason is a builder of the temple of character. He is the architect of a sublime mystery -- the gleaming, glowing temple of his own soul.
A Mason is not necessarily a member of a lodge. p. [xxiii] The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall, 1923
A Mason is not necessarily a member of a lodge.
p. [xxiii] The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall, 1923
Thirty-third degree Mason Manly P. Hall expositions on Masonic philosophy or "universal law" later show that the Masonic concept of justice and character comports with Masonry's criminal oaths. Clandestine Lodges
Clandestine Lodges
"Freemasonry is a fraternity within a fraternity, an outer organization concealing an inner brotherhood of the elect." p. 433 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
"Freemasonry is a fraternity within a fraternity, an outer organization concealing an inner brotherhood of the elect."
p. 433 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy:
An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
It should come as no surprise that such an organization has "clandestine" lodges.
The Master Mason oath swearing: "Furthermore, do I promise and swear that I will not be at the initiating, passing, or raising a candidate in a clandestine lodge, I knowing it to be such" is quite amazing in what it reveals about the organization.
Compartmentalization also appears evident in what Captain Morgan revealed in some differences in the opening statements of Lodge meetings of the First or Entered Apprentice Degree. Captain Morgan cites one opening which employed the expression "under no less penalty than the by-laws, or such penalty as the majority of the Brethren present may see fit to inflict." and then Morgan comments 'Here lodges differ very much.' In some they declare the lodge opened as follows, before they give the signs: and goes on the relate an elaborate prayer. This difference in opening ceremony, in Captain Morgan's day, could very well represent one aspect of compartmentalization. Clandestine lodges, however, represent the ultimate in compartmentalization.
An oath swearing not to visit clandestine Masonic lodges itself recognizes the provision for clandestine lodges. Members of such lodges would first of all have the least risk of exposure as being Masons. The Master Mason oath has provided specifically for protecting the identity of clandestine Masons. Clandestine Masons as judges or sheriffs suggests scenarios wherein the criminal empire of Masonry may have better weathered official investigations, as well as the scrutiny of America's Anti-Masonic Party.
In view of the criminal elements of Masonry, clandestine membership in Masonry poses particularly serious potential dangers not only to the public at large, but to organizations which do not allow Masonic membership, such as particular religious bodies, targeted for subversion by Weishaupt's Illuminati.
The role of the Illuminati operating clandestinely even in the lower three degrees of Freemasonry, as outlined by Weishaupt, has been complemented by Lodges dedicated to the Illuminati.
On July 16, 1782, the year after the British surrendered to the Americans, representatives of the world's secret societies convened the Congress of Wilhelmsbad in Europe and formally joined Masonry and the Illuminati. In the next four years the Order was able to secretly establish several lodges in America. In 1785, for example, the Columbian Lodge of the Order of the Illuminati was established in New York City. Its members included Governor DeWitt Clinton, Clinton Roosevelt ... p.92 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
On July 16, 1782, the year after the British surrendered to the Americans, representatives of the world's secret societies convened the Congress of Wilhelmsbad in Europe and formally joined Masonry and the Illuminati. In the next four years the Order was able to secretly establish several lodges in America. In 1785, for example, the Columbian Lodge of the Order of the Illuminati was established in New York City. Its members included Governor DeWitt Clinton, Clinton Roosevelt ...
p.92 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
Aberdeen Lodge Principles
The Masonic "constitution" by which Captain Morgan was murdered is the substance of Masonry's oaths whose inimical strain has been identified and certified to exist as far back as in the Aberdeen Constitution which formulated the infliction of punishment having the economic effect of the destruction of a man and his family for his seeking justice from duly constituted civil authorities pertaining even to the matter of fines imposed by a Lodge. The "brethren" were constituted to make the subject a perjured man, as noted previously.
The principles enshrined in the Aberdeen Lodge Constitution have saturated Masonry. They are manifest in the oaths which Capt. William Morgan exposed, as well as in Masonic oaths at the close of the twentieth century.
Having in mind the criminal acts to which Masonic oaths "obligate" a member, and having in mind the oaths of obedience and allegiance to a secret body of men known as the Supreme Council of the Thirty-third degree, examine Aberdeen Lodge Principles which have been perpetuated.
The infliction of punishment included making their victim look like a perjured man with the evident device of swearing falsely against him, committing perjury themselves, as noted earlier in this chapter.
Failure to keep the terms of a contract or agreement does not constitute perjury. Bearing false witness under oath constitutes perjury. Thus, in the Master Mason's oath the Aberdeen Perjury Principle, making a victim have the appearance of being guilty of perjury, is included. Masons, by distributing bogus editions of Morgan's expose, sought to give him the appearance of lying about Masonry's obligations and devices. Thus the effort was made to fulfill upon Captain Morgan the words "of so vile and perjured a wretch as I should be, were I ever to prove willfully guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of a Master Mason."
Another principle embodied in the Aberdeen Constitution pertains to affecting a man's employment. Masonry, first of all, has the means of co-opting a profession or institution, private or governmental, legal, medical, educational, or otherwise.
In the Royal Arch degree of the York Rite, ...
... the candidate promises to:
... employ a Companion Royal Arch Mason in preference to any other person of equal qualification. {footnote} {footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 230} p. 91 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
... employ a Companion Royal Arch Mason in preference to any other person of equal qualification.
{footnote: Duncan, Malcolm C., Duncan's Masonic Ritual and Monitor, p. 230}
While the Royal Arch Mason is obligated (Masonically) to exercise preference in his hiring practices, the person who is by-passed is being excluded from an employment opportunity to which he may be legally and ethically entitled but who is by-passed in favor of an applicant who has sworn to criminal actions.
The employment ramifications are particularly serious in a profession in which Masonry has obtained significant conquest not only in that Masons of said degree are "obligation" bound to hire Masons in preference to other equally qualified applicants, but when a profession or governmental institution is largely co-opted by Masonry, the oath, obedience and allegiance structure pressures the members to tow the line lest face repercussions to their career.
The penalties which lodge members are 'obligated' to impose upon infracting members, "to inflict vengeance on traitors," is not likely to be seen as limited to having one's "belly cut open, ... bowels torn from thence and given to the hungry vultures."
The destruction of a person's career or economic prospects are tantamount to the penalty expressed in the words "the slightest indiscretion will cost you your life." Although at the writing of this book this author has found explicit reference to economic sanctions only in the Aberdeen Constitution, the precedent set with the Aberdeen Constitution later included among those to have been written in 'new and better form,' has not been countermanded by the substance of Masonic oaths since.
Indeed, the severe penalties enunciated in the oaths employ an expression having the capacity to embrace a wide range of possibilities for retribution, with the inimical formulation "no less than" which does not place limits, whereas the destruction of the means of life might be regarded as fulfilling the phrase "no less than."
Investigations
Following the murder of Captain Morgan, three state legislatures investigated Freemasonry. New York, 1829; Massachusetts, 1834; and Pennsylvania, 1836. In addition to obtaining corroborative testimony from other Masons who left Freemasonry, as to the nature and substance of the oaths, the investigations revealed that an operative criminal empire had entrenched itself in America. Obstruction to the investigations was encountered at every level.
New York obstruction: Obstruction, if not also evident perjury, by Masonic witnesses under oath, and obstruction by grand juries comprised chiefly of Masons.
The New York legislators said Masonic witnesses on the stand "have sworn to facts, which in the opinion of bystanders, were not credited by a single one of the hundreds of persons who were present." Moreover, grand juries, "a majority of whom were masons," omitted to find bills of indictment "when there was proof before them of outrages not surpassed in grossness and indecency by any committed in the country since the first settlement." {footnote 67} p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829; footnote 67: pp. 7-8
The New York legislators said Masonic witnesses on the stand "have sworn to facts, which in the opinion of bystanders, were not credited by a single one of the hundreds of persons who were present." Moreover, grand juries, "a majority of whom were masons," omitted to find bills of indictment "when there was proof before them of outrages not surpassed in grossness and indecency by any committed in the country since the first settlement." {footnote 67}
p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829; footnote 67: pp. 7-8
Massachusetts obstruction: Obstruction by the State Senate.
Much of the same information uncovered by the New York Senate in 1829, also was found five years later to be common in the State of Massachusetts, when a Joint Committee of the legislature of the latter State investigated the Craft.
Masons invited to appear before the Joint Committee refused to do so, and though the Massachusetts House approved subpoena power for the committee, the State Senate refused to do so. {footnote 70} p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 footnote 70: Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 9-10.
Masons invited to appear before the Joint Committee refused to do so, and though the Massachusetts House approved subpoena power for the committee, the State Senate refused to do so. {footnote 70}
p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
footnote 70: Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 9-10.
It is indeed profoundly significant that following the findings issued in the report of the New York Senate Committee in 1829, the State Senate of Massachusetts refused to approve subpoena power for the Joint Committee of both Massachusetts legislatures, although the Massachusetts House approved the subpoena power. Said refusal may have provided the most chilling evidence that the Massachusetts Committee's findings had been certified at the highest echelons of Massachusetts State government. What did those findings include ?
The Committee found Freemasonry was "a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy, and the oaths and regulations which its subjects are bound to obey, under penalties of death." The committee added that "in no Masonic oath presented to the committee, is there any reservation made of the Constitution and the laws of the land." {footnote 71}
The Committee found Freemasonry was "a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy, and the oaths and regulations which its subjects are bound to obey, under penalties of death." The committee added that "in no Masonic oath presented to the committee, is there any reservation made of the Constitution and the laws of the land."
{footnote 71}
The Joint Committee found Freemasonry to be a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," and a "political evil." {footnote 72} p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 footnote 71: Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 14-21. footnote 72: p. 11
The Joint Committee found Freemasonry to be a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," and a "political evil." {footnote 72}
footnote 71: Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 14-21. footnote 72: p. 11
Pennsylvania obstruction: Obstruction by witnesses.
In all, nineteen witnesses refused to provide sworn testimony to the committee. Other witnesses informed the legislators that Masons influence judicial decisions and consider Masonic oaths superior to all other oaths. {footnote 74} p. 36 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 {footnotes: Testimony Taken by the Committee of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives To Investigate the Evils of Freemasonry, Read in the House of Representatives June 13, 1836, Theodore Finn, Harrisburg, 1836, p. 15. footnote 74: pp. 39-42, 46.
In all, nineteen witnesses refused to provide sworn testimony to the committee. Other witnesses informed the legislators that Masons influence judicial decisions and consider Masonic oaths superior to all other oaths.
{footnote 74}
p. 36 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
{footnotes: Testimony Taken by the Committee of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives To Investigate the Evils of Freemasonry, Read in the House of Representatives June 13, 1836, Theodore Finn, Harrisburg, 1836, p. 15.
footnote 74: pp. 39-42, 46.
The magnitude of obstruction, by witnesses, but by grand juries composed mainly of Masons, and the Massachusetts State Senate to official State government investigations, underlines, highlights, and further certifies with powerful emphasis the report of the New York Senate Committee on Freemasonry:
"It comprises men of rank, wealth, office and talents in power -- and that almost in every place where power is of any importance -- it comprises, among the other classes of the community, to the lowest, in large numbers, and capable of being directed by the efforts of others so as to have the force of concert through the civilized world!
"They are distributed too, with the means of knowing each other, and the means of keeping secret, and the means of co-operating, in the desk, in the legislative hall, on the bench, in every gathering of men of business, in every party of pleasure, in every enterprise of government, in every domestic circle, in peace and in war, among its enemies and friends, in one place as well as another. So powerful, indeed, is it at this time, that it fears nothing from violence, either public or private, for it has every means to learn it in season, to counteract, defeat and punish it . . . . " {footnote 64} p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 footnote 64: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14
"They are distributed too, with the means of knowing each other, and the means of keeping secret, and the means of co-operating, in the desk, in the legislative hall, on the bench, in every gathering of men of business, in every party of pleasure, in every enterprise of government, in every domestic circle, in peace and in war, among its enemies and friends, in one place as well as another. So powerful, indeed, is it at this time, that it fears nothing from violence, either public or private, for it has every means to learn it in season, to counteract, defeat and punish it . . . . "
{footnote 64}
footnote 64: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14
Paul A. Fisher, who had served in the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) during WWII and as a counterintelligence Officer in Korea, demonstrates in his book Behind the Lodge Door how the U.S. Supreme Court has been smitten by Masonic influence and the Masonic agenda and has focused on the magnitude of the subversion.
Fisher also conveys the extent of the Masonic base, historically, in government enabling wide-spread and preponderant subversion, which reads very much like modern reports.
The report noted that there were approximately 30,000 Freemasons in the State of New York -- about one-forth of the eligible voting population -- "yet they have held for forty years, three-fourths" of all public offices in the State. {footnote 65} Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 footnote 64: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14; footnote 65: p. 15
The report noted that there were approximately 30,000 Freemasons in the State of New York -- about one-forth of the eligible voting population -- "yet they have held for forty years, three-fourths" of all public offices in the State.
{footnote 65}
Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
footnote 64: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14; footnote 65: p. 15
The New York State Senate Committee provided an investigative connecting link between Adam Weishaupt's declared designs on the press and the Bilderberger statement by Rockefeller regarding the conspiracy of silence by the press in concealing a plan for world government by an elite oligarchy.
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of masonic influence, or has been smitten with the rod of its power." {footnote 66} p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 {footnotes: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, footnote 66: p. 11
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of masonic influence, or has been smitten with the rod of its power."
{footnote 66}
{footnotes: Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, footnote 66: p. 11
The German Illuminati's plan to control the presentation of information, in short, to control all publishing and media domains, has not been absolutely successful. It was Adam Weishaupt's plan:
"to monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers." p. foreword - 5, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, By John Robison, A.M., 1798
"to monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers."
p. foreword - 5, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, By John Robison, A.M., 1798
Conscientious men such as Captain William Morgan and Professor John Robison have disclosed to, and put into the grasp of the public essential elements and blueprints of the evil "Plan" and it's machinery. "With few exceptions" the "press" itself has served as an integral part of the masonic machinery.
Masonry, a vast organism of propaganda, acts by slow suggestion, spreading the revolutionary ferment in an insidious manner. The heads sow it among the inner lodges, these transmit it to the lower lodges whence it penetrates into the affiliated institutions and into the press, which takes in hand the public. {footnote} p.99 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: In quire Within (pen name for Miss Stoddard), Trail of the Serpent, (Hawthorne, CA: re-published by Omni Christian Book Club, a collection of essays which appeared in the Patriot between 1925 and 1930) p. 94-95}
Masonry, a vast organism of propaganda, acts by slow suggestion, spreading the revolutionary ferment in an insidious manner. The heads sow it among the inner lodges, these transmit it to the lower lodges whence it penetrates into the affiliated institutions and into the press, which takes in hand the public. {footnote}
p.99 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: In quire Within (pen name for Miss Stoddard), Trail of the Serpent, (Hawthorne, CA: re-published by Omni Christian Book Club, a collection of essays which appeared in the Patriot between 1925 and 1930) p. 94-95}
Masonic Mafia
There is much which can be learned from the victimization of Captain Morgan as to methods which Freemasonry has employed. William Morgan was taken into custody "under pretended forms and warrants of law." The pretense of law was used to place him into the hands of his enemies.
Carlile, in his Manual of Freemasonry, gives the following particulars : "My exposure of Freemasonry, in 1825, led to its exposure in the United States of America ; and a Mason there, of the name of William Morgan, having announced his intention of assisting in the work of exposure, was kidnapped, under pretended forms and warrants of law, by his brother Masons, removed from the State of New York to the borders of Canada, near the falls of Niagara, and there most barbarously murdered. This happened in 1826. ... Several persons were punished for the abduction of Morgan : but the murderers were sheltered by Masonic Lodges, and rescued from justice." p. 229 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
Carlile, in his Manual of Freemasonry, gives the following particulars :
"My exposure of Freemasonry, in 1825, led to its exposure in the United States of America ; and a Mason there, of the name of William Morgan, having announced his intention of assisting in the work of exposure, was kidnapped, under pretended forms and warrants of law, by his brother Masons, removed from the State of New York to the borders of Canada, near the falls of Niagara, and there most barbarously murdered. This happened in 1826. ...
Several persons were punished for the abduction of Morgan : but the murderers were sheltered by Masonic Lodges, and rescued from justice."
p. 229 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
In 1848 some of the details of Captain Morgan's murder were disclosed by a deathbed confession by one of the murderers. Years later, in 1875, more details were provided by the publication of two letters by a man, a Mr. Thurlow Weed, who had particulars related to him by one of the murderers. When all of the murderers were dead the facts were made public.
"The story of the murder of William Morgan for the crime of violating Masonic secrecy has long been a well known historical fact ; but in August, 1875, the full particulars were brought to light by the publication of two letters from the Venerable Thurlow Weed. The facts were as follows :
{the preceding was quoted from Gargano, Irish and English Freemasons, p. 73} p. 229 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
{the preceding was quoted from Gargano, Irish and English Freemasons, p. 73}
It appears that what was published of Captain Morgan's book represented only a portion of Morgan's entire exposure writing project.
" In the year 1826, Morgan, who had passed through all the degrees of Masonry and held a very high position in the Order, conceived the idea of publishing a book disclosing all the secrets of the sect. ...
Mr. Weed was living at that time in the town of Rochester, New York, and Morgan requested him to publish the projected book. Mr. Weed declined, and Morgan went to the adjoining town of Batavia, where he arranged with another person for the publication.
"He had written a portion of the book, and was engaged in completing it when he was arrested on a false charge of larceny, on the 10th Sept., and conveyed to the jail of Ontario county. The sheriff and officers of this prison were Masons. His house was searched, and his manuscripts were seized and destroyed. p. 230 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933 {Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, p. 33}
"He had written a portion of the book, and was engaged in completing it when he was arrested on a false charge of larceny, on the 10th Sept., and conveyed to the jail of Ontario county. The sheriff and officers of this prison were Masons. His house was searched, and his manuscripts were seized and destroyed.
p. 230 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
{Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, p. 33}
The violation of William Morgan's Constitutional rights by officers of the "law" cannot be attributed incidentally to their Masonic affiliation. The oaths which men swear to obstruct and pervert justice in the Masonic institution became the focus of William Morgan's expose. The criminal oaths taken by officers of the law were directed toward Morgan's violation. Allegiance, not to the Constitution of the United States, not to a publicly sworn oath to uphold the "law," but allegiance/obedience to a higher Masonic authority proved itself fundamental to the Masonic institution.
The violation of William Morgan further involved conspirators kidnapping Morgan upon precipitating his release.
" On the evening of the 12th Sept, he was discharged by the interference of some of the conspirators, and, as he passed out of the door of the jail, was seized by them, taken a short distance, and then forcibly put into a carriage. He was carried, in the course of that night, on to the ridge-road about two miles beyond the village of Rochester. p. 230 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933 {Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, p. 33}
" On the evening of the 12th Sept, he was discharged by the interference of some of the conspirators, and, as he passed out of the door of the jail, was seized by them, taken a short distance, and then forcibly put into a carriage. He was carried, in the course of that night, on to the ridge-road about two miles beyond the village of Rochester.
The "sentiment" "death to all traitors" was expressed at an "Encampment of Knight Templars" by "the chaplain" at the gathering. That these men were traitors to the principles of the U.S. Constitution was evident and was aided by "an order from the Grand Master." While some details were related in 1848 when one of the murderers laid dying, an evidently more complete accounting of the murderers' actions was subsequently given.
These were Whitney, a stonemason; Chubbuch, a farmer; Farside, a butcher; and Howard, a bookbinder. 'They were all' says Mr. Weed, 'men of correct habits and good character, and all, I doubt not, were moved by an enthusiastic but most misguided sense of duty'. King told them that the had an order from the Grand Master, the execution of which required their assistance, and they replied that they would obey it. The five murderers were then driven in a carriage to the fort where Morgan was confined. It was just midnight. They told the doomed man that his friends had completed their arrangements for his removal to Canada, where his life would be safe. ... p. 231 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933 {Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, p. 33}
These were Whitney, a stonemason; Chubbuch, a farmer; Farside, a butcher; and Howard, a bookbinder. 'They were all' says Mr. Weed, 'men of correct habits and good character, and all, I doubt not, were moved by an enthusiastic but most misguided sense of duty'. King told them that the had an order from the Grand Master, the execution of which required their assistance, and they replied that they would obey it. The five murderers were then driven in a carriage to the fort where Morgan was confined. It was just midnight. They told the doomed man that his friends had completed their arrangements for his removal to Canada, where his life would be safe. ...
p. 231 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
Morgan was then taken away and soon murdered.
... it is only now, when all the criminals are dead, that he makes the fact public. The body of Morgan was found a year afterwards, identified by his wife and friends, and buried; and although the Masons tried to dispute the identification, their efforts were futile. None of the murderers was ever brought to justice." {Blanchard, Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, p. 33} p. 232 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
... it is only now, when all the criminals are dead, that he makes the fact public. The body of Morgan was found a year afterwards, identified by his wife and friends, and buried; and although the Masons tried to dispute the identification, their efforts were futile. None of the murderers was ever brought to justice."
p. 232 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
Men who were otherwise "men of correct habits and good character" had compromised themselves with the oaths of Freemasonry. Men of good civic reputation were used to murder Captain William Morgan. The good appearances of the murderers in the community facilitated the cover-up which the members of the Masonic lodges engaged in. Appearances of good character concealed evil deeds. Blasphemous oaths taken in defiance of Biblical and Constitutional precepts form the basis of Masonic "duty."
Complicitous Masonic law enforcement officials trashed their publicly sworn duty taken to uphold and defend the Constitution, not incidentally, but in conformance with the criminal oaths they had taken. The murderers themselves acted in furthering a Constitutionally subversive organization which was not only operating in contravention to the Constitution, but which was configured to usurp it in official offices.
The kidnapping and murder of Captain William Morgan certified the substance of the criminal oaths which he revealed to the public. Following investigations by New York, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania legislatures revealed that the Masonic Menace had achieved truly formidable proportions. The investigations revealed a criminal empire operating in opposition to the U.S. Constitution with personnel overlapping with that of officials in the U.S. government.
The roots of an evil empire exported from Europe had entrenched itself on American soil.
Who are the "godfathers" of Freemasonry ? Specifically, what is the core principle of Illuminism which has spawned an operative plan to establish an overt occult ruler-ship in America and for the world ? What are the roots of the occult Evil Empire ?
Index
Chapter 4
