# America's Subversion The Enemy Within: chapter 1

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/america_subversion/america_subversion01.htm

CHAPTER 1
Intrigue
The Washington Post had, indeed, obtained praise in Baden Baden, Germany in 1991 by David Rockefeller speaking to an international group of insiders known as the Bilderbergers. It is with great irony that America should learn that the very organ of democracy which had publicly protected Constitutional freedoms and process by speaking with a bold voice, was praised not for it's public voice but for it's silence.
"We are grateful to The Washington Post, The New York Times, Time Magazine and other great publications whose directors have attended our meetings and respected their promises of discretion for almost forty years."
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity during those years. But, the world is now more sophisticated and prepared to march towards a world government. The supranational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers is surely preferable to the national auto-determination practiced in past centuries." As quoted on p.13 from: Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by: Police Against The New World Order, 1992
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity during those years. But, the world is now more sophisticated and prepared to march towards a world government. The supranational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers is surely preferable to the national auto-determination practiced in past centuries."
As quoted on p.13 from: Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by:
Police Against The New World Order, 1992
The "bright lights" of the press have been focused elsewhere, concealing in relative darkness a "plan for the world" for a "world government," a particular form of world government in which "an intellectual elite" obtain "supranational sovereignty."
"Promises of discretion" on the part of news enterprises have comprised a conspiracy of silence.
The "plan" for such a world government has required co-operation extending beyond that of the implicated press, reaching into seats of political and financial power, national and international.
Why is it that the "plan" was described by David Rockefeller as "impossible to develop" if the press would have 'subjected' it "to the "bright lights of publicity" during those years" ?
What are the aims of said "intellectual elite" ?
What agendas do they represent which the public would have rendered "impossible" to achieve had it been duly informed ?
Why the secrecy in a Constitutional democracy ?
In what ways has the public been prepared to "march towards a world government" in which an "intellectual elite" hold the reigns of sovereignty ?
Although a particular forty year period was referred to by David Rockefeller when praising prominent directors of the media for their collusion of silence in connection with matters related to their attendance in meetings of the "Bilderberger" group, the plan for world ruler-ship by an "intellectual elite" itself is by no means new. Nor is it new that much of the media has been influenced to conceal organized behind-the-scenes powers inimical to Constitutional process of law, fundamental human rights and justice.
About fifty years after America's Constitutional establishment, a New York State Senate Committee found that ...
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of .... influence, or has been smitten with the rod of ... {it's} power." {footnote 66} --- 1829. p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door: Church, State and Freemasonry in America, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 {Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, footnote 66: p. 11}
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of .... influence, or has been smitten with the rod of ... {it's} power." {footnote 66}
--- 1829.
p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door: Church, State and Freemasonry in America,
Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
{Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, footnote 66: p. 11}
Making reference to the same organization operating in secret, subverting the press and the U.S. Constitution, a Joint Committee of the State of Massachusetts legislature discovered
"a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy ..." a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," a "political evil." {footnote 71},{footnote 72} --- 1834. p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Church, State and Freemasonry in America, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994, {Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834; footnote 71: pp. 14-21; footnote 72: p. 11} House of Representatives Committee of the State of Pennsylvania hearings confirmed findings of the other two legislatures in --- 1836. {footnote 73} pps. 35, 36 Behind the Lodge Door, Church, State and Freemasonry in America, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 footnote 73: Testimony Taken by the Committee of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives To Investigate the Evils of Freemasonry, Read in the House of Representatives June 13, 1836, Theodore Finn, Harrisburg, 1836, p. 15.
"a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy ..." a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," a "political evil."
{footnote 71},{footnote 72}
--- 1834.
p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Church, State and Freemasonry in America,
Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994, {Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834; footnote 71: pp. 14-21; footnote 72: p. 11}
House of Representatives Committee of the State of Pennsylvania hearings confirmed findings of the other two legislatures in
--- 1836. {footnote 73}
pps. 35, 36 Behind the Lodge Door, Church, State and Freemasonry in America,
footnote 73: Testimony Taken by the Committee of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives To Investigate the Evils of Freemasonry, Read in the House of Representatives June 13, 1836, Theodore Finn, Harrisburg, 1836, p. 15.
The resolve to circumvent the U.S. Constitution and due process in order to bring about a world government having supranational sovereignty by a particular "elite" is exemplified in a declaration made just a few years into the post WWII era..
"As banker James Warburg, the son of Council on Foreign Relations' founder Paul Warburg, confidently told the United States Senate on February 17, 1950:
"We shall have world government whether or not we like it. The only question is, whether world government will be achieved by conquest or consent." {footnote} p.174 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Descent into Slavery, Des Griffin, Emmissary Publications, Clackamas, Oregon, 1980, 1991, p. 214} ALSO: {footnote} EnRoute to Global Occupation, p. 33 {footnote: Gary Allen, The Rockefeller File (Seal Beach, CA: '76 Press, 1976), p. 77}
"We shall have world government whether or not we like it. The only question is, whether world government will be achieved by conquest or consent." {footnote}
p.174 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: Descent into Slavery, Des Griffin, Emmissary Publications, Clackamas, Oregon, 1980, 1991, p. 214}
ALSO: {footnote} EnRoute to Global Occupation, p. 33
{footnote: Gary Allen, The Rockefeller File (Seal Beach, CA: '76 Press, 1976), p. 77}
The press, "silent as the grave," "self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom," has served more as a stage than as a platform for vigilance. The media's pursuit of the "Watergate" case, while a far greater treachery was concurrently being concealed, has engendered a false sense of security or confidence in America's media institution.
Subversion of the major media represents subversion of the First Amendment itself. The constellation of groups working behind the scenes to achieve that which has been acknowledged to be achievable only through secrecy has, never-the-less, a public face.
"When we see the smiling faces of international statesmen and religious leaders on the television or in the newspapers it is difficult to imagine that behind the diplomatic facade exists a very different world; a world a secret societies and occult fraternities peopled by shadowy figures who have often been obsessed with the pursuit of power. Since the days of the Pharaohs in ancient Egypt the occult has entangled the black arts of espionage, subversion and revolution in its web. Today the occult conspiracy still affects politics, although there are few who are aware of its influence even though those who control it are often well known faces and household names." p. viii, Preface The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
"When we see the smiling faces of international statesmen and religious leaders on the television or in the newspapers it is difficult to imagine that behind the diplomatic facade exists a very different world; a world a secret societies and occult fraternities peopled by shadowy figures who have often been obsessed with the pursuit of power.
Since the days of the Pharaohs in ancient Egypt the occult has entangled the black arts of espionage, subversion and revolution in its web. Today the occult conspiracy still affects politics, although there are few who are aware of its influence even though those who control it are often well known faces and household names."
p. viii, Preface The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
The "Plan" was specifically hatched on another Continent while America was being born as a Constitutional democracy, was discussed in writing in Europe among fellow conspirators, and provided for an incredible system of espionage. It would achieve it's goals by political, religious, civic and moral subversion. It would build a New World Order upon ashes left in the wake of world wars and revolution which it itself would instigate, facilitate, or precipitate. It would create the very chaotic conditions needed to fulfill the motto, "Order, out of chaos."
At the core of that "intellectual elite" reside individuals who hold that they are gods. Their modus operandi is subversion, of organizations and of individuals. Written plans of specific subversions fell into the hands of one of it's targeted enemies, the Catholic Church, when a bolt of lightening struck a courier on horseback and an official investigation followed. Yet, their most treacherous methods remained concealed from public scrutiny, leaving potential targets vulnerable to methods evidently known only to an inner circle of conspirators.
As knowledge of occult methods of victimization and subversion have surfaced to the public, they have often been obfuscated, while adept practitioners of "black arts of espionage" have operated in the realms of secret societies, been co-opted by governments into secret services, or put away in asylums for publicly persisting in the belief of powers whose recognition has been officially suppressed in the public domain. Recently, however, attempts have been renewed by advocates of occult, psychic methods to promote them widely in the public domain for advancing private purposes, and not serving simply "government" purposes.
This seems a better alternative than allowing psychic abilities to be monopolized by cults or co-opted by competing governments.
Psi is too important to become the exclusive property of governments, either at home or abroad, who might become interested in exploiting these abilities for their own purposes. p. 8 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
Psi is too important to become the exclusive property of governments, either at home or abroad, who might become interested in exploiting these abilities for their own purposes.
p. 8 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
The media which has colluded in concealing the plan for a world government in the hands of an elite which has had at it's disposal occult, black arts and means of subversion, has for many years played a decisive role in concealing such means of subversion.
Psychic abilities are being developed in government-sponsored research programs in both the United States and the Soviet Union. Yet, despite decades of research that has produced better and better results, most people have been led to believe that psychic abilities and experiences simply do not exist, or at least are beyond their understanding.
The public at large has been greatly misinformed about psychic functioning, or psi --- films, television, and the news media have presented much distorted and misleading information about this area.
Meanwhile, the governments of the United States and the U.S.S.R. have quietly spent millions in a long-term, careful, and successful effort to develop ever more proficient and potentially useful psychic abilities.
Information about the findings of this research should be easily available to everyone. But reliable information has often been hard to find, or to separate from the exaggerated claims of cultists, the confusing allegations of critics, and the distortions of the mass media. p. 4 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
Information about the findings of this research should be easily available to everyone. But reliable information has often been hard to find, or to separate from the exaggerated claims of cultists, the confusing allegations of critics, and the distortions of the mass media.
p. 4 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
The charade would hardly be complete without having public consent for locking up persons under the pretense of insanity who persisted in particular beliefs in matters which, under the auspices of government, were covered-up.
It is still the case that if you told most psychiatrists that you were under psychic attack, or could read the mind of another person, or that someone else could read yours, they would consider such beliefs a clear indication of mental illness, because the same sorts of things are experienced by people who really are mentally ill and suffering from paranoid delusions. Any of those statements can get you into serious trouble, if made to the wrong person. By "serious trouble," we mean being thought to be in serious need of extensive psychiatric treatment. Continued persistence in these beliefs in spite of treatment could lead to commitment to a mental institution, and being given psychotrophic drugs. p. 240 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
It is still the case that if you told most psychiatrists that you were under psychic attack, or could read the mind of another person, or that someone else could read yours, they would consider such beliefs a clear indication of mental illness, because the same sorts of things are experienced by people who really are mentally ill and suffering from paranoid delusions.
Any of those statements can get you into serious trouble, if made to the wrong person. By "serious trouble," we mean being thought to be in serious need of extensive psychiatric treatment. Continued persistence in these beliefs in spite of treatment could lead to commitment to a mental institution, and being given psychotrophic drugs.
p. 240 The Mind Race: Understanding and Using Psychic Abilities, Russell Targ & Keith Harary, 1984
It is interesting that the authors of the book, The Mind Race, published in 1984, which documents, teaches and promotes the public acquisition of psychic powers includes the foregoing warning at it's end. It is not an unusual practice for books teaching psychic methods to withhold such warnings until the end, whereby the reader might plunge into practicing dangerous techniques taught in the main body of the work, having or being given the mistaken idea that practicing psychic techniques is relatively safe.
The psychic and occult methods of subversion and victimization which have been concealed from the public at large but which have been expanding in a counter-culture environment are increasingly being mass marketed to the public in often re-packaged forms, and the methods formerly available principally to an "elite" are proliferating as we approach a new millennium and the astrological "Age of Aquarius."
The Elite
Why the term "intellectual" elite ? The source of their inspiration or intellect is identifiable in their own writings and manifest in their work product. The purpose of this book is to help persons to be aware of their methods and source of inspiration "so that you can successfully resist all the devil's craftiness." - Ephesians 6: 11, Phillips Modern English, Eight Translation.
The "intellectual elite" have worked behind the scenes in an occult,
"conspiracy conceived, organized, and activated by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil ..." p. foreword - 6, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"conspiracy conceived, organized, and activated by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil ..."
p. foreword - 6, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
A facilitating network was formed,
"to monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers." p. foreword - 5, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"to monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers."
p. foreword - 5, by publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
The founder of the 'mind-control' network boasted of his various methods of subversion,
"By this plan we shall direct all mankind. In this manner, and by the simplest means, we shall set all in motion and in flames. The occupations must be so allotted and contrived, that we may, in secret, influence all political transactions." p. 84 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"By this plan we shall direct all mankind. In this manner, and by the simplest means, we shall set all in motion and in flames. The occupations must be so allotted and contrived, that we may, in secret, influence all political transactions."
p. 84 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
It should be stressed that the impact of the methods exerted "in secret" was such that it was only five decades later that three American State legislatures certified the influence of ...
"a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy ..." a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," a "political evil." {footnote 71},{footnote 72} --- 1834. p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 9-10. footnote 71: pp. 14-21; footnote 72: p. 11
"a distinct Independent Government within our own Government, and beyond the control of the laws of the land by means of its secrecy ..." a "moral evil," a "pecuniary evil," a "political evil." {footnote 71},{footnote 72}
p. 35 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
Investigation Into Freemasonry by a Joint Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts House of Representatives, March, 1834, pp. 9-10.
footnote 71: pp. 14-21; footnote 72: p. 11
Speaking of that influence and power, upon the media, by the occult secret-society organization responsible for the "distinct Independent Government,"
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of .... {it's} influence, or has been smitten with the rod of ... {it's} power." {footnote 66} --- 1829. p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994 Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14 footnote 66: p. 11
"The public press, that mighty engine for good or for evil, has been, with a few honorable exceptions, silent as the grave. This self-proclaimed sentinel of freedom, has felt the force of .... {it's} influence, or has been smitten with the rod of ... {it's} power." {footnote 66}
p. 34 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 ,1989, 1994
Report Of A Committee To The New York Senate, Together With Extracts From Other Authentic Documents Illustrating The Character And Principles Of Free Masonry, published by request, and under the direction of several citizens of New Haven, Connecticut, printed by Hezekiah Howe, 1829, pp. 13-14
footnote 66: p. 11
The public press impacted behind the scenes was congratulated by conspirators on German soil, from which soil a plan for world government took form and is now drawing toward an intended climax.
"We are grateful to ... great publications whose directors have attended our meetings and respected their promises of discretion ...."
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity ..." --- 1991 As quoted on p.13 from Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by: Police Against The New World Order, 1992
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity ..."
--- 1991 As quoted on p.13 from Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by: Police Against The New World Order, 1992
Persons who have documented the plan or conspiracy for an elitist world government are often held in derision by the press and portrayed as "theorists." That's an interesting characterization considering that the conspirators have been spilling their own beans, as the documentation will show. One doesn't have to rely on the characterizations of defectors when an active conspirator having prominent station in the international community unequivocally expresses gratitude to the press for it's complicity in a conspiracy to empower a one-world government in the hands of an "intellectual elite," albeit his works were spoken under the assumption of "discretion."
The United States of America is one of many nations which have been targeted for subversion. How can America have a First Amendment which is not subverted, when the press itself has been subverted in having "respected their promises of discretion" of silence and diversion in complicity with an undemocratic process of secretly empowering an Unconstitutional government ?
The mind-set of the "intellectual elite" in question is derived from occult teachings and practices, which accounts for the enunciated aims at the very outset of the modern conspiracy to abolish Christianity. The "plan" is for a one-world government by an occult elite, and but for a one-world religion. Theirs. While the written and proven aim of said conspiracy has further been to subvert and politically dis-establish traditional religions and their influence, it is by means of secret associations that a behind-the-scenes religion has been establishing itself in America with great political power, subverting the Constitutional separation of church and state. It's very religious symbols have been incorporated into America's emblems, even upon U.S. currency.
The agenda of the occult religion is not to insure freedom of religion, but to bring an end to Christianity and to convert fellow Americans to an occult form of worship by subtle and deceptive means, or by coercion. The "work" of the occult religion is, among other things, to destroy the Constitutional guarantee of freedom of worship of the First Amendment. The occult religious secret society has been certified by State legislature investigations to have subverted the "free press," also guaranteed by the same Amendment.
The subversion of the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution which provides for a free press represents the tip of a treacherous iceberg whose preponderant mass moves unseen below the surface. Examine the description of that menacing iceberg in the words of the conspirators themselves. It is an iceberg with a mission. Sadly, there may be Americans who still believe that Constitutional guarantees are unsinkable.
Secrecy has been of the essence in developing the political and financial power base for the "plan," and the issue of fundamental principles answers the question of why "it would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity ..."
An associate conspirator of the one-world government plan's founder pondered the tactics of recruitment by the "Order" founded in Germany, which Order would set in motion the conspiracy and provide for it's continuance,
"An Order ... which... Should I mention our fundamental principles (even after all the pains I have been at to mitigate them) so unquestionably dangerous to the world, who would remain? " p. 124 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"An Order ... which... Should I mention our fundamental principles (even after all the pains I have been at to mitigate them) so unquestionably dangerous to the world, who would remain? "
p. 124 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
Strata of teachings, layers of misrepresentations, have been conceived with the understanding that men can best be converted or corrupted step by step, by degree. However, even among those who are attracted or recruited with outward, exoteric teachings or organizational representations are those who do not "remain" but who abandon or defect when they learn of clearly evident 'evils' promoted at advanced levels or learn of the actual organizational nature as represented by hidden, esoteric teachings which are found at the very core, the very center and foundation of the organization.
In the words of a conspirator, the "fundamental principles ... so unquestionably dangerous to the world" represented in the "plan" can rightfully be seen as an evil menace when examined in detail, based on the testimony of active and former conspirators as well as the testimony of investigative agencies such as three American State legislatures who have engaged in detailed investigations of the primary facilitating organization.
The documentation in this book reveals that among those in greatest peril in the conspiracy are those who are the participants, but that the conspirators will not rest until everyone is compromised and initiated into the occult empire. Examine the evidence to be alerted to real dangers and be equipped to defend your human, God-given rights against the expanding occult empire which often presents itself under another name.
"The great strength of our Order lies in its concealment; let it never appear in any place in its own name, but always covered by another name, and another occupation. ...
"In like manner we must try to obtain an influence in the military academies (this may be of mighty consequence) the printing-houses, booksellers shops, chapters, and in short in all offices which have any effect, either in forming, or in managing, or even in directing the mind of man ... " p. 112 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"In like manner we must try to obtain an influence in the military academies (this may be of mighty consequence) the printing-houses, booksellers shops, chapters, and in short in all offices which have any effect, either in forming, or in managing, or even in directing the mind of man ... "
p. 112 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
The most potent methods of the occult conspiracy had not been revealed to the public during the initial investigations into the conspiracy, and have by no means been limited to the weight of influence of a subverted media in "forming, or in managing, or even in directing the mind of man." The methods have unfortunately found certified success in subverting America's Constitutional government by subverting individuals, organizations and institutions.
Examine the evidence and testimony for yourself in the context of critical analysis. Learn against what methods one needs to be alerted to or to defend against according to the admissions of those who promote psychic "warfare" and learn what sort of methods of "self-defense" render one a victim.
Index
Chapter 2
