# America's Subversion The Enemy Within: Chapter 10

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/america_subversion/america_subversion10.htm

Chapter 10
America's Alienation
The security of America's borders has been a hotly contested political issue. Illegal aliens "walking in" across substantially unprotected borders en masse for years has caused great concerns that America is slowly becoming an Alien Nation.
Examine the words of a foreign agent published in 1979:
"They are all around you, and will soon become more apparent as the world recognizes the need for rapidly stepping up that process [walking-in] in preparation for the evil days of the next decade ... They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long, as an essential step in recognizing the work that will have to be done rapidly and well." {original author's rectangular brackets [walking-in]}
"They are all around you, and will soon become more apparent as the world recognizes the need for rapidly stepping up that process [walking-in] in preparation for the evil days of the next decade ... They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long, as an essential step in recognizing the work that will have to be done rapidly and well."
{original author's rectangular brackets [walking-in]}
Do those words make the Governor of California feel uneasy ? They should. The sinister agent was writing about the process of walking-in. But the issue was not the immigration of "illegal aliens" along America's southern border. The process of walking-in referred to pertains to the New Age movement. It pertains to Group Work of New Age "Brotherhoods." It pertains to the occult "Great Work" of incarnating discarnate Luciferian spirits through human bodies (Masonic Hierarchy).
The above quotation was written through Ruth Montgomery (Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979, p. 121, 122) by New Age spirit guides and comports with the agenda expressed by New Age spirit guides Asher, Alder, and Lord Maitreya.
The emerging New Age lingo has employed the expression "Walk-ins."
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} ... that those entering the bodies of willing American adults have begun using the term "Walk-in" only within the past few years.... "They work in secrecy ..." ... "Many of them will not need to spend lifetime after lifetime going from one body to another, because if they are successful in one or more such cycles they will be able to go and come as the exalted ones." Most Walk-ins zealously guard the secret of their altered identity, because people tend to fear what they consider supernatural. p. 47 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:}
... that those entering the bodies of willing American adults have begun using the term "Walk-in" only within the past few years....
"They work in secrecy ..."
...
"Many of them will not need to spend lifetime after lifetime going from one body to another, because if they are successful in one or more such cycles they will be able to go and come as the exalted ones."
Most Walk-ins zealously guard the secret of their altered identity, because people tend to fear what they consider supernatural.
p. 47 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come,
Ruth Montgomery, 1979
The "Great Work" of Freemasonry, Co-Masonry, witchcraft, spiritualism, the New Age movement as such has had a significant impact upon American society, as well as internationally. The gradual "great work" of the destruction, casting aside, or sloughing off of the human mind and replacing it with the consciousness of a New Age discarnate spirit has been represented by several paths.
Ruth Montgomery who has channeled "automatic writing" from her New Age spirit guides purported in 1979 that the achievements of discarnate entities in taking over the bodies of human beings has been extensive.
There are Walk-ins on this planet. Tens of thousands of them. ... A Walk-in is a high-minded entity who is permitted to take over the body of another human being who wishes to depart. ... As they will tell you, a Walk-in is a highly evolved entity who, always with permission, enters the body of a human who wishes to check out before completing the tasks he has begun. p. 14 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
There are Walk-ins on this planet. Tens of thousands of them. ...
A Walk-in is a high-minded entity who is permitted to take over the body of another human being who wishes to depart.
As they will tell you, a Walk-in is a highly evolved entity who, always with permission, enters the body of a human who wishes to check out before completing the tasks he has begun.
p. 14 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The spirit guide "Alder" disclosed that "World Initiation" is "drawing near," and asserted that "Pain" and "pressure" would lead "naturally, to ... Initiation." Thus, when Ruth Montgomery related that "Walk-ins" are making themselves available to take over the bodies of humans who wish to "depart" or "check out", the significance of the "Pain" and "pressure" leading to Initiation or impression by the Luciferian Hierarchy is quite apparent.
The "work of Walk-ins" is to lead others to seek inner "intuition," while promoting the psychic impression of thoughts upon a person who thinks he or she is contacting one's "inner self."
The work of Walk-ins is at the mental level, inspiring others to seek inner awareness and rely on their intuition. With their own intuitive knowledge they recognize what sages have been teaching for thousands of years: There is no death. There are no miracles, but simply the proper utilization of life energies that function according to cosmic law. p. 48 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The work of Walk-ins is at the mental level, inspiring others to seek inner awareness and rely on their intuition.
With their own intuitive knowledge they recognize what sages have been teaching for thousands of years: There is no death. There are no miracles, but simply the proper utilization of life energies that function according to cosmic law.
p. 48 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The "work" of the "Walk-ins" is aligned with the deceptions incorporated in the structure and devices of Freemasonry, that of deliberate misrepresentations. The nefarious doctrine of karma, a formula for evil, presided over by the "Saturnian spirit, Satan," is represented as "universal" or "cosmic" law. The "seething energies of Lucifer" are represented as cosmic forces which can be wielded by humans.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} "To speak of disaster in the physical sense is therefore of minor import. The soul is indestructible, since it is a part of the Creator and of Creation itself." p. 70 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"To speak of disaster in the physical sense is therefore of minor import. The soul is indestructible, since it is a part of the Creator and of Creation itself."
p. 70 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The lie of the serpent, used as a vehicle by Lucifer, has been perpetuated in mystery religion since Babylon and Egypt, and has spread throughout the world. "Intuitive knowledge" impressed upon the subject by discarnate New Age entities inspires some men or women to believe that "there is no death."
The lie deceives men and women into thinking that they can "check out" into the spirit realm. Such lies can expedite the "quest" by discarnate Luciferian entities to take over the "human form." New Age "Brotherhoods" are at work in the occult "Great Work" of Freemasonry and witchcraft.
... my Guides verified, that five of the sixty Serving Brotherhoods are composed entirely of Walk-ins ... and that one of their major functions is to assist those who are entering directly into adult bodies ... for a Walk-in to take over human form. p. 96 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
... my Guides verified, that five of the sixty Serving Brotherhoods are composed entirely of Walk-ins ... and that one of their major functions is to assist those who are entering directly into adult bodies ... for a Walk-in to take over human form.
p. 96 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The objective is "for a Walk-in to take over human form." A New Age method to facilitate that objective is the "work of Walk-ins ... at the mental level, inspiring others to seek inner awareness and rely on their intuition."
I asked how this could be accomplished, and she {an alleged Walk-in} replied: "First, look toward your immediate goal and know that you will reach it. When it is time to choose between one direction or another, simply pause for a moment, blank your mind, and listen to your intuition. Don't try to reason with logic. Your own inner sense will tell you which choice to make. If it is any more meaningful, ask for guidance from whatever source is most comfortable for you, whether divine inspiration, prayer, or help from discarnates.. Try being in the Flow as often as you think of it." p. 154 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
I asked how this could be accomplished, and she {an alleged Walk-in} replied:
"First, look toward your immediate goal and know that you will reach it. When it is time to choose between one direction or another, simply pause for a moment, blank your mind, and listen to your intuition. Don't try to reason with logic. Your own inner sense will tell you which choice to make. If it is any more meaningful, ask for guidance from whatever source is most comfortable for you, whether divine inspiration, prayer, or help from discarnates.. Try being in the Flow as often as you think of it."
p. 154 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The method of blanking one's mind is a New Age, occult technique, and whether one asks help from "discarnates" or "divine inspiration or prayer," the method is not taught in God's Word the Bible, it is an occult method. "Being in the Flow" of Luciferian energies or influence would be like going with the Niagara Flow, heading right over the edge. The goal is "for a Walk-in to take over human form."
"Don't try to reason with logic" represents the familiar "just drive" ploy, "when it is time to choose between one direction or another" the Walk-in teaches, "simply pause for a moment, blank your mind, and listen to your intuition. Don't try to reason with logic. You own inner sense will tell you which choice to make." The objective is to have a discarnate Luciferian spirit make the decision.
The essence of New Age philosophy and teaching is deceitful, representing demon influence and inspiration as one's "inner self" which one is told to contact for wisdom. New Age Deceptions
New Age Deceptions
It is indeed remarkable that the Founding Father of deception and lies, Lucifer, or Satan, presides over the New Age movement in which New Age techniques are represented as a means to create a world without deception. Telepathy is the agency through which such a world is supposed to be made possible. Yet, the "whole story of telepathic interplay" was explained by New Age leader Alice Bailey as representing the "growth of that oligarchy."
Telepathy is the means by which a point of contact with Lucifer-consciousness and acute Hierarchical impression is achieved. The individual seeking telepathic powers to discern deceptions becomes subject to being taken over, step by step, by the very New Age discarnate entities facilitating telepathy. The no-deception or no-successful-deception ploy is one of the most outrageous deceptions.
For some it will be a rocky road, because if others can read our thoughts it will be impossible to lie or cheat without discovery. No one will be able to keep a secret and no crimes will go unsolved. ... Why have satellites to spy on another's doings when it is possible to read his mind at a distance and forestall his evil intents ? p. 30 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
For some it will be a rocky road, because if others can read our thoughts it will be impossible to lie or cheat without discovery. No one will be able to keep a secret and no crimes will go unsolved.
Why have satellites to spy on another's doings when it is possible to read his mind at a distance and forestall his evil intents ?
p. 30 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Fundamentally, Lucifer and his associated discarnate spirits are the ones with the "evil intents" whose agenda people need to pre-empt in their lives. Satan, the demons, and Karma Clause agents are perpetrating terrible crimes upon the human family, and the nature of those crimes need to be solved and exposed. The lies and deceptions need to be discerned as such.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} I had learned from ... {a Walk-in} that the five Brotherhoods who work directly with Walk-ins employ something called mind shield to protect the newcomers from discovery while they go about their tasks. Since he did not elaborate, I turned to the Guides for explanation, and they wrote: "Mind shield is a protective cloak to guard one's thoughts from too-wide dissemination. People who are aware of mental telepathy often use it while playing bridge or poker, dropping a mental curtain so that they are not sending forth to their opponents images of the high cards they hold in their hands. In a similar manner, Brotherhoods shield the identity of Walk-ins and other high-minded members from the curious public." p. 102 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
I had learned from ... {a Walk-in} that the five Brotherhoods who work directly with Walk-ins employ something called mind shield to protect the newcomers from discovery while they go about their tasks. Since he did not elaborate, I turned to the Guides for explanation, and they wrote: "Mind shield is a protective cloak to guard one's thoughts from too-wide dissemination.
People who are aware of mental telepathy often use it while playing bridge or poker, dropping a mental curtain so that they are not sending forth to their opponents images of the high cards they hold in their hands. In a similar manner, Brotherhoods shield the identity of Walk-ins and other high-minded members from the curious public."
p. 102 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Seeing that telepathy is performed through the agency of New Age spirits, the control which they are able to exercise in withholding "dissemination" of thoughts or impression of thoughts to others is called "mind shield."
To conceal their sinister activity in preparing persons as material which the discarnates employ, Luciferian "Walk-ins" shield their work from many general telepaths, according to what was communicated by Ruth Montgomery.
A spirit guide further declared that:
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "In the years ahead they will be proclaiming this fact to others, and as the process of walking-in is speeded up, there will be less reason to maintain secrecy about their status." p. 109 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:}
"In the years ahead they will be proclaiming this fact to others, and as the process of walking-in is speeded up, there will be less reason to maintain secrecy about their status."
p. 109 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
According to the statements of spirit guides themselves it is evident that what has been taking place is the concealment of their real activities from the telepathic community in general. For that matter, telepathic players have the opportunity to prevent other so-called "mind-readers" from reading their minds in even simple matters such as playing cards. That, however, provides obvious fertile ground for escalation in higher levels of measures and counter-measures, sucking persons more deeply into the vortex of occult/psychic impression.
The whole idea of telepathy is for discarnate spirits to "meld" with the minds of humans and eventually take them over.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} "To speak of disaster in the physical sense is therefore of minor import. The soul is indestructible, since it is a part of the Creator and of Creation itself." ... Referring to the coming holocaust, the Guides said it will be of such proportions that some now living will wish to withdraw from their physical bodies beforehand, rather than face the turmoil. In that event, they will be permitted to do so without incurring bad karma, because Walk-ins will volunteer to take over their bodies and ease the path for others who wish to remain. These future Walk-ins are now said to be in the same spirit state as the Guides, but after entering adult physical bodies they will be able to communicate more normally with us earthlings than discarnates can. I asked the Guides to explain the method used by spirits to teach those of us in physical body, and they replied: "We are attuned through something akin to thought waves, although of higher frequency ... so that we are in instant rapport with them. As they attune themselves to us through the so-called alpha state, we are able to trigger a response somewhat like a plane touching down to earth, landing, after soaring through the stratosphere. As we touch down, so to speak, we establish contact and meld with the minds of those with whom we are attuned. "In this way, we project pictures or symbols into their wavelength, and they reproject them as their own, unless they realize what is transpiring, as you do with the automatic writing. Were you not actively aware of this communication, we would be able to give you symbols or thought patterns, and as your personal radar reacted with them you would assume that they were your own ideas and impressions, rather than having been passed along to you from this side.... Were mankind to realize the full potential, we would be able to influence all human beings in this fashion; yet many are poor receivers, and so unaware of anything beyond their own plane that it is like the locks in some dams, which will not permit fish to rise to the higher level and go upstream to spawn." p. 72 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Referring to the coming holocaust, the Guides said it will be of such proportions that some now living will wish to withdraw from their physical bodies beforehand, rather than face the turmoil. In that event, they will be permitted to do so without incurring bad karma, because Walk-ins will volunteer to take over their bodies and ease the path for others who wish to remain.
These future Walk-ins are now said to be in the same spirit state as the Guides, but after entering adult physical bodies they will be able to communicate more normally with us earthlings than discarnates can. I asked the Guides to explain the method used by spirits to teach those of us in physical body, and they replied:
"We are attuned through something akin to thought waves, although of higher frequency ... so that we are in instant rapport with them. As they attune themselves to us through the so-called alpha state, we are able to trigger a response somewhat like a plane touching down to earth, landing, after soaring through the stratosphere. As we touch down, so to speak, we establish contact and meld with the minds of those with whom we are attuned. "In this way, we project pictures or symbols into their wavelength, and they reproject them as their own, unless they realize what is transpiring, as you do with the automatic writing. Were you not actively aware of this communication, we would be able to give you symbols or thought patterns, and as your personal radar reacted with them you would assume that they were your own ideas and impressions, rather than having been passed along to you from this side.... Were mankind to realize the full potential, we would be able to influence all human beings in this fashion; yet many are poor receivers, and so unaware of anything beyond their own plane that it is like the locks in some dams, which will not permit fish to rise to the higher level and go upstream to spawn."
"We are attuned through something akin to thought waves, although of higher frequency ... so that we are in instant rapport with them. As they attune themselves to us through the so-called alpha state, we are able to trigger a response somewhat like a plane touching down to earth, landing, after soaring through the stratosphere. As we touch down, so to speak, we establish contact and meld with the minds of those with whom we are attuned.
"In this way, we project pictures or symbols into their wavelength, and they reproject them as their own, unless they realize what is transpiring, as you do with the automatic writing. Were you not actively aware of this communication, we would be able to give you symbols or thought patterns, and as your personal radar reacted with them you would assume that they were your own ideas and impressions, rather than having been passed along to you from this side....
Were mankind to realize the full potential, we would be able to influence all human beings in this fashion; yet many are poor receivers, and so unaware of anything beyond their own plane that it is like the locks in some dams, which will not permit fish to rise to the higher level and go upstream to spawn."
p. 72 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Projecting thoughts into a person's brain and having them interpreted by others (evidently by "mind-readers") as originating from the subject of mental impression represents wholesale deception. Ashida Kim wrote of the practice of "masking the intent" and "projecting a false image," and indicated that spirit guides as the real teachers of the "dark arts."
Telepathy represents a spiritistic environment of deceptive, deceitful practices.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "We have lessons to learn when in flesh, and one of them is to protect the privacy of others." p. 122 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"We have lessons to learn when in flesh, and one of them is to protect the privacy of others."
p. 122 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Whose privacy is it that the New Age is protecting ? It is the privacy of the identity of the "Walk-ins" from the public, and often from the community of "mind-readers" themselves.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "Wait until that person is ready to reveal himself, for the time will not be far off when they will be accepted as valuable contributors to the community, and honored as such. Their present need is for privacy to prevent witch-hunts or crude remarks while they go about the important tasks they chose of their own free will." p. 125 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"Wait until that person is ready to reveal himself, for the time will not be far off when they will be accepted as valuable contributors to the community, and honored as such. Their present need is for privacy to prevent witch-hunts or crude remarks while they go about the important tasks they chose of their own free will."
p. 125 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The New Age agenda is to protect the privacy of core conspirators while engaging in Group Work, Karma Clause Work, of subverting the will and character of human beings, violating the privacy of their very being in sinister and evil ways.
Just as the "outer body" of Freemasonry was constructed to "shield" an "inner body," the New Age "Brotherhoods" operate similarly.
... these Serving Brotherhoods, which operate throughout the world, without realizing that within each one is an Inner (or Closed) Brotherhood ... To restate this in simple terms: Within a Serving Brotherhood, which is something like an outer cloak, there is also an Inner, or Closed, Brotherhood ..." p. 95 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
... these Serving Brotherhoods, which operate throughout the world, without realizing that within each one is an Inner (or Closed) Brotherhood
To restate this in simple terms: Within a Serving Brotherhood, which is something like an outer cloak, there is also an Inner, or Closed, Brotherhood ..."
p. 95 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The New Age spirit guides have much to conceal.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} ... I ... asked why Brotherhoods bother to have outer as well as inner members. "As a means of permitting evolving incarnates to have something to join -- a place to develop," they replied, "without initiating them into the inner secrets or esoteric teachings that would be well beyond their present level." p. 103 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
... I ... asked why Brotherhoods bother to have outer as well as inner members. "As a means of permitting evolving incarnates to have something to join -- a place to develop," they replied, "without initiating them into the inner secrets or esoteric teachings that would be well beyond their present level."
p. 103 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
(In the quoted context the term "evolving incarnates" is an evident reference to human beings which are in the process of transformation or transmutation).
Entry level persons acquiring telepathic powers may be deluded into thinking that the New Age represents a world in which deception is conquered. It is a ploy through which human beings are being conquered.
One for All and All for One
In "reincarnation" terminology, the references made in Ruth Montgomery's book, Strangers Among Us, includes that of "discarnates" and of a "Walk-in," which is a discarnate who "enters the body of a human." "Incarnates" is often used as an expression to denote human beings themselves in her book, and is contrasted in her book from "Walk-ins."
The compartmentalization of the New Age movement is not only by means of inner and outer groups of the "Brotherhoods." Discrete telepathic groups have been formed in which participants are specifically linked.
... references to Brotherhoods and Group Minds, I asked the Guides to elaborate. They replied that many Brotherhoods are already in existence, each with a Group Mind into which members can tap, and that the memberships are composed of both discarnates and incarnates, including Walk-ins. p. 31 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
... references to Brotherhoods and Group Minds, I asked the Guides to elaborate. They replied that many Brotherhoods are already in existence, each with a Group Mind into which members can tap, and that the memberships are composed of both discarnates and incarnates, including Walk-ins.
p. 31 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"Group Minds." Group Minds with an invisible nucleus. Persons on the outer fringes or outer brotherhood often do not realize that there is an "inner brotherhood" which is telepathically "shielded." The outer members of the groups are subject to impression by the "Hierarchy," but do not have access to tap into the real thoughts, the inner secrets of the (closed) nucleus of the inner Brotherhood.
Thus it is that outer members who are led to believe that they are working for the betterment of mankind are diverted from the real agenda and methods of the inner core. The Illuminati have conspired and worked for the accomplishment of three world wars and a multitude of bloody revolutions. The misery and human suffering which the occult conspiracy is responsible for is staggering. And the New Age movement claims to represent a path of relief from such suffering (which it itself is responsible for).
The "Group Mind" represents a means of preparing human beings for co-opting, partially or completely, by discarnate Luciferian spirit entities.
Among the more intriguing aspects of the New Age is the role that Brotherhoods and Group Minds are said to be playing in preparing mankind for the Aquarian Age and the wave of the future. ... Michael, as I choose to call him, belongs to the Brotherhood of the Spiral, whose membership is composed of not less than two hundred incarnates at any given time, and approximately six thousand discarnates. This particular group might also be termed the Brotherhood of the Mind, since it is dedicated to opening minds, freeing them from shackles, and bringing awareness to all members of the human race. ... Michael told me that many people living today belong to one or another of these Serving Brotherhoods, which operate throughout the world, without realizing that within each one is an Inner (or Closed) Brotherhood with its own individual Group Mind that has been growing and evolving for untold thousands of years. ... "This Mind then becomes a consensus of all the knowledge and experience of its members, each of whom can draw on it through mental telepathy." ... To restate this in simple terms: Within a Serving Brotherhood, which is something like an outer cloak, there is also an Inner, or Closed, Brotherhood, and it is these Inner Brotherhoods that have developed their own Group Minds during the thousands of years of their existence." p. 95 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Among the more intriguing aspects of the New Age is the role that Brotherhoods and Group Minds are said to be playing in preparing mankind for the Aquarian Age and the wave of the future.
Michael, as I choose to call him, belongs to the Brotherhood of the Spiral, whose membership is composed of not less than two hundred incarnates at any given time, and approximately six thousand discarnates. This particular group might also be termed the Brotherhood of the Mind, since it is dedicated to opening minds, freeing them from shackles, and bringing awareness to all members of the human race. ...
Michael told me that many people living today belong to one or another of these Serving Brotherhoods, which operate throughout the world, without realizing that within each one is an Inner (or Closed) Brotherhood with its own individual Group Mind that has been growing and evolving for untold thousands of years.
"This Mind then becomes a consensus of all the knowledge and experience of its members, each of whom can draw on it through mental telepathy." ...
To restate this in simple terms: Within a Serving Brotherhood, which is something like an outer cloak, there is also an Inner, or Closed, Brotherhood, and it is these Inner Brotherhoods that have developed their own Group Minds during the thousands of years of their existence."
"This Mind then becomes a consensus of all the knowledge and experience of its members" evidently excludes the inner Brotherhood of such so-called Group Minds which are "shielded."
The capacity for telepathic fraud is vast. It has also been revealed by a New Age spirit that discarnate spirits have the capacity to impress thoughts upon a participant leaving the impression for so-called "mind-readers" observers that the thoughts impressed originate from the subject. Telepathic practitioners themselves are subject to the ultimate form of media or information manipulation and dis-information.
The Media
The role of the media, targeted by the Illuminati Order of Adam Weishaupt, and "smitten by {Freemasonry's} influence" as revealed through State legislature investigation, has obtained a reputation as a critically controlled media, with a clandestine agenda.
David Rockefeller ... voiced his praise of the controlled U.S. media for keeping their oath not to divulge the Globalist plans to the public. Speaking to his fellow conspirators at a meeting, June 1991 in Baden Baden, Germany, of yet one more infamous World Order group, the Bilderbergers, Mr. Rockefeller said:
"We are grateful to The Washington Post, The New York Times, Time Magazine and other great publications whose directors have attended our meetings and respected their promises of discretion for almost forty years."
He went on to explain:
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity during those years. But, the world is now more sophisticated and prepared to march towards a world government. The supranational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers is surely preferable to the national autodetermination practiced in past centuries." p.13 Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by: Police Against The New World Order, 1992
"It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subject to the bright lights of publicity during those years. But, the world is now more sophisticated and prepared to march towards a world government. The supranational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers is surely preferable to the national autodetermination practiced in past centuries."
p.13 Operation Vampire Killer 2000, Published by:
Police Against The New World Order, 1992
Is the media at large in America and other complicitous media controlled singly by means of "directors" or the outer machinery of Freemasonry ? The answer appears to reveal itself in the New Age Group Mind phenomena.
Although the term "mediarchy," rulership or control by means of the media, is a term which could be derived from David Rockefeller's leaked praise for a conspiratous effort to subvert the U.S. Constitution and replace it with a "supranational sovereignty of an intellectual elite and world bankers", the term surfaces specifically in connection with a form of control which "resonates throughout the field" in the form of Group Mind of telepathic receptivity and coordination.
The term mediarchy was used by a New Age spokesman for "awakened warriorship" expressed through the medium of art.. In an article interviewing José Argüelles, Meditation Magazine lists the New Ager as "educated at the University of Chicago (BA 1961. MA 1963 and Ph.D. 1969) - Artist. poet, visionary historian and cosmic harmonist, he is recognized as a leading spokesman for the principles of art as awakened warriorship and the role of art as a dynamic agent of planetary transformation" and lists several books he has authored. [page 50, Meditation Magazine, Summer 1987].
The warrior theme of the Masonic / New Age movement is evident in the interview, which pertains not to the arts of canvas, but the arts of occult/New Age transformations. Argüelles' explanation of "control" experienced in a coordinating network of groups pertains to receptivity to the spirit guide Hierarchy control which resonates throughout the field. He speaks of a number of groups operating like this and speaks further of their convergence into a larger network.
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles} An important thing, once we reach that window, is that through the surrender and through the quality of sublime receptivity which we can cultivate, we will receive information that will catalyze a new sense of vision - a new planetary vision and a new sense of purpose.... The other {area for creating the communication matrix of the five year period} is the role of global media, television and radio. There are a number of moves occurring right now attempting to establish global programming ... . ... It may very well be that through this period something of an information government, which I've referred to in the Crystal Earth Papers as a "mediarchy," will emerge that will help process the information, will assist in the demilitarization, will assist in the cleaning up of the planet and that will become paramount. MM: ... José, is there some sort of coordinating network at this point or would a lot of different groups set it up ? JA: Basically there are a lot of groups working on this now. ... And depart of the old style is to think that there has to be a central control. The field of trust doesn't operate that way. The field of trust operates knowing control resonates throughout the field. Many groups are operating like this now. We have to trust that we will all converge, harmonic convergence, at that moment and that what is necessary for the unfolding of the next phase will become apparent through the process of convergence, ... MM: It might be helpful as well if there were coordinated networking, so that groups would be aware of other groups. JA: We're developing that right now, in fact we're almost at the completion stage of it.... As I mentioned earlier that state of surrender and receptivity is of the utmost importance - surrender, receptivity and trust. ... and I think that, particularly through the 5-year purification period {1987-1992}, we will see the emergence of a type of earth/geomancy {geomancy, a form of divination} council that will be working with, for instance, the mediarchy, or the planetary information council. p. 19 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles}
An important thing, once we reach that window, is that through the surrender and through the quality of sublime receptivity which we can cultivate, we will receive information that will catalyze a new sense of vision - a new planetary vision and a new sense of purpose....
The other {area for creating the communication matrix of the five year period} is the role of global media, television and radio. There are a number of moves occurring right now attempting to establish global programming ... .
It may very well be that through this period something of an information government, which I've referred to in the Crystal Earth Papers as a "mediarchy," will emerge that will help process the information, will assist in the demilitarization, will assist in the cleaning up of the planet and that will become paramount.
MM: ... José, is there some sort of coordinating network at this point or would a lot of different groups set it up ?
JA: Basically there are a lot of groups working on this now. ... And depart of the old style is to think that there has to be a central control. The field of trust doesn't operate that way. The field of trust operates knowing control resonates throughout the field. Many groups are operating like this now. We have to trust that we will all converge, harmonic convergence, at that moment and that what is necessary for the unfolding of the next phase will become apparent through the process of convergence, ...
MM: It might be helpful as well if there were coordinated networking, so that groups would be aware of other groups.
JA: We're developing that right now, in fact we're almost at the completion stage of it....
As I mentioned earlier that state of surrender and receptivity is of the utmost importance - surrender, receptivity and trust.
... and I think that, particularly through the 5-year purification period {1987-1992}, we will see the emergence of a type of earth/geomancy {geomancy, a form of divination} council that will be working with, for instance, the mediarchy, or the planetary information council.
p. 19 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue,
The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
"Control resonates throughout the field." Within the framework of persons participating in a New Age "Group Mind" in colluding to bring about a New World Order, usurping the U.S. national and Constitutional sovereignty and working to replace it with rulership by means of an occult oligarchy and intellectual elites, the need for micro-management by the "directors" of major media institutions fades.
The capacity of the Luciferian Hierarchy to manipulate the "sublime receptivity" of Group Mind members who "receive information that will catalyze a new sense of vision" is embodied in the word "surrender." It is apparent that the type of "mediarchy" which Argüelles refers to represents a much deeper base of interaction than which could be effected through the organizational efforts of key directors of media outlets.
Members of the Bilderberger Group could meet in the "Empire of the Air," and that portion of the public which does not belong to the New Age movement could continue to perceive only the "smiling faces" on the air waves of persons who have blanked out their minds in a field of "surrender, receptivity and trust."
In his interview, it appears that Argüelles may be referring to the activity of networking "outer Brotherhoods" of the so-called Group Minds, considering that Alice Bailey previously expressed an already existing relationship that "what transpires in one department is known in the others."
And yet withal there is the closest co-operation in all departments, with no loss of energy. Owing to the Unity of consciousness of those who are free from the three lower planes, what transpires in one department is known in the others. p. 106 Initiation Human and Solar, Alice A. Bailey, 1922, 1992
And yet withal there is the closest co-operation in all departments, with no loss of energy. Owing to the Unity of consciousness of those who are free from the three lower planes, what transpires in one department is known in the others.
p. 106 Initiation Human and Solar,
Alice A. Bailey, 1922, 1992
"Those who are free from the three lower planes" is an evident description of discarnate Luciferian entities, who know what takes place in the other "departments.".
Telepathic networking was also referred to by high level Mason, Satanist and spirtualist minister William Schnoebelen.
However, I knew what it was like to have my mind filled with the scalding hot fog of the "brilliance" of Lucifer. I experienced "more light" in Masonry with a vengeance! I knew the feeling of being linked mentally into a vast spider web of communications, and being part of an invisible army of slaves almost totally at the command of the Deceiver himself. p. 203 Masonry: Beyond The Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
However, I knew what it was like to have my mind filled with the scalding hot fog of the "brilliance" of Lucifer. I experienced "more light" in
Masonry with a vengeance! I knew the feeling of being linked mentally into a vast spider web of communications, and being part of an invisible army of slaves almost totally at the command of the Deceiver himself.
p. 203 Masonry: Beyond The Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991
Thus, Group Minds of telepathic communications presided over by a Luciferian Hierarchy and governed by "Inner" concealed "Brotherhoods" provide the organizational framework capable of perpetrating a "mediarchy," Masonically and by means of other New Age agencies.
Argüelles is not immune to the trend to "change the words" or language of spiritualism. Yet, Argüelles unavoidably makes reference to "the spirit guides" as you may shortly see.
It is not simply an issue of whether Masonry has smitten the News Media, or whether Bilderberger "insiders" have controlled the press from their powerful positions. What the New Age movement has been expecting and working for is that psychic powers play a dominant role in society, whether through the control of information and a "mediarchy" or through restructuring institutions in general according to "transmitted" "spiritual traditions."
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles} From that, then as we move through the next 20-25 years, the role of what we now have been referring to as paranormal faculties or qualities or powers will become not only increasingly important but increasingly dominant in the structure and organization of our life and of the planetary life that we are creating. MM: In a sense a real science of the spirit will develop, which will no longer be treated as a strange religious or occult realm. JA: You might say a genuine science of spirit, a genuine science of mind that is grounded in cosmic principles. ... The truth of it is that through utilizing those genuine living spiritual traditions that have been transmitted, we are going to create the foundation for the new order, for the new world that is dawning. p. 16 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
From that, then as we move through the next 20-25 years, the role of what we now have been referring to as paranormal faculties or qualities or powers will become not only increasingly important but increasingly dominant in the structure and organization of our life and of the planetary life that we are creating.
MM: In a sense a real science of the spirit will develop, which will no longer be treated as a strange religious or occult realm.
JA: You might say a genuine science of spirit, a genuine science of mind that is grounded in cosmic principles.
The truth of it is that through utilizing those genuine living spiritual traditions that have been transmitted, we are going to create the foundation for the new order, for the new world that is dawning.
p. 16 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue,
Cosmic principles, cosmic law, cosmic consciousness; code for Saturnian principles, karmic law and Luciferian consciousness.
"The new order" which Argüelles explains is expected to be built by utilizing "spiritual traditions that have been transmitted" and employs "paranormal faculties" "which will no longer be treated as a strange religious or occult realm." That is precisely what is happening in public schools in America and in corporations which compel employees to participate in New Age practices. Argüelles describes "paranormal faculties" as becoming "increasingly dominant in the structure and organization of our life."
The "spiritual traditions that have been transmitted" have been enunciated by New Age principals such as Alice Bailey advocating the Karma Clause of "group work" in subverting the human will and character. The "Great Work" of witchcraft, Masonry and New Age movement involves subversion of the human soul and is an aggressive campaign of deceit and includes compulsion.
The New Age spirit guide agenda involves an "entity who ... enters the body of a human" "entering directly into adult bodies ... to take over human form." Explicit language by a New Age leader demonstrates the New Age plan : to end the human race, Homo sapiens, which involves massive New Age initiation, massive "imprinting," the take-over of the human form by outside entities.
After referring to the "spiritual traditions" utilized to "create the foundation for the new order, for the new world that is dawning" Argüelles states :
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles} At that point there will be an actual evolutionary shift of major proportions. The phase that we refer to as Homo sapiens on the evolutionary scale will be ended and a new evolutionary stage will occur. It will be like a massive imprinting that will take place at that time, a galactic imprinting. Following that we will be entering a phase, which for lack of any better terms with regards to ourselves as a species, we could call super-human: beyond what we know of as human now and in which we are functioning as a single organism. ... We will then be operating also with the fifth dimension which is the plane of the spirit guides or the ascended masters. We will be operating as a multi-dimensional organism. p. 18 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
At that point there will be an actual evolutionary shift of major proportions. The phase that we refer to as Homo sapiens on the evolutionary scale will be ended and a new evolutionary stage will occur. It will be like a massive imprinting that will take place at that time, a galactic imprinting. Following that we will be entering a phase, which for lack of any better terms with regards to ourselves as a species, we could call super-human: beyond what we know of as human now and in which we are functioning as a single organism. ... We will then be operating also with the fifth dimension which is the plane of the spirit guides or the ascended masters. We will be operating as a multi-dimensional organism.
p. 18 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue,
The description of "functioning as a single organism" following a planned "massive imprinting" describes the end result of "no-name-ness" of surrendering personal identity as the New Age host is transformed into a biological vehicle for New Age Luciferian spirits.
As Manly P. Hall put it,
"... he must slough off his mind that his consciousness may be disentangled from the infinite complex of the mental web ... Consequently, ... the mind ... too must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished. By the death of the mind consciousness is released to complete perfection." p. 65 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
"... he must slough off his mind that his consciousness may be disentangled from the infinite complex of the mental web ...
Consequently, ... the mind ... too must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished. By the death of the mind consciousness is released to complete perfection."
p. 65 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy:
An Introduction To Practical Ideals,
Manly P. Hall, 1984
New Age "perfection" involves the death of the human mind, 'disentangling' human consciousness from the telepathic "mental web." The "consciousness" which "is released to complete perfection" is consequently that of the incarnating New Age spirit within the brain of the human, using the human body as a "fleshly glove" or vehicle.
According the the New Age / Masonic Plan, the human race is slotted to be reduced to a mere biological organism to serve as host vehicles for discarnate Luciferian spirits.
New Age spirit guide Alder referred to the massive imprinting as "world Initiation" under the auspices of Satan. The term "super-human" applied to the results of "massive imprinting" or Luciferic initiation does not lack better, more accurate terms of description. Ultimately, the term "fleshly glove" for a Luciferian spirit is far more accurate.
Alder also makes the astonishing disclosure that ... "The Saturnian spirit, "Satan," let us not forget, ensouls the Third great major or Primary Ray of Deity and wields the great Laws of cause and effect, action and reaction---Karma! Therefore, the world Initiation to which we are drawing near today is being brought to birth by a universal access of Pain and of pressure, to which humanity is responding with widespread action, leading, naturally, to . . . Initiation." p. 69 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988 {quotation taken from Vera Alder, The Initiation of the World (York Beach, Me.:"Samuel Weiser, Incl, 1972), p. 109.}
Alder also makes the astonishing disclosure that ...
"The Saturnian spirit, "Satan," let us not forget, ensouls the Third great major or Primary Ray of Deity and wields the great Laws of cause and effect, action and reaction---Karma!
Therefore, the world Initiation to which we are drawing near today is being brought to birth by a universal access of Pain and of pressure, to which humanity is responding with widespread action, leading, naturally, to . . . Initiation."
p. 69 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988
{quotation taken from Vera Alder, The Initiation of the World (York Beach, Me.:"Samuel Weiser, Incl, 1972), p. 109.}
Former U.S. Air Force officer Texe Marrs, quoted two New Age sources which represent dire threats to the survival of the human race.
Foster Bailey, of the Lucis Trust, further reinforces this dogmatic stance: The new civilization in Aquarius will inevitably develop a quality appropriate to what we consider most valuable . . . . Our children, and men . . . will have to live with the New Age standards. Those who do not will end up as irreconcilable outcasts. p. 27 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988 {quotation taken from Bailey, Things to Come, p. 39}
Foster Bailey, of the Lucis Trust, further reinforces this dogmatic stance:
The new civilization in Aquarius will inevitably develop a quality appropriate to what we consider most valuable . . . . Our children, and men . . . will have to live with the New Age standards. Those who do not will end up as irreconcilable outcasts.
p. 27 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988
{quotation taken from Bailey, Things to Come, p. 39}
The real face of Luciferian tyranny and intimidation, New Age "peace", emerges not only in Masonic / New Age philosophy, but in New Age spirit guide utterances through their spirit "channellers" and otherwise through the pronouncements of New Age leaders. The "pain and pressure" tactic to compell persons into the New Age movement, "towards world initiation," is diabolical, indeed.
The New Age leadership has flatly stated that in the coming New Age Kingdom, Christians will have to change their lifestyles and their entire way of thinking and become good "Aquarians" or else. Barbara Marx Hubbard has threatened: "People will either change or die. That is the choice." p. 27 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs,1988 {quotation taken from Barbara Marx Hubbard, Happy Birth Day Planet Earth! (Santa Fe, N.M.: Ocean Tree Books, 1986), p. 32}
The New Age leadership has flatly stated that in the coming New Age Kingdom, Christians will have to change their lifestyles and their entire way of thinking and become good "Aquarians" or else. Barbara Marx Hubbard has threatened: "People will either change or die. That is the choice."
{quotation taken from Barbara Marx Hubbard, Happy Birth Day Planet Earth!
(Santa Fe, N.M.: Ocean Tree Books, 1986), p. 32}
The "warrior" terminology in the New Age movement and Freemasonry does not simply represent a war of words. Lord Maitreya speaks of "My Army" "My Warriors." The telepathically networked Group Minds in which telepathic impression resonates throughout enables the dubious description by New Age "special forces" that "we are our own commander and infantry."
The means which are presented in The Warrior's Edge as part of the "arsenal" with which to demonstrate "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" include a broad spectrum of psychic intrusive and destructive means. Included are psychic means having the capacity to achieve the "manipulation of others" which the authors of said book advocate. The New Age movement represents a human rights violating arsenal and a human rights violating agenda.
In this New Age we are our own commanders and infantry, truly special forces of a sort that has never been seen at war before. . . . Charge on to the only true victory there is, that of spiritual liberation . . . Like the colonists of this country who began this struggle for liberation, we owe it to ourselves to complete it. The fate of the world depends on us. p. 33 Dark Secrets of The New Age: Satan's Plan for a One World Religion, Texe Marrs,1987 {as quoted from Jack Underhill, "The Second American Revolution, The New Crusades," Life Times, Winter 1986-87, p. 2}
In this New Age we are our own commanders and infantry, truly special forces of a sort that has never been seen at war before. . . . Charge on to the only true victory there is, that of spiritual liberation . . .
Like the colonists of this country who began this struggle for liberation, we owe it to ourselves to complete it. The fate of the world depends on us.
p. 33 Dark Secrets of The New Age: Satan's Plan for a One World Religion, Texe Marrs,1987
{as quoted from Jack Underhill, "The Second American Revolution,
The New Crusades," Life Times, Winter 1986-87, p. 2}
Occult liberation is slavery leading to total Hierarchical impression.
Argüelles makes a remarkable statement in his interview which precedes his description of the end of the human race, Homo sapiens.
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles} JA: That we're not alone in an inhuman universe. The popular image of being alone in this cold, terrifying, violent universe is merely a projection of our own condition of alienation resulting from our creating a belief that separates us from nature. p. 13 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
JA: That we're not alone in an inhuman universe. The popular image of being alone in this cold, terrifying, violent universe is merely a projection of our own condition of alienation resulting from our creating a belief that separates us from nature.
p. 13 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue,
The alienation of the world on the whole is fundamentally and principally alienation from God, and not as the New Age teaches, from nature. That condition of alienation from God resulted from creating a belief, a philosophical belief, that man is inherently immortal, and that under the auspices of Lucifer, the serpent power, that man could evolve into godhood. The Masonic / New Age philosophy takes God out of the picture by claiming that mankind evolved from animals and that he (or she) can evolve into godhood.
The New Age agenda is not only a philosophical deception leading to individual ruin, but it is a violent agenda directed at corrupting the human race spiritistically, by force, by compelled initiation, if necessary, divorcing human beings from their bodies and taking them over through deception or compulsion by New Age Luciferian entities.
Stepping up that Process
"Rapidly stepping up that process" of divorcing Americans from their bodies is evident by teachings in special schools, such as Clinton's Governor's School, as well as in general public education as revealed by Phyllis Schlafly in proceedings before the U.S. Department of Education, edited in her book Child Abuse in the Classroom.
It should be obvious that the sponsorship of techniques such as those teaching students to divorce themselves from their bodies already declares who proponents of New Age Alienation are. There are New Age proponents who are "stepping up that process" of "walking-in."
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "They are all around you, and will soon become more apparent as the world recognizes the need for rapidly stepping up that process [walking-in] in preparation for the evil days of the next decade, and the shift of the axis at the close of the century. They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long, as an essential step in recognizing the work that will have to be done rapidly and well." p. 122 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"They are all around you, and will soon become more apparent as the world recognizes the need for rapidly stepping up that process [walking-in] in preparation for the evil days of the next decade, and the shift of the axis at the close of the century. They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long, as an essential step in recognizing the work that will have to be done rapidly and well."
The alienation of mankind represented by the New Age movement is not only alienation from God who directed the writing of the Bible, but it represents the alienation of human beings from their own bodies, to be taken over by Luciferian entities. The New Age agenda is to engage in "stepping up that process." The "evil days" are becoming even more evil.
It appears that one of the key players in accelerating the New Age agenda is Bill Clinton. After Arkansas Governor Clinton lost his gubernatorial re-election bid, the succeeding Governor was aghast at the changes which Bill Clinton had implemented in the public schools, and brought about reversals. However, when Clinton was re-elected as Governor, he instituted the Governor's School in which some of the most promising youth (17 year olds) were essentially isolated from their parents while being exposed to a morally elitist program.
The video documentary, referred to in an earlier chapter in this book, shows young persons on the floor being taught to "divorce yourselves from your bodies." It was evident that the students were just sitting back up from lying on the floor while a teacher asked them "are you ready to divorce yourselves from your bodies ?".
Based on the spirit guide teaching that "It is unnecessary to do this more than a few times before a high-minded entity will begin to make its presence felt", the students were evidently made "ready" to carry on that practice during further sessions, whether on their own time, at home, or otherwise.
The New Age mystical techniques or traditions are not science but have been transmitted from the New Age spirit guide Hierarchy. New Age guides have explained how a person can divorce oneself from one's body by vacating one's mind to enable another entity to occupy it, incarnating itself on the physical plane through the body of the participant.
{WARNING ! : The following quote by Guides of the author through "automatic writing."}
"When one decides to make his body available for a more highly evolved entity, he should picture himself floating off into space, while another sets up housekeeping in his vacated body. ... It is unnecessary to do this more than a few times before a high-minded entity will begin to make its presence felt. ... But the vacater should not practice this unless he has definitely decided that he would like to return to spirit, and is willing to have his present incarnation carried on by another. ... To prepare for a Walk-in, first surround oneself with the golden protective light. Then, as one begins to feel the presence of another, he may invite him in by taking leave of the body for short periods. The best time for this is while lying in bed or on the floor, so that no injury would result from a brief period of unconsciousness while the entity slips into the vacated mind. p. 25 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,197
"When one decides to make his body available for a more highly evolved entity, he should picture himself floating off into space, while another sets up housekeeping in his vacated body. ...
It is unnecessary to do this more than a few times before a high-minded entity will begin to make its presence felt. ...
But the vacater should not practice this unless he has definitely decided that he would like to return to spirit, and is willing to have his present incarnation carried on by another.
To prepare for a Walk-in, first surround oneself with the golden protective light. Then, as one begins to feel the presence of another, he may invite him in by taking leave of the body for short periods. The best time for this is while lying in bed or on the floor, so that no injury would result from a brief period of unconsciousness while the entity slips into the vacated mind.
p. 25 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,197
Have your children been warned of New Age techniques which unscrupulous teachers and/or school might attempt to foist upon them or present for participation "under another name" ?
As Dr. Lawrence testified, it is extremely dangerous to empty one's mind allowing another entity to enter one's consciousness. The spirit guides writing "automatically" through Ruth Montgomery specifically stated that "the entity slips into the vacated mind." Occult visualization techniques, such as surrounding oneself with a "golden protective light" is one device which prepares the participant for occupation.
The device is known and can be intelligently avoided or resisted without a person being deceptively drawn into such dangerous practices. Parents and students can be prepared with pre-emptive knowledge not to fall into New Age traps or to be compelled into New Age programs which are often "re-packaged."
The role of Governor Clinton cannot be underestimated in the proliferation of spiritistic practices, enabling "Walk-in" New Age entities to take up residency in America's youth. Senoir DeMolay Clinton has obtained national recognition as a leader of young people on a path dedicated to occult traditions, and has established himself in the arena of the New Age agenda.
{A Walk-in} asserted, and my Guides verified, that five of the sixty Serving Brotherhoods are composed entirely of Walk-ins, or of entities who in a previous life had been Walk-ins, and that one of their major functions is to assist those who are entering directly into adult bodies. Without the help of one of these five Brotherhoods, it is said to be impossible for a Walk-in to take over human form. p. 96 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
{A Walk-in} asserted, and my Guides verified, that five of the sixty Serving Brotherhoods are composed entirely of Walk-ins, or of entities who in a previous life had been Walk-ins, and that one of their major functions is to assist those who are entering directly into adult bodies. Without the help of one of these five Brotherhoods, it is said to be impossible for a Walk-in to take over human form.
p. 96 Strangers Among Us:
Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
While Masonry has sponsored the path of "illumination" and "permeation of the brain-mind" by Lucifer, other New Age groups have used other terminology and have even taken bolder, less gradual steps at "entry levels" to speed up the quest of New Age spirit entities, "stepping up that process" "to take over human form." Under the sponsorship of Bill Clinton's Governor's School such dangerous and subversive practices have been introduced to youth.
With the aid of Clinton's Governor's School, and it's staff who have assisted youth in New Age practice, there are American children who have been subverted, fundamentally, substantially, and they have been robbed from their parents in a six week virtually "incommunicado" environment. The referred to video documentary The Guiding Hand also considers the shift or undermining of moral values which the Governor's School has facilitated. Jacques DeMolay would no doubt have been gleeful to have been a guest speaker in Clinton's School.
Dr. Lawrence well as Dave Hunt and T.A. McMahon have enunciated the dangers of evacuating the mind, blanking it, voiding it.
It is these very "technologies for expanding and transforming personal consciousness" that Marilyn Ferguson lauds in The Aquarian Conspiracy. Yet in keeping with warnings expressed by Atrign and others, there are many documented cases of persons involved not only in TM but in other forms of Yoga and autosuggestion having extremely frightening and uncontrollable spiritual experiences. As a result, some have been driven to insanity and even suicide---but these facts are deliberately suppressed. {footnote} The same problems often plague participants in assorted mind-dynamics and self-improvement courses, especially where the techniques involve contact with visualized "inner guides." p. 49 The New Spirituality: A Consumer's Guide to the Exploding Mystical Marketplace, Dave Hunt & T.A. McMahon,1988, [America: the sorcerer's new apprentice]
It is these very "technologies for expanding and transforming personal consciousness" that Marilyn Ferguson lauds in The Aquarian Conspiracy. Yet in keeping with warnings expressed by Atrign and others, there are many documented cases of persons involved not only in TM but in other forms of Yoga and autosuggestion having extremely frightening and uncontrollable spiritual experiences. As a result, some have been driven to insanity and even suicide---but these facts are deliberately suppressed. {footnote} The same problems often plague participants in assorted mind-dynamics and self-improvement courses, especially where the techniques involve contact with visualized "inner guides."
p. 49 The New Spirituality: A Consumer's Guide to the Exploding Mystical Marketplace, Dave Hunt & T.A. McMahon,1988, [America: the sorcerer's new apprentice]
The referred to video documentary of the Clinton Governor's School sadly relates the suicide of a young man who had become withdrawn after participating in the Governor's School. It is generally unknown how many of the participating young people might have otherwise "withdrawn" by being co-opted temporarily or permanently by New Age entities while "divorcing" themselves from their bodies.
How extensive is the New Age spirit guide plan for "stepping up that process" ?
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} Then they {spirit Guides} made another electrifying statement: "There will be a President of the United States in the latter part of this century who is a Walk-in ... p. 207 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Then they {spirit Guides} made another electrifying statement: "There will be a President of the United States in the latter part of this century who is a Walk-in ...
p. 207 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
In the context of the inner, Lucifer "illuminated," ruling body of Freemasonry, such an objective is not altogether surprising. For Ruth Montgomery, who is part of the spiritualistic New Age movement it has been characterized as an "electrifying statement." Even if the fulfillment of such a plan would be delayed, the objective of having a New Age Luciferian spirit such as Lucifer, Asher, Alder, Lord Maitreya, or another New Age spirit, whether deceptively beneficent or boldly anti-Christ, assume incarnate residence in the White House is horrifying.
"to surrender his body"
Preparing persons to surrender their bodies to New Age entities embodies a key component of preparing for the "New Age" of incarnated Luciferian entities.
{Meditation Magazine interviews José Argüelles} JA: ... The key factor in the preparation {for the purification phase} is a sense of surrender - surrender to the higher evolutionary purpose of the planet and surrender to the higher galactic intelligence which monitors this planet. That sense of surrender obviously is an individual responsibility, but it is necessarily undertaken with other people. So we're talking about a small group phenomenon, the small collective, small cooperatives. The attitude by which to enter into the August 16-17 period, which is like a two-day window in time, is this one of surrender. An important thing, once we reach that window, is that through the surrender and through the quality of sublime receptivity which we can cultivate, we will receive information that will catalyze a new sense of vision - a new planetary vision and a new sense of purpose. p. 10 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
JA: ... The key factor in the preparation {for the purification phase} is a sense of surrender - surrender to the higher evolutionary purpose of the planet and surrender to the higher galactic intelligence which monitors this planet. That sense of surrender obviously is an individual responsibility, but it is necessarily undertaken with other people. So we're talking about a small group phenomenon, the small collective, small cooperatives. The attitude by which to enter into the August 16-17 period, which is like a two-day window in time, is this one of surrender.
An important thing, once we reach that window, is that through the surrender and through the quality of sublime receptivity which we can cultivate, we will receive information that will catalyze a new sense of vision - a new planetary vision and a new sense of purpose.
p. 10 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue,
The "galactic intelligence which monitors this planet" is in the New Age movement and in Freemasonry Lucifer, the "great Orb," "reading his {the Mason's} thoughts."
New Age spokesman José Argüelles claims that "surrender" is an "individual responsibility" "necessarily undertaken with other people," and that "sublime receptivity" is a means of receiving "information." The harmonic convergence occasion he was referring to in 1987 was an event for New Age manipulation of the human race, telepathically.
The manipulation, through "surrender" and telepathic "receptivity," leads not to the salvation of the human race, but to it's end. "No-name-ness" de-emphasizes the identity of the individual while preparing human beings to serve as human "forms" for luciferian "Walk-ins."
As I mentioned earlier that state of surrender and receptivity is of the utmost importance - surrender, receptivity and trust. Insofar as the many legitimate meditation techniques allow an individual to get to that place of openness and surrender, of no-name-ness, and as individuals can form into group alliances where they are able to get to that level of surrender and receptive no-nameness, then that helps to create and strengthen this field of trust. ... The truth of it is that through utilizing those genuine living spiritual traditions that have been transmitted, we are going to create the foundation for the new order, for the new world that is dawning. ... At that point there will be an actual evolutionary shift of major proportions. The phase that we refer to as Homo sapiens on the evolutionary scale will be ended and a new evolutionary stage will occur. It will be like a massive imprinting that will take place at that time, a galactic imprinting. ... p. 18 Meditation Magazine, 1986, Summer of 1987 issue, The Intergroup for Planetary Oneness, Van Nuys, California
As I mentioned earlier that state of surrender and receptivity is of the utmost importance - surrender, receptivity and trust. Insofar as the many legitimate meditation techniques allow an individual to get to that place of openness and surrender, of no-name-ness, and as individuals can form into group alliances where they are able to get to that level of surrender and receptive no-nameness, then that helps to create and strengthen this field of trust.
At that point there will be an actual evolutionary shift of major proportions. The phase that we refer to as Homo sapiens on the evolutionary scale will be ended and a new evolutionary stage will occur. It will be like a massive imprinting that will take place at that time, a galactic imprinting. ...
The "receptivity" to telepathic impression by the Hierarchy of discarnate New Age spirits is closely associated with the "state of surrender." The means of cajoling "surrender" by the occult "evil empire" include methods of "pain and pressure" wherein the role of telepathic thought "impression" and feeling "impression" underscore the meaning of New Age karmic "tyranny."
The very so-called "spiritual tradition" of "divorcing" oneself from one's body has been "transmitted" by New Age spirit guides, and such "spiritual traditions that have been transmitted ... are going to create the foundation for the new order ..."
Surrender of one's body, no-name-ness, divorcing oneself of one's identity, divorcing oneself from one's body, ending the "phase" of Homo-sapiens, the human race, occult "spiritual traditions that have been transmitted" "to create the foundation for the new order," might be Lucifer's dream, but it is humanity's nightmare. Re-incarnation, the process by which a discarnate New Age Luciferian spirit inhabits one human body and later moves on to another, is associated with a "willingness" "to surrender" one's "body."
I was somewhat troubled by the assertion that on occasion a Walk-in whose body dies can almost immediately enter that of another adult, since the Guides had earlier indicated that some preparation with a willing Walk-out is necessary before the transition. But my unseen friends said I was overlooking two factors: Help from several discarnates is always required to effect the changeover, and Walk-ins have more highly developed telepathic powers than most of us. Thus they can be alerted to the willingness of another to surrender his body, and can be in mental contact with that person well before their own body expires. p. 60 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
I was somewhat troubled by the assertion that on occasion a Walk-in whose body dies can almost immediately enter that of another adult, since the Guides had earlier indicated that some preparation with a willing Walk-out is necessary before the transition. But my unseen friends said I was overlooking two factors: Help from several discarnates is always required to effect the changeover, and Walk-ins have more highly developed telepathic powers than most of us. Thus they can be alerted to the willingness of another to surrender his body, and can be in mental contact with that person well before their own body expires.
p. 60 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The nightmare has been attended by pain and suffering through world wars, criminal gangs occultly involved, and international organized crime which has purveyed destructive and morally debilitating drugs. The New Age method of inducing "pain and pressure" was enunciated specifically by a New Age spirit guide, and has as a principle goal the "surrender" of the human being to enable a "Walk-in to take over human form." "Pain and pressure" is supposed to induce or precipitate an "attitude of surrender," according to the occult conspiracy.
Thus, inducing discouragement in human beings provides one path to taking over human form. Part of the arsenal of psychic "warriors" involves the capacity to induce nervous breakdowns and feelings of dread. The Karma Clause of group influence, black magic, to subvert the thinking and character of human beings, aligned with the Karmic formula for evil enunciated by Manly P. Hall, have been duly exposed. New Age spirit guides who offer themselves to "walk-in" the bodies of willing persons who are discouraged is painted by the "Guides" as beneficent on their part and as the solution to mankind's problems.
New Age spirit "Guides" asserted their achievements in a book published in 1979. Notice that the New Age "path" which is referred to is that of "Walk-ins" which is one of several paths to being taken over, including Masonic "illumination," and advanced Neuro-Linguistic Programming in which the practitioner is taken over, "part" by "part." The overt "Walk-in" strategy uses several deceptive methods, one of which is to co-opt the "discouraged and heartsick."
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} I asked the Guides if any of our current political leaders are Walk-ins, and they replied: "In the U.S. government there are some in reasonably high places and in intelligence-gathering circles, but successful politicians are less likely to give way to a replacement than are those who have become discouraged and heartsick. A few have attained political power since becoming Walk-ins but at present there is not an abundance of them in the higher echelons." p. 34 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
I asked the Guides if any of our current political leaders are Walk-ins, and they replied: "In the U.S. government there are some in reasonably high places and in intelligence-gathering circles, but successful politicians are less likely to give way to a replacement than are those who have become discouraged and heartsick. A few have attained political power since becoming Walk-ins but at present there is not an abundance of them in the higher echelons."
p. 34 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,
1979
While the spirit medium Ruth Montgomery cites discouragement as one possible motivation for a persons in government to surrender themselves to possession by a discarnate spirit, as the research work America's Subversion: The Enemy Within documents : the pursuit of the acquisition of psychic powers is one of the principal paths of spirit mediumship, and spirit mediumship represents various stages of spirit possession.
The "discouraged and heartsick" tactic is one of several used by New Age "Guides" for their "Walk-in" strategy.
Another tactic is to represent the process of Walking-in as the solution to plaguing problems, the 'surrender your body for the betterment of the many' ploy. New Age "Guides" are 'volunteering' "to take over bodies" "to ease the path for others."
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} Referring to the coming holocaust, the Guides said it will be of such proportions that some now living will wish to withdraw from their physical bodies beforehand, rather than face the turmoil. In that event, they will be permitted to do so without incurring bad karma, because Walk-ins will volunteer to take over their bodies and ease the path for others who wish to remain. p. 71 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
p. 71 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Those who are not yet "discouraged" but who wish to "Walk-out" ahead of time are invited by the New Age spirit guides to surrender their bodies "and ease the path for others." Impending doom wielded by New Age forces and the Illuminati plot for world wars, corruption and oppression, have been part and parcel to the "Pain and pressure" methods of the New Age Hierarchy. The context comprises a strange position from which the "Guides" present themselves as beneficent beings rushing to mankind's aid by offering to take over their bodies.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "Understand, there is no pressure whatsoever for a person to become a Walk-out. It is entirely his choice, freely made, and although he may not necessarily realize it, his wishing for a long period of rest from worldly cares helps prepare the way for a Walk-in." p. 44 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"Understand, there is no pressure whatsoever for a person to become a Walk-out. It is entirely his choice, freely made, and although he may not necessarily realize it, his wishing for a long period of rest from worldly cares helps prepare the way for a Walk-in."
p. 44 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The spirit guide should have said instead that the New Age spirits have been creating the miserable conditions to "prepare the way" for "wishing for a long period of rest from worldly cares."
{A claimed Walk-in related :} "I remembered how last year in my tiny, dark apartment in another city, I had felt the presence of others, one in particular who asked to experience being in my body. If I am indeed a Walk-in, I have inherited the memory patterns of the original Laura ...I had welcomed the entity in my dreary little room, sometimes feeling uncomfortable and asking it to go away, but then allowing it to remain there longer. I asked it for help when I needed it, and offered to help it as well." At that point, Laura had left her incompatible husband and was living alone. Now the diary continues: "I was told that the other entity wanted to experience being me, and it did so briefly now and then. I would lie completely still, and will this other entity to become me for a while ... "Then it became regular and routine. Each night at bedtime I would relinquish my claim to this body, and allow the other entity to enter it and remain in it all night." ... "On the night before the full moon, there began the most painful headache I have ever had, around eight o'clock. I decided to go to bed early. I had chosen not to take painkillers, but to deal with the pain on other levels. Pain wracked this entire body, every inch of it. I can never remember such pain. I felt sick. I no longer cared if I finished the week's seminar, no longer cared about anything, and somewhere a connection was made with higher levels. Some stream of energy connected with the top of my head, as I willed the pain to leave the body and go out into freedom. I fell asleep.... p. 82 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
{A claimed Walk-in related :}
"I remembered how last year in my tiny, dark apartment in another city, I had felt the presence of others, one in particular who asked to experience being in my body. If I am indeed a Walk-in, I have inherited the memory patterns of the original Laura ...I had welcomed the entity in my dreary little room, sometimes feeling uncomfortable and asking it to go away, but then allowing it to remain there longer. I asked it for help when I needed it, and offered to help it as well."
At that point, Laura had left her incompatible husband and was living alone. Now the diary continues: "I was told that the other entity wanted to experience being me, and it did so briefly now and then. I would lie completely still, and will this other entity to become me for a while ...
"Then it became regular and routine. Each night at bedtime I would relinquish my claim to this body, and allow the other entity to enter it and remain in it all night."
"On the night before the full moon, there began the most painful headache I have ever had, around eight o'clock. I decided to go to bed early. I had chosen not to take painkillers, but to deal with the pain on other levels. Pain wracked this entire body, every inch of it. I can never remember such pain. I felt sick. I no longer cared if I finished the week's seminar, no longer cared about anything, and somewhere a connection was made with higher levels. Some stream of energy connected with the top of my head, as I willed the pain to leave the body and go out into freedom. I fell asleep....
p. 82 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The danger should also be mentioned of a person's being given the impression that he or she is a Walk-in, when he or she is not, or not yet.
Confusion.
Surrender.
Pain and pressure.
The Karma Clause work of New Age Groups, Serving Brotherhoods, or other New Age groups wielding the capacity, more or less, to induce thoughts or feelings, psychically, represents another form of "pressure," along with the capacity to induce pain, nervous breakdowns, or inordinate feelings of dread. The "ruthlessness" and "duplicity" of New Age "warriors" guided by the principles of "karma," presided over by the Saturnian spirit, Satan, represents an evil subversion of American citizens by forces alien to the human race. It is an international subversion of the human race.
The Karma Clause of the-victim-had-it-coming New Age Philosophical Empire, or the emerging "Golden Age" of Luciferian incarnates, has not been difficult to decode. Many of the New Age principles have been put to writing, automatic writing, or verbal channelling by New Age spirit guides themselves. The Illuminati's "dangerous secret" of an evil "great work" and "plan" has been exposed.
Ruthlessness, Duplicity, Manipulation
The Karma Clause and the psychic warrior code are prescriptions for evil. The manipulation of humans to suck them into the New Age milieu is euphemistically spoken of as being for their "eventual benefit." The process of Walking-in and directly taking over human bodies is represented as being for the benefit of the co-opted individuals as well as for the world.
Notice the emphasis on the use of psychic "influence technologies" in manipulating others.
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. Recognize what you are doing; we do. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic. p. 216 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
All intelligence techniques require ruthlessness, duplicity, and absolute integrity. No, these are not contradictions in terms. If you are using influence technologies correctly, you can and will achieve your objective by the manipulation of others. Recognize what you are doing; we do. If this manipulation is for the eventual benefit of these others as well as yourself, then you are adhering to the warrior ethic.
p. 216 The Warrior's Edge,
Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
The manipulation is psychological, as well as psychic. Impending doom is used to create anxiety to make persons more vulnerable to the deceptions of New Age spirit guides who seek to "incarnate" "on the physical plane" and re-construct the terrible so-called "Golden Age" of evil entities in the flesh.
Having in mind that New Age, Lucifer inspired/possessed Illuminati have planned three world wars (which Giuseppe Mazzini put into writing in 1871), two of which have been effected, notice how the New Age "Guides" adroitly maneuver persons into their gaping jaws by saying that World War Three can be prevented by immersion into New Age practices !
The Guides say that even World War III, which looms darkly on the horizon, can be prevented if we all begin now to concentrate our thoughts on a peaceful world. The energies will work toward that goal. p. 164 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The Guides say that even World War III, which looms darkly on the horizon, can be prevented if we all begin now to concentrate our thoughts on a peaceful world. The energies will work toward that goal.
p. 164 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The reference to "concentrate our thoughts on a peaceful world" and "The energies will work toward that goal" is that of New Age meditation, harmonic (telepathic) convergence. Yet, the "whole story of telepathic interplay" {powers} serves the purpose of "the growth of that oligarchy" of discarnate spirits. So they say that even World War III can be prevented if one blanks one's mind to enable discarnate entities to enter one's consciousness, and if one pursues an attitude of surrender, telepathic receptivity, and "trust."
The hypocrisy and duplicity of the New Age discarnates in maneuvering human beings into surrendering to their evil plan of co-opting the human race is seen in the following statement. The New Age "Guides" are intent on having humans put themselves in the "Flow" of Luciferic "energies," the "seething energies of Lucifer," as Manly P. Hall described it.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} The nuclear war! The needless war of the 1980's that can still be avoided if we learn to live cooperatively with one another, put ourselves in the Flow, and send forth the energies toward peace. Unfortunately, the Guides see little possibility of that idyllic state being achieved in time to prevent the holocaust of World War III.... If they are correct in their prognostications, World War III will be set off around 1987 ... the war need not be waged, but it is unlikely to be averted if the present course continues." p. 192 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The nuclear war! The needless war of the 1980's that can still be avoided if we learn to live cooperatively with one another, put ourselves in the Flow, and send forth the energies toward peace.
Unfortunately, the Guides see little possibility of that idyllic state being achieved in time to prevent the holocaust of World War III....
If they are correct in their prognostications, World War III will be set off around 1987
the war need not be waged, but it is unlikely to be averted if the present course continues."
p. 192 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The New Age spirit "Guides" are even more explicit, bold and brazen.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "Now as to World War III, which lies ahead, the situation is similar. Were there millions of Walk-ins working in unison, that catastrophe could perhaps be prevented, but in this present age of prosperity, how may luxury lovers are likely to say to a discarnate, 'Take my place. I'm ready to go on.'... If those too indolent to support themselves would be willing to surrender their physical bodies to Walk-ins, so many could enter that the nuclear war of the late 1980's might yet be averted, but this is unlikely to occur." p. 54 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"Now as to World War III, which lies ahead, the situation is similar. Were there millions of Walk-ins working in unison, that catastrophe could perhaps be prevented, but in this present age of prosperity, how may luxury lovers are likely to say to a discarnate, 'Take my place. I'm ready to go on.'...
If those too indolent to support themselves would be willing to surrender their physical bodies to Walk-ins, so many could enter that the nuclear war of the late 1980's might yet be averted, but this is unlikely to occur."
p. 54 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
What a deal ! The New Age Deal reads that if enough "Walk-ins" in the millions were to work in unison, the 1980's catastrophe of a Third World War, a nuclear war, could be averted. Talk about manipulation ! With New Age "spirit guide" talk like that in 1979, with declared impending nuclear war for the 1980's, that must have spurred the "outer Brotherhoods" into hyper-recruitment response. There was a flurry of behind-the-scenes activity to propel the New Age movement. "The New Age took off."
In the early 1980's the New Age Movement (little more than technologized, yuppie-fied witchcraft) was moving to center stage, with our former witch friends quitely working behind the scenes. About 80% of the New Age concepts were lifted right out of witchcraft, but the media packaging was critical! {Italics, the authors} It had to appear upscale, scientific and trendy. Thus the New Age took off. Wicca: Satan's Little White Lie, William Schnoebelen, 1990
In the early 1980's the New Age Movement (little more than technologized, yuppie-fied witchcraft) was moving to center stage, with our former witch friends quitely working behind the scenes. About 80% of the New Age concepts were lifted right out of witchcraft, but the media packaging was critical! {Italics, the authors} It had to appear upscale, scientific and trendy. Thus the New Age took off.
Wicca: Satan's Little White Lie, William Schnoebelen, 1990
spiritualism
A person who "channeled" communications between the earthly and spirit worlds was first referred to as a medium, although now they are often called channelers. The repertoire of the early mediums included table levitations, EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION, speaking in a spirit's voice during trances, AUTOMATIC WRITING, and the manifestation of apparitions and "ectoplasmic" matter. All such phenomena were attributed by the mediums to the agency of spirits. ... Spiritualism has had, since its inception, a large following. Many churches and societies have been founded that profess some variety of spiritualistic beliefs. ... Closely aligned with other NEW AGE beliefs, belief in spiritualism again became popular during the 1980's, particularly in the United States. p. 189 Academic American Encyclopedia, 1993
A person who "channeled" communications between the earthly and spirit worlds was first referred to as a medium, although now they are often called channelers. The repertoire of the early mediums included table levitations, EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION, speaking in a spirit's voice during trances, AUTOMATIC WRITING, and the manifestation of apparitions and "ectoplasmic" matter. All such phenomena were attributed by the mediums to the agency of spirits. ...
Spiritualism has had, since its inception, a large following. Many churches and societies have been founded that profess some variety of spiritualistic beliefs. ... Closely aligned with other NEW AGE beliefs, belief in spiritualism again became popular during the 1980's, particularly in the United States.
p. 189 Academic American Encyclopedia, 1993
A retired U.S. Air Force Intelligence officer wrote:
... regarding the New Age influence within our military service. That influence has especially made itself felt, said Kevin, in the upper echelons, among the high-ranking brass. But it impacts lower ranks as well. Military personnel are often ordered to attend such New Age mind control and spiritual training programs as est and Lifespring. Evine's research also turned up the alarming fact that in the early 1980's, officers at the prestigious Army War College at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, prepared a study aimed at creating a "New Age Army." These officers, some of whom were graduates of Werner Erhardt's est or former members of the radical university group Students for a Democratic Society, recommended the Army adopt meditation, psychic powers, magic, and neuro-linguistic (mind-talk hypnosis) training. p. 179 Mystery Mark of The New Age: Satan's Design for World Domination, Texe Marrs, retired Air Force Officer, 1988
... regarding the New Age influence within our military service. That influence has especially made itself felt, said Kevin, in the upper echelons, among the high-ranking brass. But it impacts lower ranks as well. Military personnel are often ordered to attend such New Age mind control and spiritual training programs as est and Lifespring.
Evine's research also turned up the alarming fact that in the early 1980's, officers at the prestigious Army War College at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, prepared a study aimed at creating a "New Age Army." These officers, some of whom were graduates of Werner Erhardt's est or former members of the radical university group Students for a Democratic Society, recommended the Army adopt meditation, psychic powers, magic, and neuro-linguistic (mind-talk hypnosis) training.
p. 179 Mystery Mark of The New Age:
Satan's Design for World Domination,
Texe Marrs, retired Air Force Officer, 1988
The ploys are seemingly endless. The New Age offers persons and nations defense from psychic victimization by inviting them to step into the telepathic vortex of deceptions, acute Hierarchical impression, and Luciferian manipulation and control.
All sorts of arguments are used in an effort to get human beings to surrender their bodies. There is the "luxury lovers" argument. There is the "too indolent to support themselves" argument. The hard-core "luxury lovers" are the Luciferian discarnates eager to possess someone else's body. Persons who use psychic powers to obtain wealth ride the road leading to co-option by discarnates who then end up loving the luxury, in someone else's body.
The "Plan" has expanded to include the "indolent" with the argument that if enough indolent persons give up their bodies to discarnates, the nuclear war of the 1980's could be averted. The New Age "Guides" are not only desperate, they are comprehensive in their approach, targeting persons in all levels of society to usher in their "Golden Age."
The New Age spirit guide pronouncement published in 1979 presented a prime example of New Age extortion. The Luciferian, New Age discarnates and Illuminati are purveyors of world war, misery, crime, corruption, and they suggest that surrender to their plan is a plan for peace. Giuseppi Mazzini put the plan for Three World Wars in writing in 1871. The modus operandi of the Illuminati include deception, manipulation, pain, pressure and extortion.
So what might one conclude ? The 1987 nuclear war did not occur. What might New Age "outer Brotherhoods" and other New Age groups have been manipulated into concluding as to their efforts in proliferating the New Age movement and facilitating and "speeding up that process" of "walking-in" ? No doubt what they might have been deceived into believing is that what is needed is more of the same, more "Walk-ins," more Illuminati.
Persons who found fault with President Jimmy Carter might find the New Age "Guide" techniques intriguing.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} It is a gloomy picture that the Guides are painting for the decade ahead. President Carter, they say, will be succeeded in the White House by another Democrat, {and a scenario is developed leading to war} ... But this will come too late, as war will already have broken out ... ... They ended their discussion of the war by declaring "this is as much as we wish to tell you now about those perilous times. But remember this! If men will see the folly of their ways, their war may yet be averted." p. 203 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
It is a gloomy picture that the Guides are painting for the decade ahead. President Carter, they say, will be succeeded in the White House by another Democrat, {and a scenario is developed leading to war} ... But this will come too late, as war will already have broken out ...
They ended their discussion of the war by declaring "this is as much as we wish to tell you now about those perilous times. But remember this! If men will see the folly of their ways, their war may yet be averted."
p. 203 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
Manipulation of others, psychically, is declared modus operandi in the New Age movement. If applied in the political realm, the scenario of New Age spirit guides maneuvering New Age activists to participate in influencing the outcome of political elections raises many questions as to the vulnerability of segments of the public to be influenced by individual psychic warriors or by "group work" methods enunciated by Alice Bailey and Foster Bailey.
The capacity inherent in methods of psychically influencing persons to think, feel, and/or vote a particular way or to be "polled" in desired ways could have much to do with the involvement by the targeted individuals in the use of drugs and alcohol which can heighten vulnerability to psychic influence, as well as other factors such as in astrology or other occult practices. The capacity to potentially influence "undecided votes" when and where the final ballots are cast presents other potentials for influencing voting outcomes.
(Incidentally, the power of public opinion polls has enormous political leverage, and the capacity for psychics to selectively bias outcomes by selecting persons polled on the street, and the capacity to influence persons who are polled raise the issue of potential manipulation of perceived public opinion which goes beyond the ability to formulate and interpret questions and answers to polls in ways which yield partisan advantages.)
Even if a Republican successor to Carter might have been genuinely predictable, the import of the New Age spirit guides pronouncements and warnings in 1979 could have provided a stimulus in the New Age communities to actively employ psychically clandestine means to achieve what might have been perceived to be a much more desirable outcome, and whether psychic power had a distinguishable effect to change the course of the election or whether a Republican would have succeeded President Carter anyway, more persons would have been drawn deeper into psychic involvement if reacting to the 1979 pronouncements by applying psychic "arts" in an endeavor to influence outcomes.
The key to psychologically manipulating the New Age community can be found in the words : "But remember this! ... their war may yet be averted." With an apparent and inherent challenge to alter the sequence of events predicted, as well as working to produce more "Walk-ins," the New Age communities may have been spurred psychologically to propel the New Age movement in the 1980's, as has been observed.
If the New Age groups at all had an influence in causing persons to "see the {alleged} folly of" electing a Democrat to succeed Carter (who was not known to be a Mason), to avert the alleged predicted sequence leading to nuclear war, it would have been a contribution to the outcome of the election which eventually resulted in an occultly oriented administration. Reagan's administration adopted the practice of appointing staff and setting meeting times according to astrological horoscopes, whereby astrology is an occult practice and Masonic practice which is presided over by the "great Orb," Lucifer. Reagan received an honorary 33rd degree in Freemasonry while in office.
The accomplishments of the Reagan/Bush administrations in keeping with the Illuminati plan included quadrupling the national debt (one of the "twin pillars" which Jessie Helms spoke of) and de-regulating the Saving and Loans, enabling their plundering to the tune of 500 billion dollars and for which the taxpayers have been indebted to the tune of 300 billion dollars, about $1,200 a head. Many elaborate defaulted building projects were sold by the government at a considerable loss enriching an elite who bought them for a song. The de-regulation czar, George Bush, was a former CIA Director, a reputed 33rd degree Mason, and a member of the Illuminist connected Skull and Bones Society in which candidates are reborn naked in a coffin while spirits are called upon to give the candidate a re-birth.
Thus, when Ted Turner, CNN media mogul, announced in 1988 that what America needed was a New Age President, the energized movement was in full swing, and a media principal tipped his hand.
This is the milieu in which so-called Outcome Based Education became a clandestine servant of the New Age agenda. "Hard" traditional learning skills have been de-emphasized in favor of philosophical testing, in which acceptance of lifestyles such as homosexuality are measured, and where such testing plays a role in whether a student advances in the grade structure or receives a diploma.
What is the New Age spirit guide agenda for education ?
The Easy Way Out
The discarnate Luciferian spirits seeking "incarnation" or "re-incarnation" have their own agenda. The occult is proliferating among young people. Luciferian discarnates are intent on becoming "Walk-ins." They are seeking so-called "Walk-outs" who would be willing to surrender their bodies, who would be willing to "divorce" themselves from their own bodies. In the field of education, Bill Clinton was, indeed, a self-styled agent "for a change" by means of his Governor's School in a most sinister way. What other educational ploys do New Age "Guides" have to funnel young and old into their gaping jaws ?
The "self-reliance" Ploy.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote included:} Inasmuch as many Walk-ins are leading the way toward this resurgence of self-reliance, I asked the Guides if any of our current political leaders are Walk-ins, and they replied ... p. 34 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
Inasmuch as many Walk-ins are leading the way toward this resurgence of self-reliance, I asked the Guides if any of our current political leaders are Walk-ins, and they replied ...
p. 34 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
Self-reliance ? Isn't that supposed to mean exercising the ability to do things oneself ?
The New Age spirit guide plan for education contradicts the image of "self-reliance" of people and students.
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} School systems will be drastically altered, for by tapping directly into the minds of others, one may secure the information he requires, without attending classrooms for twelve or sixteen years. p. 31 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
School systems will be drastically altered, for by tapping directly into the minds of others, one may secure the information he requires, without attending classrooms for twelve or sixteen years.
The self-reliance image is a terribly deceptive one. Reliance upon telepathy, which makes one acutely impressionable and co-optable by the New Age Luciferian Hierarchy, is what the "self-reliance" scam involves. Succumbing to "imprinting" by discarnates relies on discarnates who are intent on transforming the individual, leading to co-option.
The New Age is not as keen on educating young people as it is in taking them over, having them divorce themselves from their bodies, blank their minds and surrender their bodies, in short, Walk out.
New Age education is portrayed as the "easy way out," whereby it is the ultimate way out. It is the ultimate way of divorcing oneself from oneself.
The New Age "Guide" disclosure reveals why the trend in Outcome Based Education has been de-emphasizing traditional technical learning, while stressing and even mandating cultural attitude programming.
If "education" is purported to be the key to the "new economy," what is New Age job security, possession by "Walk-ins" ? The "Walk-in" not only gets the job, it gets the person's body.
In the 1990's, the insecurity of America's borders is eclipsed by the insecurity of bodies and minds from invasion by Luciferian discarnates.
What about a Group Mind of students who have been taught to accept any sexual life-style and who are relying on each other for things telepathically that not one of them has learned ? What's the answer to that, having an allegedly beneficent "Guide" offer to take over and "Walk-in" to replace a mind whose only skill, a problematic one, is reading the minds of others and who has been left behind in escalating levels of competitive psychic warfare and Hierarchal impression ?
Is telepathy New Age career training ?
Eventually, the human mind which acquires "co-consciousness" with a "spirit guide" and develops thereby telepathic "powers" should realize that the New Age does not plan a long-lasting career for the human with psychic or telepathic powers. Eventually, the human being's mind is scheduled according to the New Age / Masonic Plan to be "disentangled from" the complex telepathic "mental web."
The death of the human mind is on the agenda, to be replaced by a Luciferian spirit which uses the human body to incarnate itself in the flesh.
"... he must slough off his mind that his consciousness may be disentangled from the infinite complex of the mental web ... p. 65 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
p. 65 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
New Age education offers students (of any age) the dubious opportunity to "cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion" where the participant "slays the mind" in the Eastern philosophy. In the Western philosophy New Age education teaches that the mind is a bridge to rejecting itself through a co-operative effort involving spiritistic "illumination" to enable "the perfection of the mind before its rejection."
The 'perfecting' or entrenchment of the "mind" or "consciousness" of a possessing Luciferian spirit in the human body while 'rejecting' one's own mind is spoken of as a 'bridging' process, a cooperative effort.
... bridge to oblivion ...
In the New Age program, how is the human mind made "perfect" ? New Age "traditions" comprise New Age outcome based education. The outcome of the Eastern and Western occult traditions are the same.
What is that outcome ?
The Buddhist priest entering into Nirvana, and the Brahman bridging the chasm between mortal consciousness and samadhi, both cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion; yet without it the very principles upon which they work would be incomprehensible to them. The Eastern mind, endeavoring to annihilate the unreal and mingle itself with the Real, depends first upon the intellect to reveal the processes of illumination and the reasonableness of their abstract conceptions. The Western schools of philosophy differ from the Eastern in the they teach the perfection of the mind before its rejection, whereas the Eastern schools are prone to regard the mind as a hindrance, to be discarded at the very beginning of spiritual growth. Thus the Eastern mystic with his own nature slays the mind, while the Western philosopher, by elevating the mind to a realization of its own insufficiency, causes the intellect voluntarily to offer itself as a willing sacrifice upon the altar of spirit. p. 67 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
The Buddhist priest entering into Nirvana, and the Brahman bridging the chasm between mortal consciousness and samadhi, both cast aside mind as a snare and a delusion; yet without it the very principles upon which they work would be incomprehensible to them. The Eastern mind, endeavoring to annihilate the unreal and mingle itself with the Real, depends first upon the intellect to reveal the processes of illumination and the reasonableness of their abstract conceptions.
The Western schools of philosophy differ from the Eastern in the they teach the perfection of the mind before its rejection, whereas the Eastern schools are prone to regard the mind as a hindrance, to be discarded at the very beginning of spiritual growth. Thus the Eastern mystic with his own nature slays the mind, while the Western philosopher, by elevating the mind to a realization of its own insufficiency, causes the intellect voluntarily to offer itself as a willing sacrifice upon the altar of spirit.
p. 67 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
Luciferian, New Age "spirit" entities.
Astonishingly, in the New Age philosophy, man is his own savior and occult traditions leading to spiritistic illumination form the basis for what is called occult "redemption." The human mind is not saved, however. Personal identity is not saved. The human body is used as a glove for discarnate Luciferian spirits which later move on to another after the human body is worn out and dies.
The Luciferian quest for human bodies comprises the process of occult "salvation."
{Chapter: Illuminated Mind, the Universal Savior} In the secret teachings it is written that mind itself is the Savior-God. Mind is the martyr of the ages, the eternal and universal Prometheus sacrificed upon the altar of human necessity. Mind is the willing sufferer upon the tree. Mind must destroy itself that that which is greater than mind may endure. According to the Mysteries, there comes that time in the quest of consciousness when man discovers the mind to be the slayer of the Real. Then as he sloughs off his evil nature, he must slough off his mind that his consciousness may be disentangled from the infinite complex of the mental web. The mind is incapable of ascending to the state of consciousness. The mind can never completely annihilate the sense of separateness, for it depends upon comparison for its function and differentiation for its very existence. Consequently, though the mind is ever the link between consciousness and unconsciousness, it too must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished. By the death of the mind consciousness is released to complete perfection, but woe unto him who slays the mind without that understanding which must be given out of the Mysteries. The mind must not die until its own work has been completed and its function has reached the highest possible degree of perfection. As the mind increases in power and rationality, it grows gradually to realize that there is something beyond thought. The mind is capable of realizing this power but is never able actually to contact it. There is a supermental state which is synonymous to a certain extent with the causal sphere. The Buddhist sees consciousness as a universal sea. The mind is a bridge connecting consciousness and unconsciousness, but having crossed the bridge, it is left behind, its usefulness past. As a bridge, however, the mind is a vital necessity, and he who depreciates it is as false as he who permits himself to become the servant of its whims. p. 66 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals {SIC}, Manly P. Hall, 1984
{Chapter: Illuminated Mind, the Universal Savior}
In the secret teachings it is written that mind itself is the Savior-God. Mind is the martyr of the ages, the eternal and universal Prometheus sacrificed upon the altar of human necessity. Mind is the willing sufferer upon the tree. Mind must destroy itself that that which is greater than mind may endure.
According to the Mysteries, there comes that time in the quest of consciousness when man discovers the mind to be the slayer of the Real. Then as he sloughs off his evil nature, he must slough off his mind that his consciousness may be disentangled from the infinite complex of the mental web. The mind is incapable of ascending to the state of consciousness.
The mind can never completely annihilate the sense of separateness, for it depends upon comparison for its function and differentiation for its very existence. Consequently, though the mind is ever the link between consciousness and unconsciousness, it too must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished. By the death of the mind consciousness is released to complete perfection, but woe unto him who slays the mind without that understanding which must be given out of the Mysteries.
The mind must not die until its own work has been completed and its function has reached the highest possible degree of perfection. As the mind increases in power and rationality, it grows gradually to realize that there is something beyond thought. The mind is capable of realizing this power but is never able actually to contact it. There is a supermental state which is synonymous to a certain extent with the causal sphere. The Buddhist sees consciousness as a universal sea.
The mind is a bridge connecting consciousness and unconsciousness, but having crossed the bridge, it is left behind, its usefulness past. As a bridge, however, the mind is a vital necessity, and he who depreciates it is as false as he who permits himself to become the servant of its whims.
p. 66 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals {SIC}, Manly P. Hall, 1984
In the New Age program, in what ironic sense is the human mind made "perfect" ?
" The mind must not die until its own work has been completed and its function has reached the highest possible degree of perfection. "
The "perfection" of the human mind functioning as a bridge to it's own destruction while enabling the process of complete possession by a Luciferian spirit is Satan's idea of human perfection, human "salvation."
"The Western schools ... teach the perfection of the mind before its rejection." The "perfection of the mind" is seen in "its function" to accomplish "its own work" to completion, whereupon the "mind must" die. "Its own work" is to serve as a "bridge" which is later "left behind, its usefulness past."
The "perfection" of the human mind is described in it's developing role in performing a co-operative work, a functional role as a "bridge" in achieving the "Great Work" whereby the consciousness of other beings take over and in which the death of the human mind becomes an ultimate objective. "Mind must destroy itself." "The mind ... must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished."
The shaping of the perfect bridge for the destruction of the human mind comprises what is meant in the New Age by "perfection" of the human mind, perfection of it as a functional, perfect tool for it's own destruction. "Complete perfection" goes beyond the human mind's activity as a bridge, "... complete perfection" is achieved "by the death of the mind."
Consequently, ... the mind ... too must be ultimately sacrificed in order that the Great Work be accomplished. By the death of the mind consciousness is released to complete perfection." p. 65 Lectures on Ancient Philosophy: An Introduction To Practical Ideals, Manly P. Hall, 1984
The "consciousness" of the human is "released," but not to life. The occult process results in the "death of the mind." Not only is the human mind said to reach New Age perfection as a "perfect" tool or bridge to it's own destruction, if there is an ultimate "perfection" in conjunction with the human mind after the bridging function is completed, it might be said that the "death of the mind" achieves complete perfection through releasing or getting rid of the human consciousness, which is replaced by the consciousness of a Luciferian spirit.
In the New Age "Great Work", if there is any human consciousness which is "released" in the process of achieving the "death of the mind", human "consciousness is released" or gotten rid of with "complete perfection" with the "death of the mind."
While on the one hand New Age "spiritualism" teaches that the human mind lives on, it is essentially admitted by the New Age scholar Manly P. Hall that the human mind does not or cannot live on by itself,
"Mind must destroy itself that that which is greater than mind may endure"
...and it is this precept upon which Manly Hall's argument is substantially predicated, that a consciousness other than human is to take over the human form, a consciousness which is capable of living on after the death of the human organism, that is, the Luciferian possessing spirit. That is not immortality, friend. It's not your immortality which Freemasonry, witchcraft, spiritualism, or other occult traditions have to offer.
First the initiate Mason or New Ager works towards the destruction of one's own mind, and later the human body dies. In the interim, New Age daemons, Luciferian angels, "Walk-Ins," achieve incarnation in human flesh.
In making another reference to the incapacity of the human mind to be raised above it's own level of mortality, Hall discloses that the Masonic path of initiation involves the human mind only as a link in a chain, with a "spiritual consciousness" (daemon possession) above that level, and Hall speaks of that consciousness (after the death of the human mind and the inhabitation by another "mind") as "capable of remaining in session" after the death of the human body and after it "finally passes back again to the" (Luciferian) "hierarchy from which it came."
The incarnate Luciferian spirits are referred to as "Grand Masters" and Hall reveals that even the Master Mason is unaware that it is the (daemon) Grand Master and not his own consciousness which returns to the spirit realm where the Luciferian spirits or daemonic angels reside.
The universe is divided into planes and these planes are divided from each other by the rates of vibration which pass through them. As the spiritual consciousness progresses through the chain, the lower lose connection with it when it has raised itself above their level, until finally only the Grand Masters are capable of remaining in session, and unknown even to the Master Mason it finally passes back again to the spiritual hierarchy from which it came. p. 36 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976
The universe is divided into planes and these planes are divided from each other by the rates of vibration which pass through them. As the spiritual consciousness progresses through the chain, the lower lose connection with it when it has raised itself above their level, until finally only the Grand Masters are capable of remaining in session, and unknown even to the Master Mason it finally passes back again to the spiritual hierarchy from which it came.
p. 36 The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall., 1923, 1976
Thus, there is a "secret" which Manly P. Hall revealed in writing, which in conjunction with his other revelations demonstrate that the Masonic quest for immortality is a terrible fraud, in that it is not the human being which attains salvation to immortality, it is the human being which is led on in a effort resulting in the destruction of the human mind and in the take-over of the human body by an 'incarnating' Luciferian spirit.
What a terrible ploy !
Willaim Schoebelen has corroborated the demon-possession process as a first degree Illuminati and participating member of the Palladian Rite.
In Freemasonry, as a tool for it's own destruction, the human mind is ironically spoken of as perfecting itself in it's New Age destructive function when said destruction is finally achieved and the Luciferian spirit takes over completely.
When the occult "Great Work" is achieved, it is the Luciferian discarnate spirit which 'perfects' it's own habitation or possession of the human organism in the process in which the Masonic / New Age initiate uses his or her own mind in a cooperative effort to replace one's own consciousness with that of the "illuminating" Luciferian discarnate spirit. Human "evolution to godhood" through occult traditions, is a lie, Lucifer's Lie. The human being is not redeemed from sin and death with occult traditions, the human being is immersed in spiritistic corruption and destroyed. In the Occult Tradition, the human being is not saved, the human mind is destroyed and the human body is later discarded.
Spiritistic illumination is posed in contrast to the human mind which is viewed as developing "realization of its own insufficiency." The Luciferian spirit's consciousness displaces the human mind. Yet in the Eastern occult tradition, the mind is not said to be "perfected" as a bridge to destroy itself as it is in the Western tradition. The route is more direct.
If there is "insufficiency" on the part of the mind of any human beings, it should be noted that sin and human "imperfection" began when Adam and Eve rebelled against their heavenly Father and followed Lucifer. Physical, mental, emotional and other infirmities and sicknesses followed.
Lucifer's New Age plan for education is not to develop the intellect of the human being, but for the human being to "merge" with and develop co-"consciousness" with Luciferian spirits, following a path which leads to the displacement of the human mind with the consciousness of another being, a discarnate associate of Lucifer, one of Satan's "angels." The New Age "Great Work" is to replace the human being.
The New Age education plan is to blank the mind, sacrifice the intellect, cast aside mind, divorce yourself from your body and have a discarnate being replace you in your body. It's a course in becoming a "fleshly glove" for one of Lucifer's "hands."
How can you accept the traditional philosophy of evolution presented through adroit contrivances of logic and simplistic presentations of strata. Do not allow the American or International Masonic establishment to play games with the clear perception of intelligence manifest in even the single operating living cell through presenting a materialistic interpretation; and then later, when faith in God, the Creator who is a Spirit, is shaken, to allow oneself to be lead on a counterfeit path of "evolution" to "godhood" under the auspices of Luciferian spirits.
Examination of the occult conspiracy using it's own sources reveals the plan to destroy the human race and to use human bodies as biological extensions of Luciferian, New Age spirits.
The progress and security of the individual and of the human race is not dependant upon developing "psychic" powers. It is the destruction of the individual and ultimately of the human race which is set in motion by adopting, rather than resisting, such a link to daemonic spirits. With psychic practices, such as so-called "mind-reading," Lucifer has his foot in the door of the practitioner's mind. Lucifer doesn't only want the door.
The realm of telepathy represents a deceptive world of Hierarchical impression, "masking the intent," giving false impressions of a person's thoughts, wherein Luciferian entities wield the capacity of impressing thoughts such that the object or target could mistakenly assume that the impressed thoughts originate with oneself. It is not a world to enter, it is dangerous beyond comprehension, and it represents powers which one would not want to make oneself vulnerable to through drugs, alcohol, or mystical meditative techniques.
Taking credit illegitimately is also seen in a New Age guide allegation about inventions.
The assertion that spirits have implanted many of the ideas that inspire inventors and writers would explain why the U.S. Patent Office frequently receives applications for almost identical inventions at the same time, although the inventors are unknown to each other, and why books on the same subject, that was previously untouched, achieve publication simultaneously. These may not be examples of pirating, as is sometimes charged, but of clear channel "receiving" from discarnates. p. 72 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
The assertion that spirits have implanted many of the ideas that inspire inventors and writers would explain why the U.S. Patent Office frequently receives applications for almost identical inventions at the same time, although the inventors are unknown to each other, and why books on the same subject, that was previously untouched, achieve publication simultaneously. These may not be examples of pirating, as is sometimes charged, but of clear channel "receiving" from discarnates.
Not examples of pirating ? Spirit guides are no doubt not the only ones who would like to take credit, not only for Moses, but for many inventions. 'Remote viewing" and "mind-reading" have a long history, one which the authors of The Warrior's Edge would evidently like to expand upon.
Applications of remote viewing to industrial espionage are not unthinkable. If remote viewing were used during early research and development phases, the target company would be without even the hypothetical protection of patent application. These ethical difficulties are not unlike those involved with the introduction of any other new, invasive technology. Ethical issues of remote viewing will be settled on an ad-hoc basis by practitioners, whether or not a consensus of behavior eventually evolves. p. 154 The Warrior's Edge, Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, 1990
Applications of remote viewing to industrial espionage are not unthinkable. If remote viewing were used during early research and development phases, the target company would be without even the hypothetical protection of patent application.
These ethical difficulties are not unlike those involved with the introduction of any other new, invasive technology. Ethical issues of remote viewing will be settled on an ad-hoc basis by practitioners, whether or not a consensus of behavior eventually evolves.
p. 154 The Warrior's Edge,
That New Age spirits, not to mention Ted Turner, would like to see a New Age President, is obvious. Evidence indicates that it has already taken place. What about the plan to have a "Walk-in" as a U.S. President ? It probably is true that not all politicians are interested in divorcing themselves from their bodies by "walking-out." However, in the Masonic tradition the process of greater levels of impression leading to "godhood" is called "evolution."
The "Walk-in" path appears to be somewhat of an "Eastern philosophy" version in that there is no pretense of developing one's own mind, whereas the American Masonic doctrine of "evolution to godhood" represents Western occult philosophical tradition.
The proliferation of New Age techniques in the classroom, at work, etc., has often put the individual or the family at a disadvantage. Having some advance knowledge of the crafty and deceptive techniques used to "repackage" or camouflage hidden New Age dangers could equip a person to escape capture.
Who do you think are the "rulers of the darkness of this world" ? Do you think you can fight evil by resorting to occult powers such as witchcraft ? Do you think fighting against "spiritual wickedness" can be achieved by adopting the powers of "spiritual wickedness" ? In witchcraft and Freemasonry the candidates are adopted by Lucifer, symbolized by the "cable-tow" placed around the neck. Your children may have seen such a cable tow placed around the neck of a child in the PBS 'spiritualistic' program "Ghost Writer."
Your children might be imitating such traditions and behavior without your knowledge, even without officially joining a witchcraft or Masonic organization. America's children are learning to solve problems with the aid of New Age spirit guides, right on PBS public television !
According to New Age leader Alice Bailey, the pursuit of telepathic powers draws a person into a vortex of "spiritual" energies, wherein "spiritual" is identified in the New Age as associated with Lucifer, Satan, the Saturnian spirit.
Resisting evil includes not resorting to evil. Resisting the New Age imposition of occult initiation and resisting participation in developing psychic powers brings "the whole armor of God" into sharp focus. Developing spiritual strength, not spiritualistic power, paves the road to eternal life.
The "evil days" are presented by New Age spirit guides as those which they can aid the world to avert by mass "stepping up that process" of "Walking-in." It is more accurate to say that the "walking-in" process represents preparation for bringing about "the evil days" of Karma Clause, and the en masse wielding of satanic forces and "energies."
"They are all around you, and will soon become more apparent as the world recognizes the need for rapidly stepping up that process [walking-in] in preparation for the evil days of the next decade ... They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long, as an essential step in recognizing the work that will have to be done rapidly and well." p. 121, 122 {original author's rectangular brackets [walking-in]} Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
p. 121, 122 {original author's rectangular brackets [walking-in]}
Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery, 1979
"They will be declaring themselves publicly before too long."
{Spirit Guide automatic writing quote:} "Wait until that person is ready to reveal himself, for the time will not be far off when they will be accepted as valuable contributors to the community, and honored as such. Their present need is for privacy to prevent witchhunts or crude remarks while they go about the important tasks they chose of their own free will." p. 125 Strangers Among Us: Enlightened Beings from A World to Come, Ruth Montgomery,1979
"Wait until that person is ready to reveal himself, for the time will not be far off when they will be accepted as valuable contributors to the community, and honored as such. Their present need is for privacy to prevent witchhunts or crude remarks while they go about the important tasks they chose of their own free will."
The plot put in writing by a New Age spirit guide about "Walk-ins" comports with the revelations by New Age leader Alice Bailey (who also was directed by a "spirit guide"), and her 33rd degree Masonic husband, Foster.
It is only in the later stages, and when the time has come or the return into recognised physical expression of the Christ, leading to the definite restoration of the Mysteries, that certain of the senior Members of the Hierarchy will appear and take outer and recognisable physical control of world affairs. p. 570 The Externalisation of the Hierarchy, Alice A .Bailey, 1957, 1985
It is only in the later stages, and when the time has come or the return into recognised physical expression of the Christ, leading to the definite restoration of the Mysteries, that certain of the senior Members of the Hierarchy will appear and take outer and recognisable physical control of world affairs.
p. 570 The Externalisation of the Hierarchy, Alice A .Bailey, 1957, 1985
That Illuminati, including those who have "walked-in," are anticipated to be honored publicly by New Age constituency, according to the New Age conspiracy, pertains to the restoration of the spiritistic mysteries in the public domain.
When however the Mysteries are restored, and Masonry resumes its true function, the G.M. will also resume his ancient prerogatives, for he will be chosen for his initiate rank, and that involves initiate knowledge. He will be restored to his ancient status, and his right to authority will be recognized. p. 79 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
When however the Mysteries are restored, and Masonry resumes its true function, the G.M. will also resume his ancient prerogatives, for he will be chosen for his initiate rank, and that involves initiate knowledge. He will be restored to his ancient status, and his right to authority will be recognized.
p. 79 The Spirit of Masonry, Foster Bailey, 1957
Fellow Thirty Third Degree Mason with Manly P. Hall, Foster Bailey (husband of New Age leader and spirit channeler Alice Bailey) has revealed the "true function" of "Masonry" and of the ancient "Mysteries," to rule mankind through leaders who are initiate "Grand Masters," incarnate spirits, Luciferian hierarchical incarnations.
The initiate Grand Master (G.M.) is distinguished from and above the initiate Master Mason, even as Manly P. Hall made the distinction, as noted earlier in this chapter.
The plan of the Illuminati, the "builders of the occult tradition" who facilitate occult or mystical "initiation" pertains to the "externalization of that inner group," and embodies the "whole fabric of Masonry." The "externalization" of the Hierarchy through human bodies and through an overt, occult government is the plan of the Illuminati, who "are called by many names," including "Walk-ins."
Teaching mystical techniques in the public schools serves the interests of 'restoring' the "Mysteries" of spiritualistic mystery religion. The elitist Governor's School in Arkansas sponsored by the Clintons and it's 'divorcing oneself from one's body' mystical technique has evidently served the purpose toward that Hierarchical goal.
Charges
The testimony rendered has provided the basis for the following brief summaries or charges to indict the participants in support of the occult tradition or conspiracy.
Adam Weishaupt for establishing a secret network of conspirators whose objective it is to "de-Christianize the masses" and to "in silence, possess themselves of the government of the State."
Adam Weishaupt for conspiring to implement "pious frauds" in obscuring an evil agenda of an occult Empire. Adam Weishaupt for setting in motion a secret organization dedicated to "monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers."
The Bilderberger Group for convening secret meetings encompassing "political, financial and media spheres" for the purpose of conspiring to fulfill collaborative agenda intent on subverting the sovereignty of duly established Constitutional national States, in alignment with the Masonic conspiracy
Bill Clinton as a New Age agent for establishing The Governor's School in which students have been taught dangerous New Age technique to "divorce" themselves from their "bodies" and in which young people's traditional values have been undermined by an elitist program subverting Judeo-Christian moral values.
Giuseppe Mazzini for "forging the union of masonry throughout the world to destroy the church itself as a spiritual power" to achieve the "de-Christianizing of the masses." Giuseppe Mazzini for founding the Mafia which has been a principle purveyor of moral and political corruption.
Albert Pike as the Sovereign Pontiff of Lucifer for co-founding the Klu Klux Klan. Albert Pike for instituting the horrible "supreme rite" of the Palladium to preside over Freemasonry and for re-writing the oaths of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite to provide for an ascension of degrees structured to obstruct and pervert justice and providing for the swearing of individuals to be subject of the edicts of a secret Supreme Council operating acting in concert with spiritistic luciferians.
José Argüelles as a New Age agent and "leading spokesman for the principles of ... awakened warriorship" in the context of providing for a "dynamic agent of planetary transformation" in promoting "surrender" to New Age forces, for promoting "receptivity" to telepathic control by New Age forces, for working "to create the foundation for the new order" of New Age spirit guides, for working for the end of Homo sapiens, the human race, and for working for "a massive imprinting" or occult initiation.
Colonel John B. Alexander, Major Richard Groller, Janet Morris, for promoting New Age warriorship, psychic warfare, with "ruthlessness and duplicity" in the public domain.
Ruth Montgomery for promoting New Age "Walk-ins" "entering directly into human bodies" subverting the human race.
Michael Howard for promoting the Great White Brotherhood of occult adepts and occult tradition.
Foster Bailey as an agent of the Masonic work of psychic impression and for promoting that work inside and outside of the Masonic Lodge in collusion with the New Age spirit guides of Freemasonry.
Bishop Charles W. Leadbeater for promoting the Masonic Machine and union with Luciferian angels and for promoting sharing in the work of Luciferian angels "so that the machine as a whole may act at it's highest efficiency."
W.L. Wilmshurst for promoting flooding of the individual's consciousness with Masonic spiritualistic illumination and associated thorough permeation of the brain-mind.
Russell Targ and Keith Harary for promoting psychic impression compliance in the public domain and for promoting persons to follow an urge to drive in a particular direction without thought or analysis, to "Just drive."
Meditation Magazine for advancing "coordinating networking," to link New Age groups to further the New Age agenda, thereby promoting telepathic communication and control and a state of surrender and for promoting the re-packaging of occult spiritual traditions for the New Age new order.
New Age Ramification Scenarios
In a scenario, consider what a New Age implemented national health care program could result in for Americans. The implementation of "inner self" yoga or other mystical techniques in which one "wields" the "seething energies of Lucifer" and which puts one on a path for acute impression and take-over by the Luciferian Hierarchy could conceivably be made compulsory in a national program employing an effort of fiscal justification by citing reduced costs to the health care program.
The imposing national debt could play a decisive fiscal role in limiting medicare services, paving the way for New Age politicians or administrators to argue that money could be saved with a "serpent bite to the brain," although they might use more euphemistic language. America's fiscal crisis could be used as a precipitator for a New Age health care system, for medicare or otherwise, in which persons might be given the choice to get "occultly saved" or die.
Under the Clinton health care proposals a national health care system was envisioned in which services and/or medications otherwise legally available could have or would have been made illegal if "red-lined" as no longer available under new fiscal or other guidelines, and infractions would have been criminally sanctionable.
The American people rejected the plan understanding the track record of the federal government running large programs, and understanding the potential for increased taxes and the potential for losing choice in a proposed system overseen by contemplated secret committees with potentate administrative powers. Can you fathom the consequences of having New Age administrators in any health care system ? The plan to usher in a "Golden Age" of Luciferian discarnates has many supporting agendas.
The "It's the economy, stupid" issue as jobs are exported overseas has stolen the limelight while New Age spirits are imported into American bodies. How can there be such a thing as job security when Americans are losing their body security at work and in public schools ? How can Americans speak of losing job security to foreigners when Luciferian entities are clandestinely sponsored in corporations to take over American minds and bodies, essentially taking over also their jobs, as it were ?
While New Age "mind-readers" might say that they "can feel your pain," the New Age movement is maneuvering to have a "Walk-in" to take over and experience your pleasure. And what about Ted Turner's advocacy for a "New Age President" ? In practice that could be like getting two for one, three for one, one for all and all for one, a Group Mind, of discarnates and "Walk-ins" in the White House.
In practice, the "two for one" Presidential term which America has experienced with Bill and Hillary Clinton resulted in the greatest effort to co-opt America's health care system under one umbrella, a federal one, which would have had the force of law and which was envisioned to be presided over by secret committees and which has already involved unconstitutional secret meetings in its formulation in which a federal judge had to intervene.
The governance by secret committees represents an expression of Oligarchical rulership, and the consequence of "re-inventing" government in contempt of the U.S. Constitution. The very appointment of Bill Clinton's spouse to a role of oversight comparable to, if not also exceeding that of some of the White House Cabinet member's has circumvented the expressed prohibition enunciated in the U.S. Constitution pertaining to a President's spouse. Considering that a second term for President Clinton could involve appointing 25% of America's life-term federal judges and another Supreme Court Justice, there are strong indications that America is facing a multi-faceted crisis.
The "two-for-one" health care plan was washed away with a 1994 tsunami, along with many supporting Democrats. Bill and Hillary Clinton's "Big Government" would have embodied rulership by the few --- oligarchy. Bill Clinton's subsequent expression that the "era of Big Government is over" is not reassuring coming from a Bilderberger, a member of an elite group of powerful insiders working for the establishment of an elite oligarchical rulership operating in America and abroad.
A "Big Government" can be exercised by the few, and that is in substance what oligarchical rulership means. Clinton's Big Government health care system was to be controlled by a few -- a secret panel. Staff reductions in government or in corporations don't necessarily mean that the respective institution is getting less powerful, less "Big."
Personnel reduction efforts in government or in corporate America need to be watched carefully considering that there are corporate and government institutions which are either making New Age courses or training compulsory or offering them on some other basis. Selective firing practices could result in a higher concentration of New Age staff in government or corporations. It would be disastrous to "re-invent" and "prune" America's government bureaucracies to yield a New Age configuration.
"The era of Big Government is over" declaration by President Clinton is an intriguing statement, not only retrospectively in view of the Clinton/Democrat Plan and Party defeat underwritten by American citizens as evident in the 1994 election sponsored coup, but prospectively considering that a financial collapse of Social Security and/or Medicare within a decade could take place due to the Clinton administration's deficit and Entitlement policies and political gamesmanship.
Through failure to balance the federal budget and inadequately modify Entitlement policies the Clinton administration could be setting the American people up for the collapse of aspects of so-called "Big Government" (whether administered federally or by the states) which Americans have invested in for themselves and their communities and rightfully expect services from.
The fallout could result in a number of scenarios, including the formulation of a drastically "revised" version of Social Security and Medicare, whereby it cannot be excluded that public outcry could bring such a revamped program under federal auspices (if the Democrat Party has the effective political majority), and possibly under some form of autocratic administration such as the Clintons have envisioned at the outset.
The "Big Government is over" statement contains not only ironical aspects, but could be laden with meaning such that it could have a sinister punch line upon the bankruptcy of Social Security, which Congress has been pillaging to service the preponderant national debt incurred by the administrations of Presidents Reagan and Bush and Democrat Congresses.
Fiscal collapse of Social Security could put increasing pressure ("pain and pressure") on the Entitlement package on the whole, whereby pressure to modify Medicare could be opportunistic so as to enable the inclusion of New Age mystical techniques to decrease expenses while expanding the New Age agenda and doing so on a possibly compulsory basis.
The 1994 failure of the Clinton Plan respecting the co-option of America's health care by secret panel has not ended a growing crisis for the American people.
The Republican plan of "Devolving" more powers to the states is not insurance against oligarchical rulership but could very well result in the empowered proliferation of examples such as found in Oregon, where health-care red-lining of medical procedures and laws tying compulsory state directed education in with hiring practices could do on a state-by-state basis what Clinton has not been able to do in large measure at the federal level.
New Age conquests in society might actually obtain greater strides on a state-by-state campaign when compared to having to mount a national effort which might be opposed by the American people in general. As more persons are absorbed into the New Age movement, precedences in states such as Oregon could be adopted regionally.
Then there is the threat that New Age practices could become an obligatory part of health insurance corporations. As the New Age movement increases momentum, will America's senior citizens be given the option to "divorce" themselves from their bodies" in lieu of hospitalization ? Will our elderly ones be offered mystical trances instead of life saving or pain mitigating tablets ? Will identity checks be as common as blood-pressure checks ? Will "Walk-in" clinics be set up for persons who are pressured to "Walk-out" because insurance companies continue to cut services and payments to doctors ?
While persons underneath the Masonic umbrella may gravitate toward apparently competing camps more aligned with personal preference, advantages, interests or personal beliefs, hasn't the Masonic Machine demonstrated a capacity to achieve it's goals step by step by means of competing political camps ? Yet, that the America people had a voice in stifling Clinton's health take-over Plan was evident in the 1994 election.
The New Age agenda is political, social, financial and religious, and has been able to operate with net gains in an atmosphere of two "competing" political parties. The Masonic Machine has many compartments, even a separate one for blacks, while maintaining the KKK and the majority of Lodges in America for whiles only.
The two competing political parties in America have provided a great deal of gridlock in long failing to achieve important and necessary changes in insurance, tax reform, and other public interest legislation. "Order out of chaos" has been heavy on the chaos leading to the New Order.
New age issues are themselves scattered on the field of confusion. White supremacy is a New Age doctrine, enunciated by Helena Blavatsky. The KKK was co-founded by Luciferian Albert Pike. At the opposite pole the black separatist movement in America is also involved in the New Age.
The New Age spirit guides have indeed clearly defined the meaning of the term "hate group" of exceeding "intolerance," and have done so by the declarations of Lord Maitreya, spirit guides Asher and Alder, and others. The New Age "Saturnian spirit" or "Satan" wields the "Law" of the New Age. It is a law of victimization. "Celebrating diversity" in the New Age translates to celebrating the moral corruption of homosexuality, and celebrating the spiritual corruption of spirit mediumship and "divorcing {one}self from {one's} body."
Persons who are tempted to take up psychic practices to fight the New Age cannot do so without compromising themselves, for they would become acutely vulnerable to Hierarchical impression and deception and "spontaneous" psychic experiences, if not also becoming part of the New Age pool of human hosts for co-option.
The New Age / Masonic Plan to "externalize" the Luciferian "Hierarchy" in the bodies of initiates is not limited to "fringe" activities of secret society members. The diabolical "Plan" involves an agenda of "massive imprinting" of humanity through an assortment of New Age organizations, including overt as well as camouflaged techniques.
The extermination of the human race and the incarnation of daemonic beings intent on using human flesh as "gloves" represents the New Age / Masonic agenda, as demonstrated through the writings of Masonic scholars, New Age leaders and their "spirit guides."
You can also understand what underlying subversive philosophy has been perpetrated by a Masonic establishment in America and internationally. The deceptive philosophical precept that humans can "evolve" to godhood conceptually disguises the actual "New Age" or Masonic process in which the human being's own consciousness is progressively replaced by that of a Luciferian being (daemon).
Examine the Illuminati/Masonic links to the development of the theory of evolution. The theory of evolution is in reality more of a "specious" teaching than a "species" teaching. The theory of evolution does not have as much a preponderance of evidence as it does a preponderance of support from a Masonic establishment. As was recently admitted (April, 1998) on the PBS Lehrer News Hour by a prominent evolutionist on an elite panel seeking to enforce the teaching of evolution in all of America's public schools, many scientists holding to the theory of evolution are really quite "spiritual."
What that essentially translates to is that the evolutionist was referring to persons who are not materialist atheists. Indeed, one of the traditional requirements for a man to become a Mason is belief in a supreme being.
The very same Lehrer New Hour program just referred to had as it's concluding segment a discussion with an author promoting spiritualism. Even if the two segments were not "orchestrated" to be aired on the same program, the Masonic / New Age Media Machine has acted "in concert" with the New Age / spiritualistic agenda on a substantial scale, right down to the PBS "spirit guide" program for children known as "Ghost Writer."
New Age organizations are promoting psychic cells or groups of persons to "network" with other similar groups. In the name of "peace" individuals are surrendering their consciousness to the daemonic, Luciferian spirits which have been the driving forces behind Mazzini's Illuminated three world war Plan, and numerous bloody revolutions. The New Age "surrender" to the New Age spirit guides is configuring the destruction of the human race in America and internationally. You see, when persons are conditioned to experience the thoughts of others through so-called psychic powers, they are conditioned to have their brains used as biological vessels for mental imprinting.
Knight Templar and Palladian Rite Illuminatus William Schnoebelen and others have written of the pursuit in occult circles of experiencing the consciousness of Lucifer or other spirit entities who are viewed as "gods" which imbue their "hosts" with qualities of theirs, with the additional objective of leaving the subject transformed even when not in an ongoing state of possession.
The preponderant imprinting, thought impression, or take-over of a human being by a New Age entity is the ultimate objective of Masonic, New Age initiations or so-called New Age "evolution." One of the expressions which have emerged in the New Age movement for a full-fledged incarnation of a New Age "spirit guide" is that of "a Walk-In."
While somewhat descriptive, it represents somewhat of a slang expression and such expressions often serve to desensitize persons to the import of what is at issue, which in the case of a "Walk-In" is the daemon possession of a human being. What is at issue is the alienation of human beings, step by step, degree by degree.
What is at issue is the Weishauptian occult conspiracy, spawned on foreign soil, a convergence of occult traditions and agenda represented by the Knights Templar, Rosicrucians, and other ancient occult so-called "wisdom."
Index
Chapter 11
