# AMERICA'S SUBVERSION The Enemy Within: Chapter 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/america_subversion/america_subversion02.htm

Chapter 2
The Plan Is Hatched
In the atmosphere of having Germany's sovereignty restored to it after more than four decades of Allied "occupation" and amid the jubilation of seeing democracy rise up in the DDR (the so-called German Democratic Republic or "East Germany") with a climactic dismantling of the Berlin Wall, East and West Germany engaged in a process of national re-unification and German politicians were heard to repeat a reference to two world wars and that no more would war go forth from German ground.
Recalling that nearly a half a century of democratic rule presided in West Germany, Germany's European neighbors who had twice experienced "war from German ground" were to be reassured.
The very manner of warfare of the Third Reich became a prominent issue after the war, inasmuch as the methods of warfare against it's very own citizens on German soil included disenfranchisement of human rights, disenfranchisement of citizenship, and methodical economic, legal and physical extermination. Self-preservation and escape were eventually denied for the Jews, as they were in the course of disenfranchisement even prohibited "legally" from using public transportation.
It was the German government which acted criminally by enacting laws prohibiting Jews from legitimate means of self-preservation in the face of an expanding national evil and including means of escaping the systematic disenfranchisement and destruction of the Jewish people. Later, the Berlin Wall was Eric Honecker's monument to East Germany's version of how a state becomes the enemy of the human rights government should protect, and how it criminalizes the self-evident human right to escape tyranny.
When an international accounting for crimes perpetrated against humanity arrived the public was largely unaware, however, due to British suppression of vital and self-implicating information during the Nuremberg (Nürnberg) trials, that the Third Reich had engaged in sinister methods of occult warfare beyond the means of media propaganda or military hardware.
The implication that military warfare is the only means of conquest might not necessarily have been inherent in the words of President von Weizäcker when stating that no more would war go forth from German ground as it had done twice, but in his statement Dr. von Weizäcker excluded reference to clandestine revolution, and to occult warfare and subversion emerging from German ground about the time of America's founding as a Constitutional democracy. On May 1, 1776 a man by the name of Adam Weishaupt established a secret Order in Bavaria and put in motion plans for a New World Order.
Although it can be said that the secret society Order founded by Adam Weishaupt in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, was outlawed by Bavarian authorities following it's discovery and investigation, it can also be said that the inimical seed founded in that land had in a short time proliferated, and spread it's doctrines and methods while obtaining thousands of adherents across Europe. The already existing expansive and treacherous organizational vehicle which Weishaupt's evil Order would infiltrate, use and guide was founded only a few decades earlier in England, and has been known as Freemasonry.
Political and religious intrigue, world revolution, subversion and espionage would embrace the support of an evil empire of occult adepts to reconfigure the political and religious face of the world. Emerging from the Weishaupt conspiracy, a plan for three world wars was put to writing. Twice has world war come forth from German ground from which the conspiracy took root and spread, yet perhaps more surprisingly, from Sarajevo to Hirohito's Japan, the fingerprints of Weishaupt's co-opted international secret society can been seen to have instigated and facilitated world war which, itself, would serve as means to an end.
The conquests were designed to be achieved, not only by military means, but by subversion and the application of evil, occult forces. Examine the methods of subversion by Adam Weishaupt which became known to the public, and in a succession of chapters learn of the evil methods evidently available to him and occult adepts which heretofore have essentially been successfully concealed but which are in use today to subvert God-given human rights.
The Illuminati
On May 1, 1776 the Western World, ruled by monarchies and the "Church," had officially born to it by a professor of canon law in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, an occult political and religious Order dedicated to the subversion of existing political powers and the corruption of leaders which would render them particularly vulnerable to behind-the-scenes influences. The goal was to establish a New World Order ruled by an occult Hierarchy. The objective of occult secret societies to wrest the reigns of power from monarchies and from secularized nominally Christian hierarchies obtained an elite organizational means with the formation of the Order of the Illuminati.
On May 1, 1776 the Western World, ruled by monarchies and the "Church," had officially born to it by a professor of canon law in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, an occult political and religious Order dedicated to the subversion of existing political powers and the corruption of leaders which would render them particularly vulnerable to behind-the-scenes influences.
The goal was to establish a New World Order ruled by an occult Hierarchy. The objective of occult secret societies to wrest the reigns of power from monarchies and from secularized nominally Christian hierarchies obtained an elite organizational means with the formation of the Order of the Illuminati.
The leaders of the movement would embark upon a program of espionage and operate behind the scenes to bring about world change. Corruption of religious and secular leaders and corruption of the masses was clearly outlined as modus operandi. The sinister plan for a one-world occult government received it's inspiration from an age-old source.
Weishaupt, the Order's founder, studied the ancient pagan religions and was recruited into "Illuminism," Luciferic inspiration or mental "Illumination" through ancient Egyptian Mystery religion, by a Jutland merchant searching Europe for converts.
Egyptian occultism provided the fundamental principle for Weishaupt's evil plan, and for the world's most powerful occult organization.
Weishaupt ... was indoctrinated in Egyptian occultism in 1771 by a merchant ... named Kolmer, who was said to have traveled Europe in search of converts. For the next five years Weishaupt formulated a plan by which all occult systems could be reduced to a single, powerful organization. On May Day, 1776, Weishaupt launched his Order of the Illuminati. p.69 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
Weishaupt ... was indoctrinated in Egyptian occultism in 1771 by a merchant ... named Kolmer, who was said to have traveled Europe in search of converts. For the next five years Weishaupt formulated a plan by which all occult systems could be reduced to a single, powerful organization. On May Day, 1776, Weishaupt launched his Order of the Illuminati.
p.69 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
"Illuminism" would become the guiding principle of Europe's occult conspiratorial intellectualism.
According to Barruel, the doctrines of Illuminism came to Europe from Egypt through a Jutland merchant. {footnote} p. 29 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 , 1989, 1994
According to Barruel, the doctrines of Illuminism came to Europe from Egypt through a Jutland merchant. {footnote}
p. 29 Behind the Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, 1988 , 1989, 1994
Mental "illumination" by occult powers formed the cornerstone for the structure of Weishaupt's subversive society. The powerful, occult organization which Weishaupt formed for world conquest did not arise in a vacuum, for it obtained strength and momentum in a milieu of secret occult societies which had designs on church and state. It was upon the doctrines and practices of a spectrum of such secret associations which he drew, and Weishaupt's master design which incorporated methods of existing subversive associations rapidly spread in Europe.
{Illuminati} The Order was at first very popular, and enrolled no less than two thousand names upon its registers, among whom were some of the most distinguished men of Germany. It extended rapidly into other countries, and its Lodges were to be found in France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, and Italy. Mackey's Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, p. 346-347 as Quoted from En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, p. 108
{Illuminati}
The Order was at first very popular, and enrolled no less than two thousand names upon its registers, among whom were some of the most distinguished men of Germany. It extended rapidly into other countries, and its Lodges were to be found in France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, and Italy.
Mackey's Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, p. 346-347
as Quoted from En Route to Global Occupation, Gary H. Kah, p. 108
The "ultimate secret society" in which "all occult systems could be reduced to a single, powerful organization" would secure it's power base of political influence by operating within other pagan and occult organizations such as Freemasonry which enjoyed a growing influential membership.
The Illuminati would operate,
"by secret associations, which will by degrees, and in silence, possess themselves of the government of the States..." p. 106 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"by secret associations, which will by degrees, and in silence, possess themselves of the government of the States..."
p. 106 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
The process of subversion: infiltration and influence.
As a student he {Weishaupt} had drafted the constitution for a secret society modelled on the pagan Mystery schools but it was not until he was initiated into Freemasonry that Weishaupt's plan for the ultimate secret society was spawned.
On 1 May 1776 Weishaupt ... Within a short period of time the Illuminists had lodges all over Germany and Austria, and branches of the Order were founded in Italy, Hungary, France, and Switzerland. Weishaupt conducted a secret operation to infiltrate Masonic lodges and established a power base within Continental Freemasonry as part of his long-term plan to use his secret society for political change in Europe. p. 62... The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
On 1 May 1776 Weishaupt ... Within a short period of time the Illuminists had lodges all over Germany and Austria, and branches of the Order were founded in Italy, Hungary, France, and Switzerland. Weishaupt conducted a secret operation to infiltrate Masonic lodges and established a power base within Continental Freemasonry as part of his long-term plan to use his secret society for political change in Europe.
p. 62... The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
The principle secret society which Weishaupt would infiltrate with his own intellectuals and professionals was that of Freemasonry which had spread over Europe from England. As a ready-made host organization having a structure of secrecy and occult, astrological roots, Freemasonry already enjoyed a professional and aristocratic membership.
In an environment of existing lodges with persons having positions of influence, the media establishment, as it was known at the time, was targeted as a means to influence the public in accord with the interests and objectives of persons operating behind the scenes in an occult conspiracy for world conquest.
{Illuminati} "The great strength of our Order lies in its concealment; let it never appear in any place in its own name, but always covered by another name, and another occupation. None is fitter than the three lower degrees of Free Masonry; the public is accustomed to it, expects little from it, and therefore takes little notice of it. Next to this, the form of a learned or literary society is best suited to our purpose, and had Free Masonry not existed, this cover would have been employed; and it may be much more than a cover, it may be a powerful engine in our hands. By establishing reading societies, and subscription libraries, and taking these under our direction, and supplying them through our labours, we may turn the public mind which way we will.
"The great strength of our Order lies in its concealment; let it never appear in any place in its own name, but always covered by another name, and another occupation. None is fitter than the three lower degrees of Free Masonry; the public is accustomed to it, expects little from it, and therefore takes little notice of it. Next to this, the form of a learned or literary society is best suited to our purpose, and had Free Masonry not existed, this cover would have been employed; and it may be much more than a cover, it may be a powerful engine in our hands.
By establishing reading societies, and subscription libraries, and taking these under our direction, and supplying them through our labours, we may turn the public mind which way we will.
In like manner we must try to obtain an influence in the military academies (this may be of mighty consequence) the printing-houses, booksellers shops, chapters, and in short in all offices which have any effect, either in forming, or in managing, or even in directing the mind of man: painting and engraving are highly worth our care."
"Could our Prefect (observe it is to the Illuminati Regentes he is speaking, whose officers are Prefecti) fill the judicatories of a state with our worthy members, he does all that man can do for the Order. It is better than to gain the Prince himself. p. 112 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"Could our Prefect (observe it is to the Illuminati Regentes he is speaking, whose officers are Prefecti) fill the judicatories of a state with our worthy members, he does all that man can do for the Order. It is better than to gain the Prince himself.
p. 112 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
The Illuminati keenly targeted influencing the distribution of information. The press in combination with the "arts" today comprises the substance of what is loosely called "the media." The "press" as expressed through the printed page, radio and the medium of television assumes a public role of a "learned or literary society" in presenting and interpreting events. "... it may be a powerful engine in our hands" implies more than a role of conspiratorial silence, but one of influence and manipulation of the public.
Specifically targeting the administration of justice for subversion, "the judicatories," encompassing judges and courts of law, describes one of the most chilling components of the conspiracy.
A particularly broad base of society was targeted for recruitment into the Order. The Order {the Illuminati} enticed into its lodges only those who could be useful:
"Statesmen, ...counsellors, secretaries...professors, abbes, preceptors, physicians, and apothecaries are always welcome candidates to the Order." p. 31 Behind The Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, obtained from Barruel, vol.4, p. 233 Abbé Augusten de Barruel, Memoirs Illustrating The History Of Jacobinism
"Statesmen, ...counsellors, secretaries...professors, abbes, preceptors, physicians, and apothecaries are always welcome candidates to the Order."
p. 31 Behind The Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, obtained from Barruel, vol.4, p. 233
Abbé Augusten de Barruel, Memoirs Illustrating The History Of Jacobinism
The Illuminist plot has targeted not only principals in positions of power, but support staff, as well as persons in fields of education and medicine.
World conquest by operating in secret to achieve political and media control has been greatly facilitated by the lodges of Freemasonry whose influential members are sworn to secrecy and mutual assistance.
{forward by the publisher} Weishaupt ... devised an ingenious vehicle for world conquest -- a secret Order. He called it the Illuminati Order and grafted it, at selected points, onto Freemasonry -- like a fungus.
{forward by the publisher}
Weishaupt ... devised an ingenious vehicle for world conquest -- a secret Order. He called it the Illuminati Order and grafted it, at selected points, onto Freemasonry -- like a fungus.
But because the Illuminati used parts of Freemasonry as a cover, Robison found it necessary to explain how and why this state of affairs came about. Thus, the first part of the book deals with Freemasonry and provides an examination of the Masonic movement in the places and at the time the Illuminati Order came into being.
It was in this lodge -- to which Weishaupt belonged -- that the Illuminati Order was organized by him as a secret organization within a secret organization. It took a number of years before the existence of this secret society within a secret society came to light.
In the third chapter of the book ... Robison attempts to reveal how after the Bavarian Court of Enquiry exposed and banned the illuminati Order and its leaders, the Order went underground and emerged as a network of Reading Societies throughout Germany. The goal of this literary network was to monopolize the writing, publication, reviewing and distribution of all literature, more effectively to control the minds of the readers. In this chapter, one sees more clearly than ever how the conspiracy used the printed word as its ultimate weapon in subverting the minds of the people.
But most important is the revelation that this was a conspiracy conceived, organized, and activated by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil; a conspiracy conceived not by Masons as Masons, but by evil men using Freemasonry as a vehicle for their own purposes. p. foreword - 6, by the publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798,
But most important is the revelation that this was a conspiracy conceived, organized, and activated by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil; a conspiracy conceived not by Masons as Masons, but by evil men using Freemasonry as a vehicle for their own purposes.
p. foreword - 6, by the publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798,
An occult elite, an intellectual elite, conspired to control the flow of information, to influence the reviewing and distribution of all literature. A principle weapon to subvert the human mind was, in Weishaupt's revealed writings, the printed word. Although an effective "weapon" yet today, the "ultimate" weapons prove much more sinister, as "America's Subversion: The Enemy Within" goes on to reveal.
The method Weishaupt used in operating a secret Order within a larger secret organization had been a method familiar to the occult Rosicrucians. The secret order of the Rosy Cross is associated in it's European establishment with it's legendary German founder Christian Rosenkreutz whose teachings derived from a host of occult traditions including Egyptian mystery religion. Astrology, the teaching of re-incarnation, and the craft of "transmutation" have been essential to Rosicrucianism.
The political and religious occult reforms which Christian Rosenkreutz is said to have worked for have been carried out largely in secret.
Secret Societies such as the Rosicrucians have very seldom exposed their inner activities to the public gaze, preferring to work within established occult organizations which, because of their élitist structure, have concealed their real work from the gaze and criticism of the profane. In rare instances these esoteric teachings have been presented by an initiate to the public in a way which has made them accessible to the average person. p. 171 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
Secret Societies such as the Rosicrucians have very seldom exposed their inner activities to the public gaze, preferring to work within established occult organizations which, because of their élitist structure, have concealed their real work from the gaze and criticism of the profane. In rare instances these esoteric teachings have been presented by an initiate to the public in a way which has made them accessible to the average person.
p. 171 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
A consistent theme among occult secret societies is that of having "concealed their real work" by means of an "elitist structure." The recurring theme of inner "esoteric" teachings contrasted to outer "exoteric" teachings was exemplified by the Rosicrucian technique which Weishaupt evidently adopted as a key element for the success of his occult plan.
"Secret associations" are primarily structured by having it's members sworn to secrecy and admitted to the "inner teachings" by degrees, and respectively, it would be by a stealthy, secretive step-by-step process that such associations would obtain increasing control over political and religious organizations.
If princes or governmental officials and priests or religious leaders could not outright be co-opted or replaced by persons of the conspirator's choosing, then the vast network of members could, nevertheless, by their influence interfere with the due process of government or spiritual shepherding.
The Illuminist plan,
"To ... dispense with all political supports, and particularly with rulers This can be done in no other way but by secret associations, which will by degrees, and in silence, possess themselves of the government of the States, and make use of those means for this purpose which the wicked use for attaining their base ends. Princes and Priests are in particular, and ket' exochen, the wicked, whose hands must tie up by means of these associations, if we cannot root them out altogether. p. 106 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"To ... dispense with all political supports, and particularly with rulers This can be done in no other way but by secret associations, which will by degrees, and in silence, possess themselves of the government of the States, and make use of those means for this purpose which the wicked use for attaining their base ends. Princes and Priests are in particular, and ket' exochen, the wicked, whose hands must tie up by means of these associations, if we cannot root them out altogether.
Political gridlock was added to the Illuminist arsenal.
Espionage
Weishaupt conceived of the ultimate criminal organization. To facilitate such aims against the state and religion, espionage along with treason and other illicit "means" "which the wicked use for attaining their base ends," would become modus operandi of the Order of the Illuminati. "Secret associations" would provide a platform for "espionage" as well as a means to "in silence, possess themselves of the government of the States."
To that end a means to control Illuminati agents was incorporated. Criminal acts would be used even as a means by which Illuminati operatives would become criminally compromised subjects to their superiors.
According to a joint deposition signed by Professor Renner and his three colleagues, the object of the first degrees of Illuminism was to train the adepts in the system of espionage. Once the member had so committed himself to such nefarious acts of espionage, treason, or other treacherous enterprises, he remained in a state of perpetual dread, fearing his superiors might at some time reveal the criminal activity, the four academicians testified. p. 31 Behind The Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, From: Barruel, vol. 4, p. 248 Abbé Augusten de Barruel, Memoirs Illustrating The History Of Jacobinism
According to a joint deposition signed by Professor Renner and his three colleagues, the object of the first degrees of Illuminism was to train the adepts in the system of espionage. Once the member had so committed himself to such nefarious acts of espionage, treason, or other treacherous enterprises, he remained in a state of perpetual dread, fearing his superiors might at some time reveal the criminal activity, the four academicians testified.
p. 31 Behind The Lodge Door, Paul A. Fisher, From: Barruel, vol. 4, p. 248
A person in or having attained to political office as an Illuminist patsy or agent would thus face a "steering" device more powerful than a bribe, the threat of being publicly disgraced and exposed as criminally culpable. Illuminist agents would ideally operate with such a "sword" over their heads while they would intercept gossip in the courts of kings targeted for subversion.
Weishaupt established a network of Illuminist agents throughout Europe who had access to cardinals, princes and kings. These agents reported back to their Grand Master the gossip and intrigues of the courts which Weishaupt used for his own political purposes.
He believed that once the masses had been de-Christianized they would demand political freedom and the right to enjoy life without the moral straitjacket imposed by the puritanical teachings of the Church on sexual matters. p. 63 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
He believed that once the masses had been de-Christianized they would demand political freedom and the right to enjoy life without the moral straitjacket imposed by the puritanical teachings of the Church on sexual matters.
p. 63 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Subverting moral values has been a chief objective of the Illuminist conspiracy. "... once the masses had been de-Christianized" reveals not only the intent against traditional church leadership, but the aims against fundamental moral values of Christianity itself. The de-Christianizing of the "masses" would serve not simply as a means to an end in eliciting support for the overthrow of "church" authority, but would achieve an "end" or Illuminati objective in itself by the destruction of basic and legitimate Christian moral values. Marital fidelity is one of such values.
Christianity was targeted for destruction not only because of it's fundamental moral standards, but because of it's opposition to spiritistic-occult practices. This is a principal theme which emerges in the course of these chapters. Examine why the pagan-occult connection represents serious threats to human rights and to genuine freedom as the subjects unfold. There is a preponderant case against the occult conspiracy even when the conspiracy is considered alone on the basis of examining the writings of it's most notable proponents.
When Weishaupt planned the most insidious of secret societies and founded the Order of the Illuminati, he drew upon not only Egyptian occultism, but upon many forms of occultism. Weishaupt founded an Order which represented objectives very much already in existence among a number of occult secret societies such as the Rosicrucians, Knights Templar and "speculative" Freemasonry. The fundamental objective of his subversive organizational effort was to achieve world rulership by an "illuminated" occult elite, an occult "intellectual elite."
Weishaupt drew upon existing secret society operations and methods and targeted not only the Roman Catholic Church but all of Christianity, even that which was not compromised by those things of which Martin Luther charged the "Church." World rulership by an occult Hierarchy, supplanting governance by monarchies and the Pope of Rome, had been political and religious objectives of the Knights Templar.
Jacques de Molay was the last Grand Master of the Knights Templar Order of the Crusades, and before his execution in France provided that the occult Templar rites would not end with the banning of the Order and with the confiscation of the Order's wealth and so arranged for the continuation of the occult traditions and practices of the Knights Templar by forming what was later known as Scottish Masonry. Centuries later diabolical traditions of the Order would be incorporated into the structure of what is known as Freemasonry.
A New Hierarchy
But before his execution {Jacques de Molay, in 1314}, the Chief of the doomed Order {Knights Templar} organized and instituted what afterward came to be called the Occult, Hermetic, or Scottish Masonry. In the gloom of his prison, the Grand Master created four Metropolitan Lodges, at Naples for the East, at Edinburgh {Scotland} for the West, at Stockholm for the North, and at Paris for the South.
[The Order disappeared at once. Its estates and wealth were confiscated, and it seemed to have ceased to exist. Nevertheless it lived, under other names and governed by unknown Chiefs, revealing itself only to those who, in passing through a series of Degrees, had proven themselves worthy to be entrusted with the dangerous Secret....]
"The Successors of the Ancient Adepts Rose-Croix, abandoning by degrees the austere and hierarchical Science of their Ancestors in initiation, became a Mystic Sect, united with many of the Templars, the dogmas of the two intermingling, and believed themselves to be the sole depositaries of the secrets of the Gospel of St. John, seeing in its recitals an allegorical series of rites proper to complete the initiation.
"The Initiates, in fact, thought in the eighteenth century that their time had arrived, some to found a new Hierarchy, others to overturn all authority, and to press down all the summits of the Social Order under the level of Equality." p. 821 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
"The Initiates, in fact, thought in the eighteenth century that their time had arrived, some to found a new Hierarchy, others to overturn all authority, and to press down all the summits of the Social Order under the level of Equality."
p. 821 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
The "Scottish" connection would again figure prominently later in the further development of the occult conspiracy. The objective of founding "a new Hierarchy" composed of "Occult" initiates or adepts to "be rulers over the Masters of the World" was a plan pursued by the Knights Templar and others, but it should be noted that the Templar plan has been attended not only by degrees of secrecy, but by a front of Christian worship.
The Johannites ascribed to Saint John the foundation of their Secret Church, ...
"Thus the Order of Knights of the Temple was at its very origin devoted to the cause of opposition to the tiara of Rome and the crowns of Kings, ...
"The tendencies and tenets of the Order were enveloped in profound mystery, and it externally professed the most perfect orthodoxy. The Chiefs alone knew the aim of the Order: the Subalterns followed them without distrust.
"To acquire influence and wealth, then to intrigue, and at need to fight, to establish the Johannite or Gnostic and Kabalistic dogma, were the object and means proposed to the initiated Brethren. The Papacy and the rival monarchies, they said to them, are sold and bought in these days, become corrupt, and to-morrow, perhaps, will destroy each other. All that will become the heritage of the Temple: the World will soon come to us for its Sovereigns and Pontiffs. We shall constitute the equilibrium of the Universe, and be rulers over the Masters of the World.
"The Templars, like all other Secret Orders and Associations, had two doctrines, one concealed and reserved for the Masters, which was Johannism; the other public, which was the Roman Catholic. Thus they deceived the adversaries whom they sought to supplant. Hence Free-Masonry, vulgarly imagined to have begun with the Dionysian Architects or the German Stone-workers, adopted Saint John the Evangelist as one of its patrons, associating with him, in order not to arouse the suspicions of Rome...." p. 818 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
"The Templars, like all other Secret Orders and Associations, had two doctrines, one concealed and reserved for the Masters, which was Johannism; the other public, which was the Roman Catholic. Thus they deceived the adversaries whom they sought to supplant. Hence Free-Masonry, vulgarly imagined to have begun with the Dionysian Architects or the German Stone-workers, adopted Saint John the Evangelist as one of its patrons, associating with him, in order not to arouse the suspicions of Rome...."
p. 818 Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike
The St. John ploy would surface again to deceive entry level Masons as to the substance of the actual, core doctrines of Freemasonry, successor to the ancient rites. The outer appearances of the teachings, the exoteric, of the Knights Templar was that of Christianity, "in order not to arouse the suspicions of Rome," "externally professed the most perfect orthodoxy."
The esoteric, "concealed" occult doctrines "reserved for the Masters," provided a pattern of concealment in which Freemasons typically of lower degrees have traditionally been unaware of the inner, esoteric, concealed teachings of the masters of their organization, inasmuch as "The Chiefs alone knew the aim of the Order."
Although many of said chiefs remain "unknown Chiefs," principal European and American successors to Weishaupt, such as Albert Pike, have identified themselves by name and by means of a written record of teachings, rites and plans, as well as leaving a substantial legacy in creating organizations which would serve Illuminati objectives. Pagan, mystery religion doctrines have operated within secret, esoteric groups presenting a front of Christianity or Biblical Judaism.
Infiltration
These pagan beliefs survived the formation of the major world faiths of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam by adopting the outward form of these religions and operating within them as a heretical, secret and esoteric tradition. p. 1 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989 During the period following the emergence of the Mystery cultus and the adoption of Christianity as the official religion of the Roman Empire a new mystical movement arose in the Middle East which attempted to synthesize the best elements of the decaying paganism with the new Christian beliefs. This movement was known as Gnosticism, ...
These pagan beliefs survived the formation of the major world faiths of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam by adopting the outward form of these religions and operating within them as a heretical, secret and esoteric tradition.
p. 1 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
During the period following the emergence of the Mystery cultus and the adoption of Christianity as the official religion of the Roman Empire a new mystical movement arose in the Middle East which attempted to synthesize the best elements of the decaying paganism with the new Christian beliefs. This movement was known as Gnosticism, ...
They claimed to have preserved the real teachings of Jesus ...
The Gnostics derived their spiritual inspiration from a variety of sources, including the Greek and Roman Mysteries, Ancient Egyptian mythology, the Hermetic tradition, the dualistic doctrines of Zoroasterianism, the Middle Eastern fertility cults, the Chaldean stellar religion and Esoteric Christianity.
The Gnostics attempted to unite both paganism and Christianity and they produced a hybrid version of the new faith based on the heretical texts which circulated after the death of Jesus. p. 24 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
The Gnostics attempted to unite both paganism and Christianity and they produced a hybrid version of the new faith based on the heretical texts which circulated after the death of Jesus.
p. 24 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Thus, the Templar's religion combining Kabbalism and Gnosticism while having "adopted Saint John ... as one of its patrons ... in order not to arouse the suspicions of Rome ..." secretly held to an occult tradition.
Practices of Templarism can be traced to Egyptian Mystery Religion, which is relevant to the occult movement today as the New Age Egyptian connection is seeking to establish itself as the predominant influence in the Western World if not also globally as we approach the year 2000.
The Knights Templar objective of replacing rulership by monarchies and the Pope while obtaining world rulership by an occult elite became the objective of Weishaupt's Order.
The Templar plan
"the World will soon come to us for its Sovereigns and Pontiffs. We shall constitute the equilibrium of the Universe, and be rulers over the Masters of the World."
Weishaupt's Order:
In 1784, the Bavarian government, having been informed that the Order constituted a danger to the State and that its followers were said to have declared that "the Illuminati must in time rule the world," published an edict forbidding all secret societies. {footnote}
In April 1785, four other Illuminati who were also professors left the society, disgusted by Weishaupt and his tyrannical Order. They were summoned before a court of inquiry to give an account of the doctrines and methods of the Order. p.80 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: World Revolution, Nesta Webster, p. 33}
In April 1785, four other Illuminati who were also professors left the society, disgusted by Weishaupt and his tyrannical Order. They were summoned before a court of inquiry to give an account of the doctrines and methods of the Order.
p.80 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: World Revolution, Nesta Webster, p. 33}
When Weishaupt came along, the intent for occult initiates to rule the world already existed in occult secret societies, and it would be a mistake to think that such objectives and activities were limited to just a few years before Weishaupt founded his secret society of secret societies, or that the plans had ended when the Order of the Illuminati was banned. The "underground" mode was tailor made to established methods of clandestine operation.
Doctrines and methods of the "tyrannical Order" had been obtained from Luciferic Egyptian Mystery Religion and secret societies such as the Templars and the Rosicrucians (Ancient Adepts Rose-Croix).
The precedent of the initiates of the Knights Templar and Rosicrucians:
Weishaupt's Order of the Illuminati :
{Adam Weishaupt in a letter to "Cato."} "There must not a single purpose ever come in sight that is ambiguous, and that may betray our aims against religion and the state. One must speak sometimes one way and sometimes another, but so as never to contradict ourselves, and so that, with respect to our true way of thinking, we may be impenetrable. When our strongest things chance to give offence, they must be explained as attempts to draw answers which discover to us the sentiments of the persons we converse with." p. 85 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
{Adam Weishaupt in a letter to "Cato."}
"There must not a single purpose ever come in sight that is ambiguous, and that may betray our aims against religion and the state. One must speak sometimes one way and sometimes another, but so as never to contradict ourselves, and so that, with respect to our true way of thinking, we may be impenetrable. When our strongest things chance to give offence, they must be explained as attempts to draw answers which discover to us the sentiments of the persons we converse with."
p. 85 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
This method of proposing offensive subversive ideas might be exemplified by "floating" a diabolical idea publicly, such as "opening dialog" as to whether legalization of addictive and dangerous drugs would serve beneficial social purposes, whereas said drugs are physically, morally, spiritually, socially and economically highly destructive and sinister agents. In other words,
"When our strongest things chance to give offence, they must be explained as attempts to draw answers which discover to us the sentiments of the persons we converse with."
Commenting on the Illuminati, Nesta Webster considers their methods:
With these novices the adept of Illuminism is to proceed slowly, talking backwards and forwards:
"One must speak, first in one way, then in another, so as not to commit oneself and to make one's real way of thinking impenetrable to one's inferiors." Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster Nachtrag von . . . Originalschriften, I. 12. It is for this reason that I have quoted at length the writings of the Illuminati--all the ruses, all the hypocrisy, all the subtle methods of camouflage which characterized the Order will be found again in the insidious propaganda both of the modern secret societies and the open revolutionary organizations whose object is to subvert all order, all morality, and all religion. p. 232 Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster, 1924
"One must speak, first in one way, then in another, so as not to commit oneself and to make one's real way of thinking impenetrable to one's inferiors."
Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster
Nachtrag von . . . Originalschriften, I. 12.
It is for this reason that I have quoted at length the writings of the Illuminati--all the ruses, all the hypocrisy, all the subtle methods of camouflage which characterized the Order will be found again in the insidious propaganda both of the modern secret societies and the open revolutionary organizations whose object is to subvert all order, all morality, and all religion.
p. 232 Secret Societies and Subversive Movements, Nesta H. Webster, 1924
The subversion of "all religion" is an exclusionary Illuminist goal, that is, it's objective is to replace all religion with that of it's own.
{Illuminati discourse of initiation:} "If in order to destroy all Christianity, all religion, we have pretended to have the sole true religion, remember that the end justifies the means, and that the wise ought to take all the means to do good which the wicked take to do evil. Those which we have taken to deliver you, those which we have taken to deliver one day the human race from all religion, are nothing else than a pious fraud which we reserve to unveil one day in the grade of Magus or Philosopher Illuminated. p. 13 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
{Illuminati discourse of initiation:}
"If in order to destroy all Christianity, all religion, we have pretended to have the sole true religion, remember that the end justifies the means, and that the wise ought to take all the means to do good which the wicked take to do evil. Those which we have taken to deliver you, those which we have taken to deliver one day the human race from all religion, are nothing else than a pious fraud which we reserve to unveil one day in the grade of Magus or Philosopher Illuminated.
p. 13 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
In view of one of the Illuminati's ultimate objectives of dismantling "all morality" it is important to here note that religions of Christianity, Judaism, and Islam which hold to moral principles in opposition to such acts as adultery and fornication would appear to comprise in a major way the term "all religion" which the Illuminati's discourse of initiation refers to.
It is also important to note that several degrees of Illuminati initiation have been represented in Weishaupt's organization, representing various stages of disclosure of the aims of the secret Order, and that the very source of inspiration of Illuminism has been that of Lucifer, having established a pagan mystery religion legacy through Egyptian occultic mystery religion and other pagan societies. Thus the expression "we have pretended to have the sole true religion" appears to represent one level of representing the aims of the Order in a series of degrees. While there were Knights Templar who had professed to hold to the "secret teachings" of "St. John", it was a ploy, a ruse.
The formulation quoted in John Robison's "Proofs of a Conspiracy" is an intriguing one, but that is what the Illuminati have specialized in, layers upon layers of intrigue. If taken by itself, the formulation could well have been suited for Illuminists later implicated in the rise of Communism. Yet at the very top of the Illuminist conspiracy Lucifer is unequivocally the god who is worshipped (as is documented in this research work), while Atheism has been used as a tool to destroy faith in the God of the Bible in such lands in which the Orthodox Church wielded great power.
The compartmentalization of the Illuminist conspiracy has served multiple purposes, including that of pitting nation against nation in war. In the West the tactic of infiltration and influence from within Christian professing churches has been but one of many Illuminati/occult secret society methods which has found 'astonishing success' while Western civilization in general has become increasingly 'de-Christianized.'
The issue of who poses a greater threat to Christianity, the atheist or the "virtuous priest" who is really an agent of, or himself an Illuminati working in concert with the Illuminist Plan for the World, is not simply a springboard for scenario discussions or theoretical postulations. It has been and continues to be real, impacting people's lives.
The 'pious frauds' among religious leaders used to "deliver" people "from all religion" evidently have counterparts in political figures and media personalities, "smiling faces." To emphasize, the occult conspiracy has continued in operation in our day.
"When we see the smiling faces of international statesmen and religious leaders on the television or in the newspapers it is difficult to imagine that behind the diplomatic facade exists a very different world; a world a secret societies and occult fraternities peopled by shadowy figures who have often been obsessed with the pursuit of power. Since the days of the Pharaohs in ancient Egypt the occult has entangled the black arts of espionage, subversion and revolution in its web. Today the occult conspiracy still affects politics, although there are few who are aware of its influence even though those who control it are often well known faces and household names." p. viii, Preface The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
"When we see the smiling faces of international statesmen and religious leaders on the television or in the newspapers it is difficult to imagine that behind the diplomatic facade exists a very different world; a world a secret societies and occult fraternities peopled by shadowy figures who have often been obsessed with the pursuit of power.
Since the days of the Pharaohs in ancient Egypt the occult has entangled the black arts of espionage, subversion and revolution in its web. Today the occult conspiracy still affects politics, although there are few who are aware of its influence even though those who control it are often well known faces and household names."
p. viii, Preface The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Infiltration, replacing the leaders of organized religions with their "own" or with dupes who have themselves been subverted comprises declared modus operandi. Another method is to subvert the teachings and practices of Christianity, sowing poison. This manifestly includes the use of spiritistic practices masquerading as powers originating with Jesus Christ.
Warning, the following is a quotation !
Organizations were to be formed that had nothing to do with Masonry on the surface, but which would be under its control: Create by yourselves, or, better yet, cause to be created by others, associations, having commerce, industry, music, the fine arts, etc., for object. Reunite in one place or another ... these tribes of yours as yet ignorant: put them under the pastoral staff of some virtuous priest, well known, but credulous and easy to be deceived. Then infiltrate the poison into those chosen hearts; infiltrate it in little doses....Afterwards, upon reflection, you will yourselves be astonished at your success. {footnote} New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, 1885), p. 58, 59}
Organizations were to be formed that had nothing to do with Masonry on the surface, but which would be under its control:
Create by yourselves, or, better yet, cause to be created by others, associations, having commerce, industry, music, the fine arts, etc., for object. Reunite in one place or another ... these tribes of yours as yet ignorant: put them under the pastoral staff of some virtuous priest, well known, but credulous and easy to be deceived. Then infiltrate the poison into those chosen hearts; infiltrate it in little doses....Afterwards, upon reflection, you will yourselves be astonished at your success.
{footnote}
New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990
{footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, 1885), p. 58, 59}
The designs to infiltrate and effectively destroy Christianity from within can be traced to the first century. Paganization of Christian congregations is documented over the course of several centuries after the death of the apostles, and the intent to destroy every last vestige of Christianity, including worship which has been compromised with pagandom, is at the core of the Illuminist conspiracy.
It has often been claimed that the ultimate objective of the secret societies was to infiltrate the Vatican and place their own man on the papal throne. The Illuminist conspiracy had been exposed after all in 1785 when a priest who was a member of the Order died in an accident. He was killed by lightning while on a secret mission for the Order ...A nun ... found a cache of documents sewn into the lining of his cassock. These documents outlined plans for the destruction of the Catholic Church from inside. The authorities promptly outlawed the Order and its leader Adam Weishaupt was banished from Bavaria. ... he laid the foundation for the completion of his grand plan which many believe is still in operation today. p. 151 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
It has often been claimed that the ultimate objective of the secret societies was to infiltrate the Vatican and place their own man on the papal throne. The Illuminist conspiracy had been exposed after all in 1785 when a priest who was a member of the Order died in an accident. He was killed by lightning while on a secret mission for the Order ...A nun ... found a cache of documents sewn into the lining of his cassock.
These documents outlined plans for the destruction of the Catholic Church from inside. The authorities promptly outlawed the Order and its leader Adam Weishaupt was banished from Bavaria. ... he laid the foundation for the completion of his grand plan which many believe is still in operation today.
p. 151 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
Michael Howard's book The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History provides many intriguing disclosures of behind the scenes events in the occult conspiracy. The author, however, takes a pro-occult view of mankind's destiny, rejecting the Biblical position.
Yet, some of the most indicting material against occult activities is provided by the writings of the foremost advocates of the occult conspiracy, which reveals and leaves no doubt that "the completion of his {Weishaupt's} grand plan" "is still in operation today."
The Sceptre of Occult Power Continues
The Illuminist Conspiracy did not depend upon the leadership of one man. The scepter of power of the evil empire employing "all the occult means at their disposal" shifted to the secret society of the Carbonari.
They believed that the new revolutionary fever in the country had been encouraged by a secret society known as the Carbonari ... This sect had originated in Scotland at the time of Robert the Bruce and had spread to France, Germany, Poland and Italy.
With over 60,000 members in Italy it was easy for the Carbonari to seize power in Naples and Piedmont. King Ferdinand was forced to take an oath of allegiance to the society and wear their symbol of the read, white and blue tricolour.
{Czar Alexander spoke of :}
' ... the empire of evil which is spreading by all the occult means at their disposal the Satanic spirit which directs it.' p. 103 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
' ... the empire of evil which is spreading by all the occult means at their disposal the Satanic spirit which directs it.'
p. 103 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies ---
The principle "occult means" at their disposal has been the subject of cover-ups for centuries. It can be crucial to know what such means are "so that you can successfully resist all the devil's craftiness." - Ephesians 6: 11, Phillips Modern English, Eight Translation.
The Carbonari stepped in, perpetuating Weishaupt's designs.
Certainly one of the main objectives of the Carbonari was to infiltrate the Church at all levels and eventually have one of its own members elected as Pope. p. 151 The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies --- Their Influence and Power in World History, Michael Howard, 1989
Certainly one of the main objectives of the Carbonari was to infiltrate the Church at all levels and eventually have one of its own members elected as Pope.
The plot deepens. The dark empire of evil escalates the agenda of corruption.
Upon the death of Weishaupt in 1830, at age eighty-two, control of the Illuminati fell to the Italians. This was probably because they showed a considerably greater natural proclivity for the black arts than did Weishaupt's Germans. According to Monsignor George Dillon:
Italian genius soon outstripped the Germans in astuteness, and as soon as, perhaps sooner than, Weishaupt had passed away, the supreme government of all the Secret Societies of the world was exercised by the Alta Vendita or highest lodge of the Italian Carbonari. The Alta Vendita ruled the blackest Freemasonry of France, Germany, and England; and until Mazzini wrenched the sceptre of the dark Empire from that body, it continued with consummate ability to direct the revolutions of Europe. {footnote} p.119 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, 1885), p. 50-51)
Italian genius soon outstripped the Germans in astuteness, and as soon as, perhaps sooner than, Weishaupt had passed away, the supreme government of all the Secret Societies of the world was exercised by the Alta Vendita or highest lodge of the Italian Carbonari. The Alta Vendita ruled the blackest Freemasonry of France, Germany, and England; and until Mazzini wrenched the sceptre of the dark Empire from that body, it continued with consummate ability to direct the revolutions of Europe.
p.119
{footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, 1885), p. 50-51)
The "dark empire" which directed the revolutions of Europe to bring about changes needed to establish a "new Hierarchy," an occult rulership, was now lead by a man who formed another secret organization which in our day deals in corruption by means of addictive and dangerous drugs, prostitution, and murder. The Mafia.
Strong-Armed Corruption
Mazzini had formed a society in Sicily called the Oblonica, ... As is typical with the Masons, Mazzini formed an order within an order. This elite inner group was called by a term much more familiar to the reader - the Mafia! Although most people know what the Mafia is, few people realize it was founded as a Sicilian Masonic terrorist organization. The name Mafia emerged around 1860 and is an acronym ... . {footnote} p. 192 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991 (In modern times Italians might be more familiar with the Italian P-2, or Propaganda-2 Lodge on the subject of Masonic Mafia.)
Mazzini had formed a society in Sicily called the Oblonica, ... As is typical with the Masons, Mazzini formed an order within an order. This elite inner group was called by a term much more familiar to the reader - the Mafia!
Although most people know what the Mafia is, few people realize it was founded as a Sicilian Masonic terrorist organization. The name Mafia emerged around 1860 and is an acronym ... . {footnote}
p. 192 Masonry: Beyond the Light, William Schnoebelen, 1991 (In modern times Italians might be more familiar with the Italian P-2, or Propaganda-2 Lodge on the subject of Masonic Mafia.)
The founder of the Mafia, Giuseppe Mazzini, has established himself as one of the greatest spiritual menaces of all time. He, like Weishaupt, saw in the structure and esoteric principles of Freemasonry and it's base of power of a professional membership the means to achieve the occult conspiracy internationally.
Mazzini had understood that Freemasonry was a powerful lever with which to revolutionize the world, but he saw it divided into numerous rites, often rivals, and even hostile to one another. Aspiring to Italian Unity as a means of breaking the temporal power of the Holy See, he dreamt of a union of masonry throughout the world to destroy the church itself as a spiritual power. p. 208 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
Mazzini had understood that Freemasonry was a powerful lever with which to revolutionize the world, but he saw it divided into numerous rites, often rivals, and even hostile to one another. Aspiring to Italian Unity as a means of breaking the temporal power of the Holy See, he dreamt of a union of masonry throughout the world to destroy the church itself as a spiritual power.
p. 208 Occult Theocrasy, Lady Queenborough (Edith Starr Miller), 1933
That union of international masonry was achieved by forming a horrible secret rite of the Illuminati to govern Freemasonry at it's highest levels. It is a rite which in the progression of it's various steps embodies the total corruption of human beings. It reveals without qualification the source of it's mystic inspiration or "illumination." Corruption embodies it's source of inspiration.
Masonry is disguised as a movement to free the common man from the corruption and tyranny of the Church and dictatorial monarchies, but behind the scenes, Masonry has another goal in mind. In a letter from Alta Vendita member Vindex, to fellow member Nubius, their real purpose is revealed for all to see: It is corruption en masse that we have undertaken; the corruption of the people by the clergy, and the corruption of the clergy by ourselves; the corruption which ought, one day, to enable us to put the Church in her tomb. {footnote} p.121 New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies, William T. Still, 1990 {footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, p. 64 }
Masonry is disguised as a movement to free the common man from the corruption and tyranny of the Church and dictatorial monarchies, but behind the scenes, Masonry has another goal in mind. In a letter from Alta Vendita member Vindex, to fellow member Nubius, their real purpose is revealed for all to see:
It is corruption en masse that we have undertaken; the corruption of the people by the clergy, and the corruption of the clergy by ourselves; the corruption which ought, one day, to enable us to put the Church in her tomb.
p.121
{footnote: Mgr. George E. Dillon, D.D., Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism, (Metairie, LA: Sons of Liberty revised edition 1950; original edition New York: Burns and Oats, p. 64 }
The corrupting inspiration of the occult conspiracy has yielded the following agenda:
Weishaupt corruption, "de-Christianizing the masses." Alta Vendita corruption, "corruption en masse that we have undertaken ..." Mazzini, Mafia, wholesale corruption.
Weishaupt corruption, "de-Christianizing the masses."
Alta Vendita corruption, "corruption en masse that we have undertaken ..."
Mazzini, Mafia, wholesale corruption.
Dangerous Fundamentals
The occult rites which have been tauted as "spirituality" by the adepts will be shown to represent the worst abuse of human nature. The aims to dismantle and overthrow true Christian morality, the use of corruption as a means to blackmail or otherwise to subvert persons in authority, all bespeaks an evil plan ...
"by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil ..." p. foreword - 6, by the publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
"by professionals and intellectuals, many of them brilliant but cunning and clever, who decided to put their minds in the service of total evil ..."
p. foreword - 6, by the publisher Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
Secrecy has been fundamental to the occult conspiracy owing to corrupt and dangerous fundamentals of the occult traditions and designs on humanity.
It surely needs little argument now to prove, that the Order of Illuminati had for its immediate object the abolishing of Christianity (at least this was the intention of the Founder) with the sole view of overturning the civil government, by introducing universal dissoluteness and profligacy of manners, and then getting the assistance of the corrupted subjects to overset the throne. The whole conduct in the preparation and instruction of the Presbyter and Regens is directed to this point. Philo says, "I have been at unwearied pains to remove the fears of some who imagine that our Superiors want to abolish Christianity; but by and by their prejudices will wear off, and they will be more at their ease. Were I to let them know that our General holds all Religion to be a lie, and uses even Deism, only to lead men by the nose.--Were I to connect myself again with the Free Masons, and tell them our designs to ruin their Fraternity by this circular letter (a letter to the Lodge in Courland)-- Were I but to give the least hint to any of the Princes of Greece (Bavaria)--No, my anger shall not carry me so far.--An Order forsooth, which in this manner abuses human nature--which will subject men to a bondage more intolerable than Jesuitism.--I could put it on a respectable footing, and the world would be ours. Should I mention our fundamental principles (even after all the pains I have been at to mitigate them) so unquestionably dangerous to the world, who would remain? p. 124 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798,
It surely needs little argument now to prove, that the Order of Illuminati had for its immediate object the abolishing of Christianity (at least this was the intention of the Founder) with the sole view of overturning the civil government, by introducing universal dissoluteness and profligacy of manners, and then getting the assistance of the corrupted subjects to overset the throne. The whole conduct in the preparation and instruction of the Presbyter and Regens is directed to this point.
Philo says, "I have been at unwearied pains to remove the fears of some who imagine that our Superiors want to abolish Christianity; but by and by their prejudices will wear off, and they will be more at their ease. Were I to let them know that our General holds all Religion to be a lie, and uses even Deism, only to lead men by the nose.--Were I to connect myself again with the Free Masons, and tell them our designs to ruin their Fraternity by this circular letter (a letter to the Lodge in Courland)-- Were I but to give the least hint to any of the Princes of Greece (Bavaria)--No, my anger shall not carry me so far.--An Order forsooth, which in this manner abuses human nature--which will subject men to a bondage more intolerable than Jesuitism.--I could put it on a respectable footing, and the world would be ours. Should I mention our fundamental principles (even after all the pains I have been at to mitigate them) so unquestionably dangerous to the world, who would remain?
p. 124 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798,
Abolishing Christianity and overturning civil authority which advocates moral values classify as truly pernicious principles. Further, doctrines of atheism as instruments to assault faith in God have been used as a prelude to introducing persons to occult practices.
By no means were all of Adam Weishaupt's fundamental principles mentioned in the foregoing reference. What has been examined thus far as to the diabolical "fundamental principles" of the occult conspiracy is considerably incomplete. The inner machinery of the occult, evil empire threatens the spiritual and physical safety of everyone. The methods of the "Invisible Empire" pertain to creating zones of "influence", "secret influence" of the most diabolical nature.
The "dark Empire," "empire of evil," which operates by means of secret societies behind the scenes often portrays itself with exoteric teachings even as Christian, but esoterically, at it's core, represents dogma and practices which are horrifying. The occult empire centers on esoteric, hidden teachings and has been aptly referred to by one of it's chief Masonic proponents as "the Invisible Empire."
The pattern of the Invisible Empire is impressed like a seal upon all the physical institutions which it fashions and overshadows. Each of the Secret Societies is a microcosm of the whole design, and these microcosms when clustered in their proper geometric arrangement become the petals of a vast cosmic flower, like the mystic rose of Dante's vision and the white lotus blossom of the Eastern Mysteries. p. 8 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
The pattern of the Invisible Empire is impressed like a seal upon all the physical institutions which it fashions and overshadows. Each of the Secret Societies is a microcosm of the whole design, and these microcosms when clustered in their proper geometric arrangement become the petals of a vast cosmic flower, like the mystic rose of Dante's vision and the white lotus blossom of the Eastern Mysteries.
p. 8 Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy, by Manly P. Hall, 1949, 1976
The Diabolical Plan
The "Great Plan" of establishing an Occult Hierarchy presiding over a one-world government has in the organ of Freemasonry obtained a significant, even preponderant "sphere of ... influence" of professionals who by a process of corruption, which includes the taking of oaths which encompass murder and treason, have prepared many of it's members to do "whatever task the Keepers of the Great Plan required."
The genuine Esoteric Associations always required that disciples prepare themselves for careers of practical service... He was then to practice this profession or craft as a means of extending his sphere of constructive influence... Thus, gradually creating a significant zone of influence, he was available for whatever task the Keepers of the Great Plan required. p. 115 America's Assignment With Destiny, Manly P. Hall, 1951
The genuine Esoteric Associations always required that disciples prepare themselves for careers of practical service... He was then to practice this profession or craft as a means of extending his sphere of constructive influence... Thus, gradually creating a significant zone of influence, he was available for whatever task the Keepers of the Great Plan required.
p. 115 America's Assignment With Destiny, Manly P. Hall, 1951
Read on to examine the structure of Freemasonry, it's roots and the substance of it's inspiration, as well as the oaths which by themselves corrupt the conscience of those taking them. Consider the effects of the Masonic "significant zone of influence" in America.
The "Keepers of the Great Plan," the Illuminati, have augmented their own "sphere of influence" to "direct all mankind" by directing Freemasonry from the strategic point of comprising a secret society within a secret society. Thus, the tactical means to "influence all political transactions" could be exercised with great force but with virtual unanimity.
{Adam Weishaupt to "Cato."} "By this plan we shall direct all mankind. In this manner, and by the simplest means, we shall set all in motion and in flames. The occupations must be so allotted and contrived, that we may, in secret, influence all political transactions." p. 84 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
{Adam Weishaupt to "Cato."}
"By this plan we shall direct all mankind. In this manner, and by the simplest means, we shall set all in motion and in flames. The occupations must be so allotted and contrived, that we may, in secret, influence all political transactions."
p. 84 Proofs of a Conspiracy, John Robison, A.M., 1798
The research work
AMERICA'S SUBVERSION
The Enemy Within
is presented "as is" and is not completed.
It represents an historical and current analysis of related New Age subject matter,
as well as a critical analysis of the claims of Masonic scholars and New Age leaders.
The presentation is without warranties but represents a sincere effort to distinguish fact from fiction.
Index
Chapter 3
