# Anatomy of a One World Religion?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociop-yy/oneworldreligion.htm

by Acharya S
from Fredom4rum Website
Is the world destined to be dominated by a single religion? Which one will it be? Who will be in charge of this theocracy?
"I pledge my allegiance to HaShem, G-d of Israel, Creator and King of the Universe, to His Torah and its representatives, the developing Sanhedrin. I hereby pledge to uphold the Seven Laws of Noah in all their details, according to Oral Law of Moses under the guidance of the developing Sanhedrin. May HaShem bless and aid me, my fellow council members and all B'nai Noach in all our endeavors for the sake of His name. Blessed are You G-d, King of the universe, who has caused me to live, sustained me, and brought me to this day." Pledge made by the "Children of Noah" in front of the Israeli Sanhedrin, 1/10/06
With the new millennium, increasing numbers of people have heard about the "One World Religion" purportedly being planned by the ruling elite, i.e., the "Illuminati," "Masons," or various other cultic/religious interests. Many people believe that such a One World Religion, if indeed a planned development, will be a form of Catholicism or "New Age Spiritualism," while others such as Jews and Muslims insist that their ideologies will rule the world.
From some circles it appears that, rather than heading for a "new age of enlightenment" with increased personal freedom, including the freedom from religion, as is popularly believed, the United States - and by extension the world - is evidently being pushed instead towards a fascistic theocracy.
Although governmental agencies may have had a hand behind some aspects of the "New Age Movement" (NAM), the One World Religion evidently intended by these various agencies is not the pastiche of airy-fairy, lovey-dovey concepts found within the NAM, by which everyone is equal and accepted.
Vying for the authorship of the One World Religion are evidently a number of factions, including certain interest groups that wish the theocracy to be based primarily on Judaic ideology, emulating the firm and merciless hand of Islam's mullahs and imams. Under such a dictatorship, books would be banned and burned, and freethinkers would be jailed or executed.
If the Hassidic Jewish Movement has its way, the so-called Noahide Laws would be followed to the letter, as would many others found in the "Old Testament," prescribing capital punishment for abortion, euthanasia and "sexual deviation" such as adultery and homosexuality. The punishment, in fact, for breaking any of the Noahide Laws is decapitation. Although the term "Noahide Laws" is not widely known, it is fairly common knowledge among the political and religious powermongers, allegedly representing "holy writ" passed along to Noah prior to the "Great Flood."
According to some, these Laws are to be the basis of the One World Religion being pushed by the "Committee of 300's" New World Order.
Ultraist intentions are displayed by the Temple Mount & Eretz Yisrael Faithful Movement - Jerusalem, a supposed "fringe group" (with Knesset connections) that advocates as one of its long-term objectives:
"Consecrating the Temple Mount to the Name of G-d so that it can become the moral and spiritual center of Israel, of the Jewish people and of the entire world according to the words of all the Hebrew prophets. It is envisioned that the consecration of the Temple Mount and the Temple itself will focus Israel on (a) fulfilling the vision and mission given at Mt. Sinai for Israel to be a chosen people separate unto G-d, a holy nation, and a nation of priests, and (b) becoming a light unto all the nations [Yeshayahu (Isaiah) 42:6] so that the Name of G-d may be revered by all nations and the Biblical way of life may be propagated throughout the world."
The Temple Mount Faithful group claim that the United States was,
"founded by G-d to stand with Israel against her enemies... "It further asserts that anyone who moves against Israel is "anti-G-d"; Israel and "her people" are essentially equated with God, but all others are not. Another quote from Temple Mount Faithful: "No one can stop the G-d of Israel."
"founded by G-d to stand with Israel against her enemies...
"It further asserts that anyone who moves against Israel is "anti-G-d";
Israel and "her people" are essentially equated with God, but all others are not.
Another quote from Temple Mount Faithful: "No one can stop the G-d of Israel."
Providing evidence of a possible One World Religion, on March 26, 1991, U.S. President George Bush signed Public Law 102-14, a congressional resolution on the Seven Noahide Laws (H.J. Resolution 104, Public Law 102-14).
Prior to that event, as Val Valerian says,
"The bill was passed in the House by a voice vote on March 5, 1991 and was passed by the Senate on March 7, 1991."
The Proclamation was as follows:
"Whereas Congress recognized the historical tradition of ethical values and principles which are the basis of civilized society and upon which our great Nation was founded; "Whereas these ethical principles have been the bedrock of society from the dawn of civilization when they were referred to as the Seven Noahide Laws; "Whereas without these ethical values and principles the edifice of civilization stand in serious peril of returning to chaos; "Whereas society is profoundly concerned with the recent weakening of these principles that has resulted in crises that beleaguer and threaten the fabric of civilized society; "Whereas the justified preoccupation with these crises must not let the citizens of the Nation lose sight of their responsibility to transmit these historical ethical values from our distinguished past to the generations of the future;"Whereas the Lubavitch movement has fostered and promoted these ethical values and principles throughout the world;"Whereas Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, leader of the Lubavitch movement, is universally respected and revered and his eighty-ninth birthday falls on March 26, 1991;"Whereas in tribute to this great spiritual leader, 'the rebbe,' this his ninetieth year will be seen as one of 'education and giving,' the year in which we turn education and charity to return the world to the moral and ethical values contained in the Seven Noahide Laws; and"Whereas this will be reflected in an international scroll of honor signed by the President of the United States and other heads of state; Now, therefore, be it,"Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That March 26, 1991, the start of the ninetieth year of Rabbi Menachem Schneerson, leader of the worldwide Lubavitch movement, is designated as 'EDUCATION DAY U.S.A.' The President is requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe such day with appropriate ceremonies and activities."
"Whereas Congress recognized the historical tradition of ethical values and principles which are the basis of civilized society and upon which our great Nation was founded; "Whereas these ethical principles have been the bedrock of society from the dawn of civilization when they were referred to as the Seven Noahide Laws; "Whereas without these ethical values and principles the edifice of civilization stand in serious peril of returning to chaos; "Whereas society is profoundly concerned with the recent weakening of these principles that has resulted in crises that beleaguer and threaten the fabric of civilized society; "Whereas the justified preoccupation with these crises must not let the citizens of the Nation lose sight of their responsibility to transmit these historical ethical values from our distinguished past to the generations of the future;"Whereas the Lubavitch movement has fostered and promoted these ethical values and principles throughout the world;"Whereas Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, leader of the Lubavitch movement, is universally respected and revered and his eighty-ninth birthday falls on March 26, 1991;"Whereas in tribute to this great spiritual leader, 'the rebbe,' this his ninetieth year will be seen as one of 'education and giving,' the year in which we turn education and charity to return the world to the moral and ethical values contained in the Seven Noahide Laws; and"Whereas this will be reflected in an international scroll of honor signed by the President of the United States and other heads of state; Now, therefore, be it,"Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That March 26, 1991, the start of the ninetieth year of Rabbi Menachem Schneerson, leader of the worldwide Lubavitch movement, is designated as 'EDUCATION DAY U.S.A.' The President is requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United States to observe such day with appropriate ceremonies and activities."
What are the Noahide Laws?
The Noahide Laws are said to be from the "Bible," but evidently are Talmudic. The Encyclopedia Americana relates concerning the Noahide Laws:
"A Jewish Talmudic designation for seven biblical laws given to Adam and to Noah before the revelation to Moses on Mt Sinai and consequently binding all mankind. Beginning with Genesis 2:16, the Babylonian Talmud listed the first six commandments... After the flood a seventh commandment, given-to Noah, forbade the eating of flesh from living animals (Genesis 9:4). Throughout the ages scholars have viewed the Noahide Laws as a link between Judaism and Christianity, as universal norms of ethical conduct, as a basic concept of international law, or as a guarantee of fundamental human rights for all."
"A Jewish Talmudic designation for seven biblical laws given to Adam and to Noah before the revelation to Moses on Mt Sinai and consequently binding all mankind. Beginning with Genesis 2:16, the Babylonian Talmud listed the first six commandments... After the flood a seventh commandment, given-to Noah, forbade the eating of flesh from living animals (Genesis 9:4).
Throughout the ages scholars have viewed the Noahide Laws as a link between Judaism and Christianity, as universal norms of ethical conduct, as a basic concept of international law, or as a guarantee of fundamental human rights for all."
In Matrix III, Val Valerian says:
"...the Noahide Laws apply only to non-Jews living under Jewish jurisdiction. Interestingly, Webster's Dictionary, New International Edition 2nd Ed 1950, states that a Noachite is 'one who has taken the 21st degree of the Scottish Rite (Freemasonry).'"
As noted, the punishment for breaking these Laws is decapitation. Valerian wonders:
"In discussing this curious sociological development, I was reminded of the stories that have been going around for the past three or four years about shipments of guillotines into the United States. A connection?"
Valerian further quotes a,
"Dr. Earnest Easterly, III, Professor of International Law and Director of the Institute for Comparative Legal Studies, Southern University Law Center," as saying: "With further recognition by other nations and international courts, the Seven Noahide Laws should become the cornerstone of a truly 'civilized' international legal order."
"Dr. Earnest Easterly, III, Professor of International Law and Director of the Institute for Comparative Legal Studies, Southern University Law Center," as saying:
"With further recognition by other nations and international courts, the Seven Noahide Laws should become the cornerstone of a truly 'civilized' international legal order."
There have been a number of calls lately for the the "establishment of justice" based on the "seven mitzvot of the children of Noah," which are claimed to be "universal." In essence, Judeo-centric writers and leaders wish to impose the Noahide Laws upon the rest of the world. In fact, those who do not follow the "Seven Commandments of Noah" are considered to be "lower than the mosquito." What are these Laws, which should cause consternation to all thinking individuals? The order of the Laws varies from source to source; the following is the Chabad version.
The First Noahide Law
The first of the Seven Noahide Laws is:
"Thou shall not engage in idol worship."
"Idolatry" is clarified as:
"Any teaching or belief system that attempts to deify man (any man) or to humanize God is idolatry."
Since the definition of "idolatry" is also culturally dependent, Christians, Buddhists and Hindus, among many others, would all be considered criminals.
Islam, of course, takes this law to the extreme, fervently banning "idolatrous images." However, according to this Noahide Law, Muslims who "worship" the kaaba stone at Mecca would be subject to punishment, although supposedly not death. In other times and eras "God" was viewed as a female, such that, were such cultural biases reversed, the worship of God as a giant man in the sky, as found in Islam and Judaism, would also be considered idolatry. The Trinity of Catholicism is considered idolatrous, as are the many Hindus Gods. Under this law, the precepts of Buddhism would be illegal, since Buddhism is designed to recognize and produce the "God within," and to thus treat people and other sentient beings with dignity and respect, as Godly entities.
Pantheism, of course, or the recognition of the Divine in all creation, would also be illegal. People who erect "beautiful graven images," even without intention to worship them, will also be subject to punishment. It is also forbidden to buy products from "idol-worshippers," such as incense or health food from Hindus, if they are used in "idol-worship." Bending down in front of an "idol" or picking up a brick and saying, "This is my God," makes a person liable for (capital) punishment.
Astrology and the "full form" of the Zodiac are forbidden, although separate images of the signs are permitted.
"Complete" images of the sun and moon are also verbotten, as are various forms of jewelry and music. "Three-dimensional" forms of man (i.e., statuary) are also forbidden to be "gazed upon." The three "chief idolatrous forms in the world" are the dragon, as a "symbol of the primordial serpent"; a "full figure of man" offering something from his extended palm (Christ as the "Pantocrator?"); and "a woman nursing an infant" (Madonna and Child).
Anyone who induces someone else to bow to an idol is a "seducer" and is liable for punishment, which, again, is decapitation. Bowing down or genuflecting before a cross, of course, is considered idolatry. The list goes on and on, with nitpicking over the smallest minutiae, including forbidden and permissible rocks, trees, water, ghosts and spirits, and how to "nullify" idolatrous images. "Witchcraft" and "divination" practiced by a "Noahide," i.e., "Child of Noah" or Gentile who follows the Laws, are debatable as to their permissibility under this Noahide Law, as one must be a "true wizard" to be liable for death by stoning.
Astrology that determines a person's character is permissible, but forecasts of the future are not.
The Second Noahide Law
The second of the Noahide Laws is:
"Thou shall not blaspheme God."
It is further referenced at Leviticus 24:16:
"He who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him; the sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death."
This outrageous and inhumane law was lampooned in Monty Python's brilliant and enlightening "Life of Brian": "Jehovah! Jehovah! Jehovah!" The concept of "God" has been culturally dependent, and those freethinkers who have questioned it have often constituted some of the most intelligent, honest and brave human beings around.
This Law would catch in its deadly net not only "atheists," who make up a tiny, highly persecuted minority, but evidently also anyone who did not agree with the Judaic interpretation of "God" as determined by the Torah, Tenach ("Old Testament") and Talmud. In other words, the vengeful tribal God Yahweh. Blaspheming or cursing the Gods of other cultures, by calling them "idols," however, is not punishable.
According to this interpretation, it is the duty of a pious Jew to "place the blasphemer under a ban of excommunication." The belief in two powers, God and Satan, is also considered "blasphemy," for God is "Lord and Master of all." Ditto with the belief in Lucifer as a rebellious angel.
"False" or "meaningless" oaths taken in the name of God are also forbidden (except the Kol Nidre "prayer" said each year at Yom Kippur, wherein the pious can retract oaths made during the coming year).
"One who curses G-d in the name of idolatry is subject to being attacked and killed by zealots, who are, in turn, held harmless by the law."
Surprisingly, this Noahide Law is clarified by saying that one should refrain from insulting one's "fellow man," because "man was made in God's image," and hence one would be blaspheming. "Fellow man" evidently refers only to a pious Jew or Gentile Noahide.
While asserting that God is absolutely separate, such that worshipping "him" in the creation is "idolatry," this Noahide Law nonetheless paradoxically prescribes that one recognize the divine hand in everything and abstain as much as possible from speaking ill of any aspect of creation.
The Third Noahide Law
"Murder" is the subject of the third Noahide Law:
"Thou shall not shed innocent blood of an human or fetus nor ailing person who has a limited time to live."
This Law is based on Genesis 9:6:
"Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed."
Putting people to death for blaspheming the Name of the Omnipotent, who could not possibly be harmed by such assaults, would not constitute murder. Nor would it be "murder" to slaughter entire cultures (genocide) in that very same sacrosanct Name, as is the behavior of the "chosen people" depicted throughout the Old Testament. Such murder, as long as it is done by the group who makes up the rules, is apparently acceptable. Under this law, doctors who perform abortions, along with their nurses and the patients themselves, could also be put to death. Someone who strikes a woman and kills her fetus receives the death penalty, provided the fetus is more than 40 days old. If under 40 days old, it is considered the same as the "destruction of the man's seed," which is an offense to be judged in Heaven, not on Earth.
Euthanasia, or "mercy killing," no matter how much the suffering, is punishable by death. Although some authorities claim it is permissible to save a woman's life by aborting the fetus, others proscribe it. After much bickering, it is concluded that "spilling one's seed" or masturbating is "strictly forbidden," as it is equivalent to "murdering one's own children."
In other words, masturbation is punishable by death.
The Fourth Noahide Law
The Fourth Law is against "illicit sex":
"Thou shall not engage in bestial, incestuous, adulterous, or homosexual relations nor commit the act of rape."
This Law also proscribes "fornication," i.e., sex outside of marriage. However, polygamy - or more, appropriately, "polygyny," or "many wives" - is exempt from this law, as is the possession of "concubines." The determination of what is considered "sexually immoral" has been a cultural artifact, not a writ from "God." Cultures that have different sexual practices, such as the Tibetans, who for centuries practiced "polyandry," or "many husbands," would be considered deviant and criminal. The Tibetans had practical reasons for such practices: They lacked land and had to keep the population down. What is considered "adulterous" has likewise been culturally dependent. Under this Law, a man could get the death penalty for having sex with his mother-in-law, for example. Like the biblical scriptures, the Noahide laws do not proscribe lesbianism; however, it is considered immoral and against natural laws, upsetting the natural order. Male homosexuality, in whatever form and whether with an adult or child, consentual or rape, private or public, is punishable by death.
Under the Noahides, a man can have sex with the "Gentile wife of a Jew," because she is not really his wife and is therefore unmarried. A Jewish wife is off limits. A man may also practice sodomy or other non-vaginal relations with a married woman, and such will not be considered adultery.
The commentary on this Noahide relates:
"One who caresses a forbidden member of the opposite sex, or hugs or kisses in a manner of lust, or has close personal contact for the sake of pleasure, transgresses the commandment prohibiting forbidden relationships, but he is not punished by the courts. In all cases where the courts are not empowered to act, punishment is meted out by God."
One must also not flirt with a "forbidden woman" in any way, shape or form. More commentary:
"Relations with an animal are forbidden at any stage of the animal's maturity, even the day of its birth."
"Even the day of its birth" seems to imply there was doubt that it was wrong to have sex with an animal when it was newborn. "Incest" is permissible when not siblings are not maternally related:
"The Children of Noah are considered related only through the mother. Those on the father's side are not considered relatives. This means that a man's half-sister of the same father but a different mother is not considered related to him, and is permissible to him."
The Fifth Noahide Law
The fifth Law is against theft:
"Thou shall not steal."
The term "theft" is ambiguous, as one could easily argue the case that the Federal Reserve's business is "theft." While the Noahide cult considers "adultery" as the "theft" of the wife, it doesn't seem to recognize that taking sons and daughters away from their mothers and fathers, through warfare and the murder of "infidels," could also constitute "theft." Forcing people to conform to a belief in "God" or other intangible concept would seem to constitute "theft" of one's intellectual freedom. The theft of a woman during war is prohibited for Gentiles, or "Noahides" (i.e., "Children of Noah," Gentiles who follow the Noahide Laws; Jews who follow them are called "Israelites"). Under various circumstances, such as a "Milchamot Mitzvah," it is permissible for a Jew to steal a woman during war. The "Children of Noah" are forbidden to overcharge or engage in usury. Nothing is said of the "Children of Israel."
The justification for the death penalty for thieving is that the Noahide Courts are created to mete out justice so that the violator will not suffer punishment in the "World to Come," i.e., the afterlife.
"Because of the justice of the courts, therefore, a man can transgress and still receive a share of the World to Come as a righteous person."
It is further believed that at Rosh Hashanah, "God" decides what wealth one will acquire during the coming year, such that no one can change the outcome. Although this fact is not explicated upon in the Chabad exegesis of the Noahides, in Talmudic law there is a double standard as concerns theft, among other things.
In many cases, it is permissible for an Israelite to steal from a Gentile.
The Sixth Noahide Law
The sixth Noahide Law is:
"Thou shall not be cruel to animals."
This Law proscribes the "eating of the limb of a living animal," and incorporates Genesis 9:4:
"Only the flesh with the life thereof with the blood thereof thou shalt not eat."
It is sane and humane enough, although humans could be executed if convicted of cruelty to animals. It appears odd that it was necessary to create a law against the "eating the limb of a living animal," but apparently there was an epidemic of such behavior among the biblical people. It is evidently permissible under Mosaic Law to eat an animal after it has been ritually slaughtered, while its limbs are still moving (although it is not necessarily still alive, with brain activity). The debate over which was proper, Mosaic or Noahide law, is presented in the story of Joseph and his brothers, representing one of the reasons Joseph was sold into slavery. Unlike other ideologies, Judaism professes that animals have souls. (Latin: anima=soul)
This Law surely seems the sanest of the lot, sounding very Jainist in its call for not deliberately harming animals and suggestion that those who do so are spiritually unsound, except that it apparently allows for the flaying alive of an animal and use of its hide. Animals killed humanely are available to eat. Gentiles are punishable no matter what animal they "eat of the limb of," whereas Jews are guilty only if the animal is "spiritually clean," i.e., "those that have split hooves and chew their cud."
The justification for this Law is that the soul of the animal must be detached from the body before humans can eat it, because, while the flesh of a human and animal may become one, their souls must never merge.
The Seventh Noahide Law
The seventh Law discusses the establishment of "courts of justice":
"Thou shall establish laws and courts of law to administer these laws, including the death penalty for those who kill, administered only if there is one testifying witness."
These "courts of justice" would be based on the Noahide Laws. Harsh punishments, such as the death penalty for breaking any of these Laws, would be strictly enforced. According to some sources, Rebbe Menachem Schneerson's disciples will be the governors of these courts of justice. According to a Chabad opinion, a boy is liable at the age of 13, and a girl at 12, such that they could be executed at these ages. Any court that does not follow the Noahides is considered to be "an instrument for driving G-d's blessings out of the world." Failure to establish a Noahide court is punishable by death, as is the establishment of a court other than one based on the "Seven Universal Laws."
If a city does not institute justice according to the Noahide Laws, all inhabitants are liable. The only punishment meted out by the Noahide courts of law in criminal cases is the death penalty." The defendant, however, must be judged "mentally competent." Circumstantial evidence is admissible in a Noahide court. The death penalty for a murderer cannot be appealed and must be carried out swiftly.
Judges in the Noahide courts are to be chosen using strict criteria, including that they possess the following:
"a. wisdom b. humility c. fear of Heaven d. fear of Sin e. contempt for money f. love of truth g. beloved by his fellow man h. a good reputation"
"a. wisdom
b. humility
c. fear of Heaven
d. fear of Sin
e. contempt for money
f. love of truth
g. beloved by his fellow man
h. a good reputation"
A woman, however, may never be a judge, nor can a "slave," small child, "fool" or "the insane." Deaf mutes and the blind are also forbidden.
"Whoever disgraces himself publicly is disqualified as a witness. These are people who walk and eat in a coarse, impolite fashion in public, or who go naked in public, or who are involved in any disgusting work or activity, or anyone who feels no self-embarrassment. All these people are considered on the level of a dog, and we cannot trust them to be stringent against giving false testimony."
Although it seems incredible that these archaic and culturally biased laws could be applicable or relevant to 21st-century America, the wheels are apparently in motion. Such legislation as that passed under the elder George Bush is indicative of what the future holds, i.e., a fascist theocracy, in which the death penalty would be wielded freely. Who is Rebbe Schneerson?
Why Menachem Schneerson plays so central a role in this development is unclear, except that his followers - Hassidic Chabad-Lubavitcher Jews - at the time of Bush's resolution believed he was the Messiah. When Schneerson, a "direct descendant of King David," failed to rise from the dead three days after he died in June 12, 1994, it was clear he wasn't the Messiah, although some Lubavitchers still await his resurrection.
Other orthodox/religious Jews did not believe the tale. Allegedly Schneerson had declared prior to the Gulf War that Israel would be "the safest place in the world." When the war ended with very few Israeli casualties, the event was portrayed as miraculous and Schneerson as a great prophet. This event no doubt had something to do with Bush's virtual canonization of Schneerson, since the Gulf War was Bush's "baby."
It is interesting to note that the truce in the Persian Gulf War was called on March 3, 1991, just two days before the House passed the Noahide/Schneerson bill. Although supposedly only 100,000 strong worldwide, the Lubavitcher movement apparently has enormous clout and influence. Influenced by the Baal Shem Tov, a Polish-Jewish mystic of the 18th century, Chabad-Lubavitcher Chassidic Movement was founded by Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liadi, author of the "Tanya," the "Written Torah" of Chabad. Chabad-Lubavitch is an "international movement headquartered in New York."
It stresses "outreach" or "missionary" work and claims to have "propelled huge numbers to a deeper Jewish commitment," as well as to provide "powerful weapons in the War Against Assimilation.'"
In other words, its goal is to prevent Jews from becoming assimilated into "Gentile" culture. It also asserts that the,
"Judaism that makes peace with the world the way it stands now is not Judaism," and that "Kaballa is as central to Judaism as the sun is to the solar system, as a heart is to a body, as Human Liberty is to America."
"Kaballa," or Kabbalah/Cabala, etc., is the bizarre mystical system that Rabbi Lewis Browne declared was "plagiarized" from the Egyptian and Babylonian mystery schools. The Kaballa is considered the mystical system that will "accomplish G-d's will," as defined by the Lubavitchers. In regard to this goal of world domination, Rebbe Schneerson stated:
"The main avodah of this generation is to go out to the final war of the golus, to conquer and to purify all the gentile countries (such that 'and kingship will be Hashem's,' Ovadiah 1:21)." --Shabbos Parshas VaYelech, 5746. ("Avodah" means a "spiritual mission," "prayer service" or "cleaving unto God." The "golus" refers to the "exile," i.e., Jews living in the Gentile world. "Hashem" is the unnamed "name" of the Jewish God.)"Consequently, it is obvious and self-evident that in modern times we must carry out the Divine Command we received through Moshe [Moses]: 'To compel all human beings to accept the commandments enjoined upon the descendants of Noach.'" (Shabbos Parshas Tsav, 5747, Sichos in English, vol. 35, p. 75) "We must therefore deduce that this is an auspicious time to conquer the world with Torah and Yiddishkeit in a pleasant and peaceful way: 'All the land is before you.'" (Bereshis 13:9). ("Conquer the World with Torah: A Message to the Shluchim Convention," 5747, Sichos in English, vol. 33, p.270) "The Seven Laws must be explained in a way that the nations can relate to and, because non-Jews do not possess genuine free will, they will be willing to change more quickly and easily than a Jew." (Hisvaduyos 5748 3:183, cited in "The Deed is the Main Thing," Kol Boi Ha'olam, p. 385-386) "Even in the future, the nations will continue to exist, to serve and help the Jewish people. This, then, is our lesson - to increase our activities in the areas where the many will be influenced: Jews, the world, and the nations" (Shabbos Parshas Vayeishev, 21 Kislev, 5745)
"The main avodah of this generation is to go out to the final war of the golus, to conquer and to purify all the gentile countries (such that 'and kingship will be Hashem's,' Ovadiah 1:21)." --Shabbos Parshas VaYelech, 5746.
("Avodah" means a "spiritual mission," "prayer service" or "cleaving unto God." The "golus" refers to the "exile," i.e., Jews living in the Gentile world. "Hashem" is the unnamed "name" of the Jewish God.)"Consequently, it is obvious and self-evident that in modern times we must carry out the Divine Command we received through Moshe [Moses]: 'To compel all human beings to accept the commandments enjoined upon the descendants of Noach.'"
(Shabbos Parshas Tsav, 5747, Sichos in English, vol. 35, p. 75) "We must therefore deduce that this is an auspicious time to conquer the world with Torah and Yiddishkeit in a pleasant and peaceful way: 'All the land is before you.'"
(Bereshis 13:9). ("Conquer the World with Torah: A Message to the Shluchim Convention," 5747, Sichos in English, vol. 33, p.270) "The Seven Laws must be explained in a way that the nations can relate to and, because non-Jews do not possess genuine free will, they will be willing to change more quickly and easily than a Jew."
(Hisvaduyos 5748 3:183, cited in "The Deed is the Main Thing," Kol Boi Ha'olam, p. 385-386) "Even in the future, the nations will continue to exist, to serve and help the Jewish people. This, then, is our lesson - to increase our activities in the areas where the many will be influenced: Jews, the world, and the nations"
(Shabbos Parshas Vayeishev, 21 Kislev, 5745)
Other quotes at the Lubavitch Noahide site include the following by Yitzchok Dovid Smith, Esq., who speaks of:
". . . the Torah mandated role of Judaism as the only true religion for all of mankind, either as Jews or as Bnai Noach." (The "Bnai Noach" are the "children of Noah," i.e., Gentiles who adhere to the Noahide Laws.)
Smith continues:
"There is no room for dialogue with other religions, for the purification of Christianity or lost-ten-tribes theology. These falsehoods... are destructive anti-Torah viewpoints. The Rambam [Schneerson] writes that the time will come when Christians and Muslims will realize that their religions are false, and fault their forefathers for teaching it to them. They will accept the One G-d of the Jewish people, and all other religions, in any form or variation, will be abolished in their entirety. The time for this is now, and all other approaches only are intended to delay the revelation of the absolute Truth of Torah in the entire world." (Emphasis added.)
"There is no room for dialogue with other religions, for the purification of Christianity or lost-ten-tribes theology. These falsehoods... are destructive anti-Torah viewpoints. The Rambam [Schneerson] writes that the time will come when Christians and Muslims will realize that their religions are false, and fault their forefathers for teaching it to them.
They will accept the One G-d of the Jewish people, and all other religions, in any form or variation, will be abolished in their entirety. The time for this is now, and all other approaches only are intended to delay the revelation of the absolute Truth of Torah in the entire world." (Emphasis added.)
And another Lubavitcher article, "The Final War for Jerusalem," proclaims:
"In reality, neither the Jewish people nor the gentiles support the betrayal of Israel, and essentially all six billion gentiles are quite ready to ask the Jews for spiritual leadership in these times of darkness...."Judaism has always been a conquering religion, not for the purpose of converting gentiles to become Jews, but rather with the mission of returning the world to the universal covenant between G-d and Noah. For halachic reasons too numerous and detailed to list here, gentiles today who follow Christianity, Islam, or other religions are not, for the most part, "righteous gentiles" who inherit the World to Come. That status belongs only to those gentiles who carefully observe the Seven Laws of Noah, including following the halachic authority of the oral Torah and the rabbis...."And as the Lubavitcher Rebbe has explained, by transforming the gentiles we can quickly create a vast army of supporters who will help us reveal Moshiach and bring all Jews back to the Torah. Specifically, the Rebbe has emphasized that the "peace process" in Israel will be defeated only through our influence on the gentiles--especially through the campaign to teach the Noachide Laws...."Our most pressing task, to put it simply, is to launch an international Noachide revolution without delay. The process has already begun, with dozens of tiny Noachide communities having appeared throughout the United States, generally composed of former Christians who have abandoned that religion...."...the growing Noachide movement will seize political power--using only peaceful, lawful means--in the capitals of the Western nations. This, of course, will not take place until the Noachide society has grown to some threshold size. We do not know how large this needs to be nor which nations will join the revolution first, although the United States, as a fairly religious, conservative nation, certainly tops the list of prospects."
In Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel by Israel Shahak and Norton Mezvinsky, the authors are quoted in a review by Allan C. Brownfeld as relating the following quotes by Rebbe Schneerson:
"The difference between a Jewish and a non-Jewish person stems from the common expression: 'Let us differentiate.' Thus, we do not have a case of profound change in which a person is merely on a superior level. Rather, we have a case of 'let us differentiate' between totally different species. This is what needs to be said about the body: the body of a Jewish person is of a totally different quality from the body of [members] of all nations of the world. A non-Jew's entire reality is only vanity. It is written, 'And the strangers shall guard and feed your flocks' (Isaiah 61:5). The entire creation [of a non-Jew] exists only for the sake of the Jews."
"The difference between a Jewish and a non-Jewish person stems from the common expression: 'Let us differentiate.' Thus, we do not have a case of profound change in which a person is merely on a superior level. Rather, we have a case of 'let us differentiate' between totally different species.
This is what needs to be said about the body: the body of a Jewish person is of a totally different quality from the body of [members] of all nations of the world. A non-Jew's entire reality is only vanity. It is written, 'And the strangers shall guard and feed your flocks' (Isaiah 61:5). The entire creation [of a non-Jew] exists only for the sake of the Jews."
Brownfeld also writes:
What particularly concerns the authors [of Jewish Fundamentalism] is the total contempt which Jewish fundamentalists show toward non-Jews. Rabbi Kook the Elder, the revered father of the messianic tendency of Jewish fundamentalism, said, "The difference between a Jewish soul and souls of non-Jews all of them in all different levels is greater and deeper than the difference between a human soul and the souls of cattle."
Rabbi Kook's entire teaching, which is followed devoutly by, among others, those who have led the settler movement on the occupied West Bank, is based upon the Lurianic Cabbala, the school of Jewish mysticism that dominated Judaism from the late 16th to the early 19th century.
"One of the basic tenets of the Lurianic Cabbala," the authors write, "is the absolute superiority of the Jewish soul and body over the non-Jewish soul and body. According to the Lurianic Cabbala, the world was created solely for the sake of Jews; the existence of non-Jews was subsidiary. If an influential Christian bishop or Islamic scholar argued that the difference between the superior souls of non-Jews and the inferior souls of Jews was greater than the difference between the human soul and souls of cattle, he would incur the wrath of all and be viewed as an anti-Semite by most Jewish scholars regardless of whatever less meaningful, positive statements he included."
"One of the basic tenets of the Lurianic Cabbala," the authors write, "is the absolute superiority of the Jewish soul and body over the non-Jewish soul and body. According to the Lurianic Cabbala, the world was created solely for the sake of Jews; the existence of non-Jews was subsidiary.
If an influential Christian bishop or Islamic scholar argued that the difference between the superior souls of non-Jews and the inferior souls of Jews was greater than the difference between the human soul and souls of cattle, he would incur the wrath of all and be viewed as an anti-Semite by most Jewish scholars regardless of whatever less meaningful, positive statements he included."
Brownfeld further states:
Rabbi Schneerson always supported Israeli wars and opposed any retreat. In 1974 he strongly opposed the Israeli withdrawal from the Suez area. He promised Israel divine favors if it persisted in occupying the land. After his death, thousands of his Israeli followers played an important role in the election victory of Binyamin Netanyahu. Among the religious settlers in the occupied territories, the Chabad Hassids constitute one of the most extreme groups. Baruch Goldstein, the mass murderer of Palestinians, was one of them.
Rabbi Schneerson always supported Israeli wars and opposed any retreat. In 1974 he strongly opposed the Israeli withdrawal from the Suez area. He promised Israel divine favors if it persisted in occupying the land. After his death, thousands of his Israeli followers played an important role in the election victory of Binyamin Netanyahu.
Among the religious settlers in the occupied territories, the Chabad Hassids constitute one of the most extreme groups. Baruch Goldstein, the mass murderer of Palestinians, was one of them.
Rabbi Yitzhak Ginsburgh, who wrote a chapter of a book in praise of Goldstein and what he did, is another member of this group. An immigrant to Israel from the U.S., Rabbi Ginsburgh speaks freely of Jews' genetic-based, spiritual superiority over non-Jews.
"If you saw two people drowning, a Jew and a non-Jew, the Torah says you save the Jewish life first," Ginsburgh states. "If every simple cell in a Jewish body entails divinity, is a part of God, then every strand of DNA is part of God. Therefore, something is special about Jewish DNA "If a Jew needs a liver, can you take the liver of an innocent non-Jew passing by to save him? The Torah would probably permit that. Jewish life has an infinite value."
"If you saw two people drowning, a Jew and a non-Jew, the Torah says you save the Jewish life first," Ginsburgh states.
"If every simple cell in a Jewish body entails divinity, is a part of God, then every strand of DNA is part of God. Therefore, something is special about Jewish DNA
"If a Jew needs a liver, can you take the liver of an innocent non-Jew passing by to save him? The Torah would probably permit that. Jewish life has an infinite value."
A "Powerless Minority"?
There is apparently a concerted and effective effort to compel the world's governments to establish the oppressive Noahide Laws as the "law of the land." The non-Jewish politicians' motivation in joining with these efforts evidently comes from not only material "incentives" but also "spiritual" benefits.
The Chabad website relates:
"When one of the Children of Noah [Goy] engages in the study of the Seven Universal Laws, he is able to attain a spiritual level higher than the High Priest of the Jews, who alone has the sanctity to enter the Holy of Holies in the Temple in Jerusalem."
In addition, Schneerson's "Education Day" honor was presented because of his efforts to bring education of "the people" to the forefront. Schneerson is depicted as being a great lover of "humankind."
However, as reported in the New Republic, May 4, 1992, the Chabad-Lubavitch interpretation of "humankind" is right in line with their "sacred texts" that constitute the Talmud: To wit, "humankind" does not refer to non-believers in the Law.
Furthermore, it is reported that in an article in The New York Times, May 27, 1996, Israeli columnist Ari Shavit wrote, concerning the killing of more than 100 Lebanese civilians in April of that year:
"We killed them out of a certain naive hubris. Believing with absolute certitude that now with the White House, the Senate and much of the American media in our hands, the lives of others do not count so much as our own."
In consideration of the dangerous factors outlined here, it is crucial that people examine their belief systems, especially those promulgated by the monolithic religions such as Christianity, Judaism and Islam.
Each of these ideologies is despotic and designed as a method to control the masses, as well as to pit them against each other.
Return to Temas / Misticismo
Return to The New World Order
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to Los Nazarenos y La Biblia
Return to Gods and Religions on Planet Earth
Return to Global Religion - La Religion Global
Return to The Protocols of The Learned Elders of Zion
