# Ancient Egyptian History

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/crystal_tablet/tsrl01.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 1
Ancient Egyptian History
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c)
Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version by TS
permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
Ancient Egypt holds the distinction of being both the first true nation (as opposed to city-state) and the most enduring one - existing three times as long as the Roman Empire and fifteen times as long as the United States. Many of the political and social principles which sustained Egypt are being adapted for contemporary applications by the Temple of Set. Many Egyptian cultural and scientific achievements, some long forgotten or neglected, are also of special importance when considered in the light of related areas of Setian concern.
Because of its undeniable grandeur and mystery, Egypt has been sadly abused by occultists and sensationalists of later eras. Hence it is all the more incumbent upon Setians to observe responsible standards of accuracy when referring to the present Temple's ancient heritage. 1A. "The Mummy" by E.A. Wallis Budge. NY: Collier Books, 1973. (TS-2)
MA: "This book contains sections on history, magic, culture, and hieroglyphics. The late Keeper of Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities for the British Museum (and rumored initiate of the Golden Dawn), Budge has written many detailed works on Egyptology. Their shortcomings are minor: an overemphasis on Osirian interpretation of philosophy and occasional questionable assumptions (generally educated guesses based on whatever fragmentary archeological data were available during his lifetime). "The Mummy" is a good 'basic Budge'. Written at the beginning of this century, however, it is necessarily dated. Its contents are best updated by comparison with recent theories contained in more modern works." 1B. "Egypt the Black Land" by Paul Jordan. NY: E.P. Dutton, 1976. (TS-2)
MA: "Jordan is a writer and producer of archeological films for television, specializing in Egyptology. This book, with chapters on history, society, religion, morality, technical/scientific achievement, and philosophy, is an excellent survey incorporating recent archeological data. Technical assistance from the Royal Scottish Museum's Cyril Aldred.
A good work to cross-reference with #1A. Many beautiful photographs are included." 1C. "The Larousse Encyclopedia of Ancient and Medieval History" by Marcel Dunn (Ed.). NY: Harper & Row, 1963 [reprinted 1972 (paperback) by Crown]. (TS-3)
MA: "The Egyptian section of this book is remarkably succinct and objective, which accounts for its inclusion in this category. An additional benefit is that the book is written sequentially, so that an episode occurring in one part of the world may be followed by an episode taking place in another area at the same point in time. The general library value of this book extends far beyond its Egyptological applications. Indeed, Setians would do well to familiarize themselves with the Larousse series, including such Encyclopedias as #3R, #24A/B/C, and "Modern History" (companion to #1C)." 1D. "Egypt Under the Pharaohs" by Heinrich Brugsch-Bey. NY: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1891. (TS-4)
MA: "Brugsch-Bey was one of Germany's most prominent Egyptologists of the last century. This book was his final publication, and in it he endeavored to derive a history of Egypt entirely from the inscriptions on its surviving monuments. Since most of the inscriptions are quoted in the text, the reader has a means of assessing the author's conclusions - a rare luxury in Egyptology. The book is understandably dated and should be compared with works incorporating more recent data." 1E. "The Curse of the Pharaohs" by Philipp Vandenberg. NY: J.B. Lippincott Company, 1975 [paperback reprint available]. (TS-3)
MA: "Although written in a van Daeniken-sensationalistic flavor, this book contains some interesting observations concerning Egyptian magic, priesthoods, tomb preparation techniques [including anti-grave-robber devices], and some of the major Egyptologists. Care is required to distinguish worthwhile lines of inquiry from the author's more fanciful speculations." 1F. "Secrets of the Great Pyramid" by Peter Tompkins. NY: Harper & Row, 1971 [paperback reprint available]. (TS-3) (OT-3)
MA: "This is the most comprehensive analysis to date of the Great Pyramid of Giza. [See also #1K.] It contains a sophisticated discussion of the scientific and mathematical principles incorporated in the monument, as well as a history of archaeological attitudes towards it. Extensively illustrated. It should not be confused with the many 'pyramid fad' books appearing shortly thereafter. Tompkins has written a companion volume on obelisks, as well as one devoted to pyramid structures in the western hemisphere: "Mysteries of the Mexican Pyramids" (NY: Harper & Row, 1976). While not as impressive as the information concerning the Giza pyramids, this material is also worthy of study by those interested in architectural magic in general.
Some provocative additional material concerning the Great Pyramid is contained in "The Mysteries of the Great Pyramids" by A. Pochan (NY: Avon #31492, 1978." 1G. "The Pyramids" by Ahmed Fakhry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1961. (TS-3)
MA: "Fakhry (1905-1973) was Professor of Ancient History at Cairo University. This book is a thorough survey of all the major Egyptian pyramids, with supplementary chapters on building processes, the Giza Sphinx, and related philosophy. His approach is essentially unsympathetic to those who 'read mysticism into' the monuments; hence this book is a good contrast to #1F. Nevertheless it is evident that Fakhry ignores data that do not support his solidly-materialistic approach." 1H. "Lives of the Pharaohs" by Pierre Montet. Cleveland: World Publishing Company, 1969. (TS-3)
MA: "Montet is a Member of the French Institute and Honorary Professor at the College de France. Rather than attempting to cover Egyptian history in its entirely, he focuses on the more significant periods, governments, philosophies, and rulers. The result is a book with major insights into such episodes as the Hebrew exodus, the Akhenaten period, and the Setian dynasties. After reading this book, you will be able to see the Osirian distortions in most of the less exactingly researched histories." 1I. "A Book of the Beginnings" by Gerald Massey. Seacaucus, NJ: University Books, 1974. (TS-4)
MA: "A two-volume edition of about 1,200 pages. Massey was a poet and amateur Egyptologist in turn-of-the-century England, and this work was the first of his series on the topic. It was so radical a departure from accepted archaeological interpretations that it was rejected in academic circles.
The book's contentions are often startling, but Massey documents his arguments so thoroughly and carefully that criticism is decidedly difficult. He is further an accomplished linguist, reading and cross-referencing hieroglyphics fluently. Among the topics addressed: Egypt's connections with later civilizations' mythologies, Egyptian origins of practically every Hebrew and Christian myth, Egyptian origin of the Hebrew language, the Setian religion as the most ancient in existence, the Hyksos not outside invaders but rather an indigenous Egyptian group, and periodic Setian/Osirian factional control of the nation." 1J. "The Natural Genesis" by Gerald Massey. NY: Samuel Weiser, 1976 [two volumes]. (TS-4)
MA: "Massey considered this as the 'second half' of #1I. It continues the same themes, with the noteworthy addition of an extensive and exhaustive chapter on Darkness and Setian symbolism in ancient Egypt.
Also included are many investigations into the cults of HarWer and Xepera, animalistic influences on primitive human psychology, and physiological influences on mythical systems. There are innumerable surprise tidbits along the way, such as evidence for the Egyptian origins of the waters of ZamZam [see #6L]. A linguistic comparison of Sanskrit and Egyptian hieroglyphics [no mean feat!] is appended. 1,050 pages." 1K. "Ancient Egypt, the Light of the World" by Gerald Massey. NY: Samuel Weiser, 1976 [two volumes]. (TS-4)
MA: "Massey's final work, originally published in 1907. In the introduction he said: 'Comparatively speaking, "A Book of the Beginnings" was written in the dark, "The Natural Genesis" was written in the twilight, whereas "Ancient Egypt" has been written in the light of day.'
This work covers much the same ground as his earlier editions, but it includes a major attack on Hebrew/Christian mythology. One suspects that this may be the reason for the reluctance of Western society to accept, much less endorse Massey; those who interrupt soothing fictions with irritating facts are rarely welcome. 944 pages. [In 1974 Samuel Weiser also published "Gerald Massey's Lectures" in hardcover. This volume is recommended as a supplement to Massey's theoretical works, since it comments upon their theses in a series of lecture texts. It will not be very intelligible to the reader who has not previously read #1I/J/K, however.]" 1L. "Pyramid Odyssey" by Wm. R. Fix. NY: Mayflower Books, 1978. (TS-3)
MA: "Recommended as supplementary reading to #1F. Fix is the first author to make a critical analysis of Tompkins' contentions concerning the Pyramids. In doing so he traveled to Giza and discovered that many facts concerning the Pyramids' measurements which were taken for granted by various authors are unsubstantiated by first-hand measurement. Fix also details various discoveries concerning the monuments which do not appear in other works on the subject. Fix himself is an amateur rather than a professional Egyptologist or archeologist, but his arguments are impressive for the obvious care with which they are constructed. [See also #2O.]" 1M. "Egypt Before the Pharaohs" by Michael A. Hoffman. NY: Alfred A. Knopf, 1979. (TS-4)
MA: "An academic, archeological text written in language intelligible and meaningful to the layman. This is the first modern, coherent treatment of Egyptian history and prehistory ca. 700,000 BCE to 3100 BCE and includes interesting evidence and speculations concerning the origins of the Egyptians' religious and philosophical traditions, including the predynastic influence of the Set and Horus cults. Author a Ph.D. in Anthropology and a Professor at the University of Virginia."
