# ANSER

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/elite/ANSER.htm

ANSER
(The ANSER Institute for
Homeland Security is distinct from ANSER as a whole. Although there is some
crossover with the trustees of ANSER, this `mother’ institute is far wider
ranging. See: http://www.homelandsecurity.org/ for
the Homeland Security department )
ANSER is a public-service research institute, an independent, not- for-profit corporation chartered in California with the assistance of the RAND Corporation in 1958.
The Air Force needed a technically qualified, objective organization close to the Pentagon, able to respond on a day-to-day basis to identified needs for unbiased studies and analyses. ANSER has always served the national interest by expanding capabilities, enriching staff, and moving in new directions as current and future clients alter the course and content of their missions. It values flexibility, professionalism, and continuous learning as it strives to enlarge its contributions to public service.
The company is governed by a Board of Trustees from business, public service, academia, and military affairs. From the beginning, the Board has played an active role in ensuring that operations are in the public interest and meet consistently high standards of excellence, objectivity, and utility.
ANSER became a Federal Contract Research Center (FCRC) when those were created (nine such organizations, including RAND, Aerospace, MITRE, CNA, and Lincoln Laboratory) shortly after ANSER came into existence. As such, it served a single client (the Air Force Director of Development Planning, later the Deputy Chief of Staff/Research and Development) and was restricted to only modest growth.
After changing its status in 1976, dropping the FCRC designation, ANSER began work for numerous Air Force organizations, other Department of Defense components, and other Federal agencies. In 1983, the Secretary of the Air Force wrote, "ANSER studies and technical approaches have served to illuminate ... issues related to the research, development and acquisition of almost every major Air Force weapon system over the past quarter of a century. ANSER's work has been marked by quality, responsiveness, and objectivity ..."
The company now provides analytic and technical support to Federal agencies in the areas of aerospace systems development, acquisition, operations, requirements definition, technology evaluation, testing, and planning; aerospace science and technology program planning and management; information systems planning and acquisition; C3I program planning; and foreign technology analyses. ANSER uses a flexible, impartial, multidisciplinary approach to complex problems, often on a quick-response basis.
ANSER has grown as its type of work and workload have increased: from 35 employees at the beginning to more than 100 in 1976, 150 in 1981, 450 in 1991, and to 718 in 2000. Revenue has grown correspondingly from less than $1M in FY59 to $2.7M in FY76, $7.5M in FY81, $45M in FY91, and $70M in FY99.
The company maintains its home office in Arlington, VA. As its work and contract base have evolved, field offices have provided essential support. Currently ANSER has offices in Colorado Springs, CO; Newport News, VA; Stoneham, MA; and Fairmont, WV.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/history.htm
Dr. Robert M.
Oliver
Dr. Robert Oliver received a B.S. degree in physics and a Ph.D. in operations research from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1951 and 1957, respectively. He was a Fulbright Scholar at the University of London during 1953 and 1954.
Dr. Oliver is now Chairman of the Board of the Fair Isaac Companies of San Rafael, California, and Emeritus Professor of Engineering Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley.
In 1953, Dr. Oliver was a senior engineer at Goodyear Aircraft Corporation and, from 1954 to 1957, a consultant for Melpar. From 1957 to 1960, he was a division director and member of the Board of Directors at the Broadview Research Corporation.
Dr. Oliver joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley in 1961 as an associate professor in engineering science and operations research. He was named Chairman of the Department of Industrial Engineering in 1964, Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in 1965, Director of the Operations Research Center in 1972, and Associate Dean, Research and Development in 1981. From 1985 to 1990, Dr. Oliver was Associate Dean of the College of Engineering.
Dr. Oliver was President (1973–74) of the Operations Research Society of America and is a former member of the Operations Research Society of the United Kingdom, Institute of Management Sciences, Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics, and Sigma Xi. In 1998, he was elected Trustee of the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute. He serves on the science advisory panels for the Office of Naval Research and the National Research Council. He has served as board member of various professional organizations and as Board Chairman of the Berkeley Repertory Theatre.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
In October 1998, Dr. David became president and chief executive officer of ANSER, an independent, non-profit, public service research institution that provides research and analytic support on national and transnational issues. In November 1999, Dr. David initiated ANSER's Homeland Defense Strategic Thrust to address the growing national concern of multi-dimensional, asymmetric threats from rogue nations, sub-state terrorist groups, and domestic terrorists. In May 2001, the ANSER Institute of Homeland Security was established to enhance public awareness and education and contribute to the dialog on a national, state, and local level.
From September 1995 to September 1998, Dr. David was Deputy Director for Science and Technology at the Central Intelligence Agency. As Technical Advisor to the Director of Central Intelligence, she was responsible for research, development, and deployment of technologies in support of all phases of the intelligence process. She represented the CIA on numerous national committees and advisory bodies, including the National Science and Technology Council and the Committee on National Security. Upon her departure from this position, she was awarded the CIA's Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the CIA Director's Award, the Director of NSA Distinguished Service Medal, the National Reconnaissance Officer's Award for Distinguished Service, and the Defense Intelligence Director's Award.
Previously, Dr. David served in several leadership positions at the Sandia National Laboratories, where she began her professional career in 1975. Most recently, she was Director of Advanced Information Technologies. From 1991 to 1994, Dr. David was Director of the Development Testing Center that developed and operated a broad spectrum of full-scale engineering test facilities.
Dr. David is a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the Corporation for the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc. She serves on the National Security Agency Advisory Board, the National Research Council Naval Studies Board, and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Technical Advisory Group. She previously served on the Defense Science Board, Department of Energy Nonproliferation and National Security Advisory Committee, and the Securities and Exchange Commission Technical Advisory Group. She is a former adjunct professor at the University of New Mexico and has technical experience in digital and microprocessor-based system design, digital signal analysis, adaptive signal analysis, and system integration. She is an Associate Fellow of AIAA, a Principal on the Council for Excellence in Government, a Class Director for the AFCEA International Board of Directors, and a member of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society and Eta Kappa Nu Electrical Engineering Society.
Dr. David received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Wichita State University (1975), an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1976), and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1981).
Dr. David frequently provides speeches, interviews, lectures, briefings, and articles on the many facets of homeland security. She is the coauthor of three books on Signal Processing Algorithms and has authored or coauthored numerous papers.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/davidbio.htm
**
Dr. Jay C. Davis is National Security Fellow at the Center for Global Security Research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. For the three years prior to rejoining Livermore in July of 2001, he served as the founding Director of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency of the Department of Defense.
Dr. Davis received his B.A. in physics from the University of Texas in 1963, an M.A. in physics from the University of Texas in 1964, and his Ph.D. in physics from the University of Wisconsin in 1969.
From 1969 to 1971, he was an Atomic Energy Commission Postdoctoral Fellow in nuclear physics at the University of Wisconsin. At Livermore since 1971, he has worked as a research scientist and as an engineering manager, having led the design and construction of several unique accelerator facilities used for basic and applied research. In the 1970s, he was principal scientist and project manager for the design and construction of the Rotating Target Neutron Source–II Project, building the most intense 14-million-electron-volt neutron sources in existence, used for nine years by the United States and Japan for fusion materials testing. In the 1980s he became the founding Director of the Center for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry, building the most versatile and productive accelerator mass spectrometry lab in the world. The Center for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry is used by all nine campuses of the University of California and several hundred external collaborators and users. Dr. Davis played a major role in the application of accelerator mass spectrometry to the biosciences, particularly in low-level toxicology and in dose reconstruction from events such as Hiroshima, Nagasaki, and Chernobyl. In 1994, he was asked to merge several research organizations at Livermore to create the Earth and Environmental Sciences Directorate. In 1998, he became the first Director of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, integrating DoD’s technical and operational activities to deal with weapons of mass destruction. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency is a combat support agency working across the spectrum of arms and export controls, cooperative threat reduction, and defense and offense against weapons of mass destruction both domestically and abroad.
Dr. Davis has authored over eighty publications on research in nuclear physics, nuclear instrumentation, plasma physics, accelerator design and technology, nuclear analytical techniques and analytical methods, and treaty verification technologies. He holds patents on spectrometer technologies and methods for low-level dosimetry of carcinogens and mutagens and for the study of metabolic processes. He has been a scientific advisor to the UN Secretariat and has served on advisory committees for the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organization, and the Institute for Nuclear and Geologic Sciences of New Zealand. He has been a consultant to Exxon Production Research Corporation and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. He is on advisory bodies for the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Nuclear Security Administration. He has served as a visiting professor at Texas A&M (chemistry) and Angelo State University (government). He is on the Board of Directors of the Fannie and John Hertz Foundation.
Dr. Davis participated in two UN inspections of Iraq in the summer of 1991, having major operational and scientific responsibilities in the inspection process. He was selected as the only non-UN member of the team that briefed the UN Security Council after the confrontation at Fallujah on June 28, 1991, that produced the conclusive evidence of Iraqi evasion of the inspection process and violation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Dr. Davis was Phi Beta Kappa and a Junior Fellow of the College of Arts and Sciences at Texas. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and was one of its Centennial Lecturers in its Hundredth Anniversary Year. For his contributions to national security during his tenure at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, he was twice awarded the Distinguished Public Service Medal, DoD’s highest civilian award. His current interests are homeland defense, nuclear and biological forensics, applications of accelerator technologies to multidisciplinary research, and strategic planning and management of change in organizations.
Dr. Davis was born in Haskell, Texas, on 12 July 1942.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/davisbio.htm
He also serves on the Board of Advisors for the ANSER Institute for Homeland Security: http://www.homelandsecurity.org/about.cfm
**
Gen (ret.) Monroe
W. Hatch, Jr.
General Monroe Hatch received a B.S. degree from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1955 and an M.S. degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Oklahoma in 1969. He completed the National War College in 1974. He is a member of the Tau Beta Pi and Sigma Gamma Tau honor societies.
General Hatch is a retired four-star general. His military career began with assignment as a tactical missile guidance officer at Sembach Air Base, Germany. He followed this with pilot training and subsequently amassed more than 6,000 flying hours in the B-47, B-52, CT-39, and EC-135 aircraft. He has held numerous positions on the staffs at Headquarters Strategic Air Command (SAC), Offutt Air Force Base; at Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, DC; and in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. These positions included duties involving research and development, space systems, acquisition, and strategic plans and analysis. Additionally, he was the Commander, 14th Air Division, Beale Air Force Base; Chief of Staff, SAC; Inspector General, USAF; and Vice Commander in Chief, SAC. Prior to his retirement in 1990, he served as Vice Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force.
After retiring from the Air Force, General Hatch became Executive Director of the 175,000-member Air Force Association and its affiliate, the Aerospace Education Foundation. He served in this position until October 1995. General Hatch heads his own consulting business and continues as a member of the Board of Directors of the Air Force Association. He also serves as a Trustee/Director of the Falcon Foundation (U.S. Air Force Academy), the Fisher House Foundation (New York), the College of Aeronautics (New York), and AFBA Five Star Fund, Inc. (Maryland).
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Dr. Miriam John has a B.S. degree in chemistry from Rice University (1970), an M.S. degree in chemical engineering from Tulane University (1972), and a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from Princeton University (1977).
Dr. John is Vice President of Sandia’s California Division. The principal programs of the division, located in Livermore, CA, include nuclear weapons stewardship, weapons demilitarization, chemical/biological weapons defense, combustion and materials research, advanced lithography development, micro-chemical and remote laser–based chemical detection, and distributed, secure advanced computational and information systems.
In her previous position as Director of the Center for Exploratory Systems and Development, Dr. John led a multidisciplinary organization of physical scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and computer scientists whose mission is to undertake major new initiatives for the California Division. Areas of emphasis included weapons of mass destruction nonproliferation and counterproliferation, unmanned aerial vehicle–based measurements to support global climate change studies and nonproliferation applications, computational biochemistry, laser remote sensing and biological-based microsensor development, weapons demilitarization systems development, nuclear weapon use control component development, and Department of Energy complex system modeling.
In parallel, Dr. John led Sandia’s Chemical and Biological Defense Program and Demilitarization Program. She served as the senior management lead for Sandia’s µChemLab Program, a $20 million laboratory-directed research and development investment to produce a complete analytical “lab on a chip” for multiple defense, environmental, and medical applications.
Prior to her current position, Dr. John served in a number of managerial and technical roles for the laboratory, including nuclear weapons development, systems analysis, and thermal analysis/fluid mechanics research and development. Her management assignments built on a technical foundation of research in experimental and theoretical studies in heterogeneous catalysis, thermodynamics, and multiphase reacting flow and postdoctoral and initial Sandia assignments in alternative energy concepts analysis and simulation.
Concurrent with her Sandia assignments, Dr. John has been recruited for a number of defense community efforts. She is a member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s Naval Studies Board. She is a three-year member of the Department of Defense Chemical, Biological, and Nuclear Technology Area Review and Assessment panel. She has also served on several Defense Science Board summer and task force studies. Other Department of Defense support activities have included membership on the Independent Assessment Team for the Short-Range Attack Missile II Program, Project Officer for the W89/Short-Range Attack Missile II Program, member of the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization’s Phase One Engineering Team, and chair of the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization’s Technical Advisory Group for Directed Energy Weapon Concept Studies.
Dr. John has served on the Advisory Board for the Department of Chemical Engineering at Princeton and is a recent recruit to the Executive Advisory Committee for the National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center for Environmentally Responsible Solvents and Processes at North Carolina State University/University of North Carolina. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of ANSER Corporation.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Mr. Franklin D. Kramer is a partner in the Washington, DC, law firm of Shea & Gardner. Mr. Kramer specializes in strategic planning, corporate and international transactions and trade, government contracts, and acquisitions and finance. Mr. Kramer has unique experience in the international, high-technology, and defense sectors. He has twice previously been at Shea & Gardner.
Mr. Kramer has extensive government experience. From March 1996 to February 2001, he served as the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. As Assistant Secretary, Mr. Kramer was in charge of formulating and implementing international defense and political-military policy, with worldwide responsibilities, including Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. From January to March 1996, while awaiting Senate confirmation, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European and NATO Affairs. From 1977 to 1981, Mr. Kramer served at the Department of Defense as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs (1979–1981) and as Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs (1977–1979).
Mr. Kramer is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Naval Analyses, a principal on the Council for Excellence in Government, and on the Board of Directors of the World Affairs Council of Washington, DC. He is on the Strategic Advisory Council for Lockheed Martin Corporation and on the Board of Trustees of ANSER. He has also been the President of the World Affairs Council of Washington, DC, an advisory board member for the Center for National Policy, a member of the Technical Advisory Committee for the Center for Naval Analyses’ Strategic Policy Analysis Group, and a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies.
Mr. Kramer has received the Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service Award, which is DoD’s highest civilian award, on three occasions. He received the Order of National Security Merit, Gungseon Medal, from the Republic of Korea. The Government of Poland and the Government of Hungary presented him with special awards for his role in bringing them into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Mr. Kramer received his B.A. degree cum laude from Yale University in 1967 and earned his Juris Doctor degree magna cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1971. From 1970 to 1971, he was Executive Editor of the Harvard Law Review. From 1971 to 1972, he was clerk to the Honorable J. Edward Lumbard of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Mr. Kramer was born in Liberty, New York, on 13 November 1945.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Dr. Robert Lucky attended Purdue University, where he received a B.S. degree in electrical engineering in 1957 and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1959 and 1961.
Dr. Lucky then joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, NJ. He studied ways of sending digital information over telephone lines and invented the adaptive equalizer—a technique for correcting distortion in telephone signals that is used in all high-speed data transmission today. The textbook on data communications he co-authored became the most cited reference in the communications field over a decade.
At Bell Labs he moved up to become Executive Director of the Communications Sciences Research Division in 1982, where he was responsible for research on methods and technologies for future communication systems. In 1992, he left Bell Labs to assume his present position at Bellcore.
Dr. Lucky has been active in professional activities and has served as President of the Communications Society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and as Vice President and Executive Vice President of the parent IEEE itself. He has been editor of several technical journals, including the Proceedings of the IEEE, and, since 1982, for Spectrum magazine, he has written the bimonthly “Reflections” column of personalized observations about the engineering profession. In 1993 the “Reflections” columns were collected in the IEEE Press book Lucky Strikes … Again.
Dr. Lucky is a Fellow of the IEEE, is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, was Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Air Force from 1986 to 1989, and has served on advisory boards and committees of many universities and government organizations. In 1987, he received the prestigious Marconi Prize for his contributions to data communications. He was awarded honorary doctorates from Purdue University and the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the Edison Medal of the IEEE, and the Exceptional Civilian Contributions Medal of the U.S. Air Force. He is also a consulting editor for a series of books on communications through Plenum Press.
Dr. Lucky is a frequent speaker before both scientific and general audiences. He has been an invited lecturer at about one hundred universities and has been a guest on network television shows, including Bill Moyers’ A World of Ideas, where he discussed the impacts of future technological advances. He is the author of the popular book Silicon Dreams, which is a semi- technical and philosophical discussion of the ways in which humans and computers deal with information.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/luckybio.htm
**
Dr. Albert Madansky received degrees in statistics (B.A. in 1952, M.S. in 1955, and Ph.D. in 1958) from the University of Chicago.
He joined RAND in 1957, where he primarily worked on statistical problems and studies of missile reliability and linear programming under uncertainty. He left RAND in 1965 to become Vice President of the Interpublic Group of Companies, a large marketing communications firm, in New York. From 1968 to 1971, he was President of Dataplan, Inc., a data- processing, systems analysis, and research subsidiary of Informatics in New York.
In 1971, Dr. Madansky became Professor and Chairman of the Department of Computer Science at the City College of New York. In 1975, he became Professor of Business Administration and Director, Center for Public and Nonprofit Enterprise, Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago. In 1986, he accepted the position of Associate Dean for Ph.D. Studies and in 1990 became Deputy Dean. He became Director of the Center for International Business Education and Research in 1993. His interests include multivariate analysis and mathematical models in the social sciences. In 1961–1962, he was a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and he is a Fellow of the American Statistical Association, the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, and the Econometric Society.
Dr. Madansky serves as Board Member of Madansky and Associates, Inc., and Analytical Computing Service, Inc. Also, he is consultant to the National Academy of Science, RAND Corporation (a not-for-profit corporation), and various law firms in the area of antitrust litigation.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Dr. Allen Stubberud received a B.S. in electrical engineering from the University of Idaho in 1956 and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1958 and 1962, respectively.
Dr. Stubberud spent 7 years on the engineering faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles, advancing to the rank of Associate Professor. In 1969, he transferred to the University of California, Irvine campus, where he held the position of Associate Dean and then Dean of Engineering from 1972 to 1983. He is now Chair and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Acting Dean of Engineering. Dr. Stubberud was also Acting Dean of Engineering during the fall quarter of 1990.
In 1983, Dr. Stubberud was appointed Chief Scientist of the U.S. Air Force, an advisory position to the Air Force Chief of Staff that he held for 2 years. While in this position, he was involved technically in several programs and projects involving command, control, communications, and intelligence. From 1986 to 1990, he remained active in the technical affairs of the Air Force as a member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board and four Air Force Division Advisory Groups, two of which he chaired. In these capacities, he was involved in several major Air Force studies on software, space-based radar, integrated avionics, air-to-surface conventional munitions, electronic combat, and the C-17 digital flight control system. He was reappointed to the Scientific Advisory Board on 1 October 1992 for a 4-year term.
During 1987–1988, Dr. Stubberud was Director of the Division of Electrical, Communications, and Systems Engineering at the National Science Foundation. In this position, he was responsible for the selection of recipients of National Science Foundation research grants, primarily Electrical Engineering faculty members, in the amount of almost $50 million.
Dr. Stubberud has been an active researcher in the areas of estimation, control, and systems theory and has published over 150 papers, reports, books, and book chapters in the open literature.
He is a Fellow of the New York Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and twice a recipient of the Air Force Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service. He is an Associate Fellow of the AAS and a member of the Air Force Association, the Operations Research Society of America, Sigma Tau, Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Xi, and Eta Kappa Nu.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/stubberudbio.htm
**
Mr. James Troutman studied engineering at Hannibal La–Grange College and received a B.S. degree at the U.S. Naval Academy in 1952. He is a graduate of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.
Mr. Troutman was an electronics engineer and intelligence analyst on active duty in the Air Force from 1952 to 1956. In 1957, he worked as a senior engineer and operations research analyst for Corvey Engineering Company and then joined the Scientific Analysis Office of Melpar, Inc., where he worked on studies of Air Force tactical and strategic forces for the DCS/ RD&A, Headquarters USAF.
As Assistant to ANSER’s President during the organization of ANSER in 1958, Mr. Troutman helped establish ANSER’s personnel and administrative policies. During 1959 and 1960, he also was key analyst for the major Air Force–wide Strategic Offense Force Study. He was elected ANSER’s Corporate Secretary in 1960 and served for 28 years as one of ANSER’s principal corporate officers with major responsibilities centered on corporate matters and general management. Mr. Troutman was responsible for ANSER’s overall technical support and administrative operations—including personnel administration and recruiting, professional activities, industrial security, technical libraries, publications, corporate records and communications, and other functions supporting ANSER’s research programs. He also performed corporate duties normally incident to the office of Secretary. He became Vice President for Finance and Administration in 1980, Senior Vice President Administration and Secretary in October 1985, and Senior Vice President Administration until his retirement in November 1988.
Mr. Troutman is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society (and former National Director 1964–76, Treasurer 1962–64), a member of RESA (Sigma Xi), and a colonel (retired) in the U.S. Air Force Reserve (former Commander of the Air Force Intelligence Service reservists supporting the ACS/I, Headquarters, USAF, and former Chairman, AFIS/RE Board of Advisors). He held a position in the National Defense Executive Reserve of the Federal Emergency Management Agency from 1989–1995, was Board Vice Chairman of the Intelligence Scholarship Foundation, and is a Coach of the Naval Academy Sailing Squadron. He is listed in Who’s Who in Space and American Men and Women of Science.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Dr. Michael Yarymovych received his B.S. in aeronautical engineering at New York University in 1955 and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in engineering mechanics from Columbia University in 1956 and 1960, respectively. He was a Guggenheim Fellow at Columbia’s Institute of Flight Structures from 1955 to 1959.
Dr. Yarymovych is Chief Scientific Advisor to ANSER. In February 1998, he retired from Boeing, where he most recently served as Vice President for International Technology in the Information, Space and Defense Systems Group. Prior to this assignment in 1997 and the merger of Boeing with the aerospace portion of Rockwell International, he was Vice President and Associate Center Director of Rockwell’s Systems Development Center. From 1981 to 1986, he served as Vice President, Advanced Systems Development, at Rockwell’s corporate offices; he was Vice President of Engineering and Advanced Technology for North American Aerospace Operations from 1977 to 1981.
Until 1977, he served in the U.S. Government as Assistant Administrator for Field Operations of the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration, Chief Scientist of the U.S. Air Force, and Director of the NATO Advisory Group for Aerospace Research and Development in Paris, France. He also served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Research and Development and Technical Director of the USAF Manned Orbital Laboratory. In addition, Dr. Yarymovych held responsible positions with the NASA Headquarters Manned Space Flight Program involving the Apollo lunar landing effort and initial definition studies of the Space Station and the Space Shuttle.
Dr. Yarymovych has been Chairman of the NATO Research and Development Organization since 1996. He was elected President of the International Academy of Astronautics in 1997, where he had served as Vice President for Scientific Programs since 1985. Dr. Yarymovych was a member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board, NASA Advisory Council Task Force on Space Goals, Strategic Defense Initiative Advisory Council, Stanford University Industrial Affiliates Advisory Board, and Space Panel of the Navy Studies Board, in addition to participating in Defense Science Board studies. He is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, serving as president from 1982 to 1983. He is a four-time recipient of the Air Force Exceptional Civilian Service Award and was awarded the ERDA Distinguished Service Award in 1977. He is a member of the Sigma Xi and Tau Beta Pi honorary societies, the Cosmos Club, the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, and the French Air and Space Academy.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
See above bio
**
Dr. Eugene Mignogna received an A.B. in mathematics from Princeton University in 1959. He then received an M.A. in 1971 and a Ph.D. in 1975 in statistics from the American University under ANSER’s Educational Assistance Program.
Dr. Mignogna joined ANSER’s Strategic Division in 1964 after serving in the U.S. Army. He was a key analyst and project leader on many programs associated with strategic aircraft. His work in the strategic area gained him recognition in the defense analysis community as an expert in bomber penetration and cruise missile analyses. Dr. Mignogna has served on high-level Air Force and DoD study efforts such as the Strategic Bomber Penetration Assessment Group and the Strategic Penetration Technology Summer Study–1977. In addition, he was technical representative to the Advisory Panel for Cruise Missile Survivability testing. He became Manager of ANSER’s newly founded Advanced Analysis Division in 1978 and was responsible for assessing and proposing alternatives for ANSER’s future growth and diversification as well as for managing a variety of special projects and research programs. The latter activities included Chairmanship of the Long-Range Plans Committee and technical coordinator for Tactical Division activities in Dayton, Ohio. In 1980, he was named Vice President for General Purpose Systems, responsible for the general operations of ANSER’s Advanced Analysis, Support Systems, and Tactical Divisions. In 1986, Dr. Mignogna was appointed Senior Vice President–Strategic and Tactical, assuming responsibility for Decision Systems, Strategic Systems, and General Purpose Systems. In 1986, the Strategic and Tactical Divisions were reorganized to form Technology and Engineering, in addition to the original three. At this time, Dr. Mignogna assumed the title of Senior Vice President–Strategic, Tactical & Information Technology. In 1990, Dr. Mignogna was given responsibility for the contract with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition and assumed the title of Senior Vice President Air Force Acquisition. In 1993, following ANSER’s reorganization, he was named Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
He is a member of the American Statistical Association, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Washington Operations Research/Management Sciences Council. He is an Adjunct Professor of Statistics at the American University and a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Weapon Systems Effectiveness Technical Committee. He is also a Member of the Society for Information Management.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/mignognabio.htm
**
Mr. John McElrath received a bachelor’s degree in history from California State Polytechnic University. He completed master’s degree courses in rhetoric at the University of California at Davis and data-processing and project management courses.
Before joining ANSER in 1999, Mr. McElrath was Executive Vice President for Operations at Statistica, Inc., where he directed domestic and international contracts staffed by 275 at 10 locations. He increased corporate revenues by more than 20 percent, improved management staff, and redirected business focus.
As Vice President/Chief Scientist at BDM Federal (now TRW), he directed NASA business opportunities and recovered an at- risk, underfunded project that was two years behind. He restored client satisfaction, collected back payments, and won a new contract for $3.5 million per year.
As Senior Program Manager for Health Information Management at Unisys, he developed a business plan and negotiations to acquire an established company and directed design of a client-server–based managed-care health system using Oracle, Usoft, Power Builder, and C.
As PRC Inc.’s Executive Program Manager for NASA headquarters, Mr. McElrath reengineered NASA’s computing and communications infrastructure. He directed information technology support for business operations, including headquarters contracts, mainframe and mini-host computing, telecommunications networking, applications development, and support and AIS security for 2,800 users. Mr. McElrath directed the information support services business unit with a staff of 300, 15 subcontractors, and a $25 million annual budget. He established effective programs in total quality management, diversity in the workplace, and employee recognition. He received a NASA Special Service Award for outstanding management and was integral in the award to PRC of the highest client Award Fee Scores in the contract’s 23-year history and eight NASA Service Awards for outstanding performance.
Mr. McElrath’s distinguished career positions include President of Brough-Martin, Inc., a small business providing information systems support. As Management Systems Designers, Inc.’s, Principal and Director of the Information Engineering Division, he developed complex computer graphics, high-resolution image processing, and interactive video systems. At Vanguard Technologies, Inc., he served as Vice President, Systems Integration Division, and as Director of Program Management. As Computer Sciences Corporation’s Director of Program Management for the Health and Administrative Services Division, he managed multiple departments in the $30 million National Flood Insurance Program under the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Mr. McElrath also worked for the State of California as a Staff Services Manager; the Public Employees’ Retirement System as Assistant Chief of Administration; and Department of General Services, Administrative Services Division, as Associate Management Analyst.
He is a member of the Society of Information Management.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/organization.htm
**
Ms. Joan R.
Zaorski
Ms. Joan Zaorski received a BA degree in accountancy from Lewis University (1974), an MBA degree from Northern Illinois University (1980), and an MS degree in Science and Technology Commercialization from the University of Texas at Austin (1999). She became a Certified Public Accountant in 1979 and a Certified Management Accountant in 1984. Ms. Zaorski joined ANSER in February 2000 as Vice President Finance and Corporate Treasurer, and she was also appointed Corporate Secretary, responsible for leadership and general management of Finance, Contracts, Human Resources, and Security and Administrative Services.
Before joining ANSER, Ms. Zaorski held several managerial positions at Sandia National Laboratories. Her experiences included business center management, business development, technology transfer, and contract auditing. As the Business Manager for the Development Testing Center, she implemented standard business practices, activity-based costing, and financial management reporting. Ms. Zaorski participated in establishing corporate initiatives that included electronic timekeeping, customer satisfaction, and business planning.
Previously, Ms. Zaorski held managerial and staff positions in the financial and accounting organizations of the Natural Gas Pipeline Company, McDonald’s Corporation, and Swift and Company.
She is a member of the Institute of Management Accountants and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Ms. Zaorski served as Chair of the Audit Committee for Sandia Labs Federal Credit Union and has been treasurer of her homeowner’s association since 1989.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/zaorskibio.htm
**
Mr. Ernest D.
Cruea
Mr. Ernest Cruea earned a B.S. degree in police science from Culver-Stockton College (California) in 1974 and was commissioned a second lieutenant under the Air Force Bootstrap Commissioning Program. In 1979, he earned an M.S. degree in criminal justice from Arizona State University.
Mr. Cruea served in the U.S. Air Force from 1961 to 1984, completing his career assigned to the DoD Inspector General’s Office. At ANSER, Mr. Cruea has managed the design, development, and implementation of a variety of technical and analytic studies and surveys. For the Gulf War Air Power Survey—a comprehensive 24-month review and analysis of the use of U.S. and coalition air power in the Gulf War—he managed and directed tasking on the contract for the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Cruea managed and directed tasking on a variety of single- and joint-Service cost and operational effectiveness analyses, such as the Joint Service Imagery Processing System, the B-1 bomber, and the Joint Tactical Information Display System; the Air Force Logistics research and development planning and integration requirements to interface with user needs to formulate the logistics research, development, and acquisition strategic plan for the entire Air Force; and a variety of studies on U.S. Army and Air Force chemical and biological warfare protection programs, Electronic Source Selections, and requirements analysis validation. Mr. Cruea also manages and directs the technical and financial contract performance of ANSER’s Joint Strike Fighter work.
In 1989, Mr. Cruea was promoted to Area Leader of the management and operation of contract support to the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations in the area of air base operability research, development, and acquisition.
In 1990, Mr. Cruea was promoted to Division Manager for the Installation Operability Division, which was responsible for contract support for the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations, all chemical warfare research, development, and acquisition support to Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Atomic Energy (CM), and for the support to the Air Force Air Combat Command Directorate of Requirements.
In 1994, Mr. Cruea was promoted to Vice President, responsible for full management of ANSER’s contract efforts in the area of Military Operations, including the Newport News, Virginia, office and ANSER’s work at the Air Force Air Combat Command Directorate of Requirements.
In 1995, Mr. Cruea was appointed Program Manager for all of ANSER’s work in support of the Defense Department’s Joint Advanced Strike Technology (now the Joint Strike Fighter Program). He is now the Vice President and Business Area Manager for Operational Mission Services.
He is a member of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals, Association of Proposal Management Professionals, and a Senior Member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/crueabio.htm
**
Dr. Carlos A. Mariño
Carlos Mariño received a B.S. in physics from the New York University College of Engineering in 1966. He then received an M.S. (1970) and a Ph.D. (1975) in physics, also from New York University. He earned his doctorate as a result of optical spectroscopic investigations of the nuclear structure of various bismuth isotopes. Dr. Mariño also conducted theoretical investigations of nuclear structure modeling, including Shell models, Arima-Horie models, and models based on the Bardeen- Cooper-Schrieffer theory of superfluids. He has published in journals, conferences, and proprietary reports.
Dr. Mariño joined ANSER’s Health Systems Division in 1977 and became manager of that division in 1981. In 1984, he was named Special Assistant for Analytic Support Projects to the Vice President, General Purpose Systems. In 1986, he was appointed Assistant Vice President, then promoted to Vice President of General Purpose Systems with responsibility for planning and directing the general operations of ANSER’s Logistics, Special Warfare, Support Systems, and Tactical Divisions. In 1990, Dr. Mariño was named Vice President for Systems and Operations Analysis and given responsibility for consolidating several research areas through matrixed support from across the entire company. He was appointed Vice President of Corporate Development in 1993 and given responsibilities for strategic planning, staff development, and corporate growth. In 1997, Dr. Mariño was named Vice President and Business Area Manager, Research and Analysis, now Threat Reduction and Response.
Dr. Mariño has conducted and directed ANSER studies in many areas, including development of data and information systems, technology planning, nuclear effects, avionics, special operations, mission area planning, economics, policy analysis, and evaluation of health care service and training programs. His management experience includes projects requiring work in a wide spectrum of disciplines.
Prior to joining ANSER, Dr. Mariño taught physics and mathematics at the university, community college, and secondary school levels.
He is a member of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals and the Association of Proposal Management Professionals and corporate member of the American Defense Preparedness Association.
http://www.anser.org/aboutanser/bios2/marinobio.htm
**
(confirmed as per 2000
Annual Report)
Mr. Boskey,a lawyer in private practice in Washington, D.C., is a graduate of Williams College and Harvard Law School, where he was a member of the Board of Editors of the Harvard Law Review. He also did graduate work in economics at the University of Chicago. He was a law clerk to Judge Learned Hand of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Stanley Reed and Chief Justice Harlan F. Stone.
Mr. Boskey served in several government positions during and after World War II. He was a special assistant to the Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice in 1943, an adviser on enemy property in the U.S. Department of State in 1946-1947, and an attorney for the Atomic Energy Commission from 1947 to 1951, the last two years of which he was deputy general counsel. During World War II he served in the Army, primarily in what was known as Special Branch of Military Intelligence.
Mr. Boskey has written extensively on legal subjects, particularly on matters relating to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States, including Volumes 1 and 1A, Supreme
Court, in West's Federal Forms. A member of The American Law Institute's Council since 1972 and its Treasurer since 1975, Mr. Boskey also serves on the Institute's Executive and Investment Committees, as well as on the ALI-ABA Committee on Continuing
Professional Education and its American Law Network Subcommittee. He has served as an Adviser for Restatement Second, Judgments; Restatement Third, The Foreign Relations Law of the United States; and Complex Litigation: Statutory Recommendations and Analysis, and he is presently an Adviser for ALI’s Federal Judicial Code Revision Project.
http://www.ali.org/ali/pr0609-2.htm
