# ANSER Institute for Homeland Security

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/elite/ANSER_homeland.htm

ANSER Institute for Homeland Security
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/
The ANSER Institute for Homeland Security is a not-for-profit public- service research organization examining a new set of national security challenges. Initiated and funded by ANSER's Board of Trustees in October 1999 and formally established in April 2001, the Institute believes that preparing for these new challenges will require a determined, integrated effort at every stage of the process: deterrence, prevention, preemption, crisis management, consequence management, attribution and response.
The ANSER Institute for Homeland Security is leading the debate through executive-level education, public awareness programs, workshops for policy makers and online publications: a weekly newsletter (with 15,000 subscribers) and the Journal of Homeland Security, which features articles by senior government leaders and leading homeland security experts.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/about.cfm
In October 1998, Dr. David became president and chief executive officer of ANSER, an independent, non-profit, public service research institution that provides research and analytic support on national and transnational issues. In November 1999, Dr. David initiated ANSER's Homeland Defense Strategic Thrust to address the growing national concern of multi- dimensional, asymmetric threats from rogue nations, sub-state terrorist groups, and domestic terrorists. In May 2001, the ANSER Institute of Homeland Security was established to enhance public awareness and education and contribute to the dialog on a national, state, and local level.
From September 1995 to September 1998, Dr. David was Deputy Director for Science and Technology at the Central Intelligence Agency. As Technical Advisor to the Director of Central Intelligence, she was responsible for research, development, and deployment of technologies in support of all phases of the intelligence process. She represented the CIA on numerous national committees and advisory bodies, including the National Science and Technology Council and the Committee on National Security. Upon her departure from this position, she was awarded the CIA's Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the CIA Director's Award, the Director of NSA Distinguished Service Medal, the National Reconnaissance Officer's Award for Distinguished Service, and the Defense Intelligence Director's Award.
Previously, Dr. David served in several leadership positions at the Sandia National Laboratories, where she began her professional career in 1975. Most recently, she was Director of Advanced Information Technologies. From 1991 to 1994, Dr. David was Director of the Development Testing Center that developed and operated a broad spectrum of full-scale engineering test facilities.
Dr. David is a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the Corporation for the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc. She serves on the National Security Agency Advisory Board, the National Research Council Naval Studies Board, and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Technical Advisory Group. She previously served on the Defense Science Board, Department of Energy Nonproliferation and National Security Advisory Committee, and the Securities and Exchange Commission Technical Advisory Group. She is a former adjunct professor at the University of New Mexico and has technical experience in digital and microprocessor-based system design, digital signal analysis, adaptive signal analysis, and system integration. She is an Associate Fellow of AIAA, a Principal on the Council for Excellence in Government, a Class Director for the AFCEA International Board of Directors, and a member of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society and Eta Kappa Nu Electrical Engineering Society.
Dr. David received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Wichita State University (1975), an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1976), and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1981).
Dr. David frequently provides speeches, interviews, lectures, briefings, and articles on the many facets of homeland security. She is the coauthor of three books on Signal Processing Algorithms and has authored or coauthored numerous papers.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/david.htm
She has also been recently appointed to the Presidents Homeland Security Advisory Council.
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/06/20020611-6.htm
And was an “observer” of the biological weapons simulation “Dark Winter”
http //www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
**
Randy
Larsen
Randy Larsen is the Randy Larsen is the Director of the Institute for Homeland Security at ANSER, a nonprofit public-service research institute. He previously served as the Chairman of the Department of Military Strategy and Operations at the National War College where he continues to teach the Homeland Security course.
He has also served as a government advisor to the Defense Science Board and as a research fellow at the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies. During the past eight years, he has written and lectured extensively on the subjects of asymmetric and biological warfare, and the 21st century challenges of homeland security.
Larsen's recent speaking engagements include: the Council on Foreign Relations, the International Institute for Security Studies, the German Marshall Fund, the Royal United Services Institute, several World Affairs Councils, plus numerous military, counter proliferation, and intelligence conferences. He is also is a frequent guest commentator on national television and radio shows including: the Jim Lehrer News Hour, CBS News, ABC's Nightline, Larry King Live, plus NPR, CNN, ABC, NBC, CBS, and BBC radio.
He currently serves as a member of the editorial board for the quarterly journal, BIOTERRORISM and BIOSECURITY: Biodefense Strategy, Practice and Science.
He was the co-developer of the nationally-acclaimed DARK WINTER exercise which simulated a major bioterrorism event in the United States.
Key players in this exercise included the current Governor of Oklahoma, Frank Keating; former Senator Sam Nunn, special assistant to five presidents, David Gergan; former Director of Central Intelligence, Jim Woolsey; and former FBI Director, William Sessions.
In June 2000, Colonel Larsen retired following 32 years of military service in both the Army and Air Force. His assignments included 400 combat missions in Cobra helicopter gunships in Vietnam, duties as a military attaché, legislative assistant, and as the commander of America's fleet of VIP aircraft at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.
His military decorations include the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Bronze Star, 17 Air Medals, and the South Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry. He has a Master of Arts degree in National Security Studies from the Naval Post Graduate School.
Contact Information:
Phone: (703) 416-3597
Email: Randall.Larsen@anser.org
And was a member of the “exercise staff” of “Dark Winter”
http //www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
**
Col. Dave
McIntyre, PhD. (USA, Ret.)
Dr. David McIntyre is the Deputy Director of the ANSER Institute for Homeland Security. Since joining the Institute, he has authored numerous articles, briefings, and think pieces on Homeland Security, to include several available on the web at HomelandSecurity.org. He has appeared regularly as a strategy and Homeland Security expert on FOX national news and Washington DC television (WUSA), as well as MSNBC, CNN's Crossfire, Voice of America, the US State Department's "Dialogue" series, Australian national television, and the Canadian Broadcasting Network.
In June 2001 Dr. McIntyre retired as a colonel after a 30 year Army career, culminating with eight years on the faculty of the National War College, National Defense University, the last three as Dean of Faculty and Academic Programs. As a faculty member, he taught courses in National Security Strategy, Military Strategy and Operations, Asia-Pacific Security, and strategy and culture. He also served as the Director of Research and Writing, and directed the incorporation of homeland security into the curriculum starting in 1999. For the previous six years, he worked pol-mil and strategic issues in the Office of the Army Chief of Staff in Washington, DC, and as the speechwriter for the Commander-in-Chief, United States Pacific Command, in Honolulu, Hawaii. As an armor officer, he was Airborne, Ranger, and Jumpmaster qualified, with ten years of joint experience. He served in airborne and armored cavalry units in both the United States and Germany, and on the faculty of the English Department at West Point.
Dr. McIntyre holds a BS in Engineering from West Point, an MA in English and American literature from Auburn University, and a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Maryland. He is a graduate of the US Army War College and the National War College.
Contact info:
Cell: 571-278-3397
Office: 703-416-4748
Fax: 703-416-1306
Office: Dave.McIntyre@anser.org
Home: Mcstrat2020@aol.com
**
Peter Roman,
PhD.
Peter J. Roman is a Senior Fellow at the ANSER Institute for Homeland Security and an Associate Professor of Political Science at Duquesne University. He is author of Eisenhower and the Missile Gap (Cornell University Press). Dr. Roman has authored numerous articles on national security and defense policy, including: "Ike's Hair Trigger: U.S. Nuclear Predelegation, 1953-1960," in Security Studies; "The Joint Chiefs of Staff: From Service Parochialism to Jointness," in Political Science Quarterly; and "Is There A Gap Between Civilian and Military Leaders? If So, Does It Matter?," in Feaver and Kohn, The Civil-Military Gap And American National Security In the 21st Century (Forthcoming: MIT Press, 2001). Dr. Roman has served as a Distinguished Visiting Professor at the National War College, Washington, DC and taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the University of Alabama, and the University of Colorado-Boulder.
Dr. Roman is writing a book with David Tarr on the role of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in national security policy making. He is also currently researching and writing a study on the relationship between organizational design and homeland security professionalism. Dr. Roman earned his MA and PhD at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Contact Information:
Phone: (703) 416-1304
Email: Peter.Roman@anser.org
And was an “observer” of the biological weapons simulation “Dark Winter”
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
**
Alan
Capps
**
And was a member of the “exercise staff” of “Dark Winter”
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
**
**
Dr. Jay C.
Davis
(Chairman)
Jay Davis is National
Security Fellow at the Center for Global Security Research at Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory. For the three years prior to rejoining Livermore in July of
2001, he served as the founding Director of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency
of the United States Department of Defense. Dr. Davis received his BA in Physics
from the University of Texas in 1963, his MA in Physics from the University of
Texas in 1964, and his Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Wisconsin in
1969. From 1969 to 1971, he was an Atomic Energy Commission Postdoctoral Fellow
in nuclear physics at the University of Wisconsin. At Livermore since 1971, he
has worked as a research scientist and as an engineering manager, having led the
design and construction of several unique accelerator facilities used for basic
and applied research.
In the 1970's, he was principal scientist and project manager for the design and construction of the Rotating Target Neutron Source-II Project, building the most intense 14 MeV neutron sources in existence, used for nine years by the US and Japan for fusion materials testing. In the 1980's he became the founding Director the Center for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry, building the most versatile and productive AMS lab in the world. CAMS is used by all nine campuses of the University of California and several hundred international users. He played a major role in the application of AMS to the biosciences, particularly in low-level toxicology and in dose reconstruction from events such as Hiroshima, Nagasaki and Chernobyl. In 1994, he was asked to merge several research organizations at Livermore to create the Earth and Environmental Sciences Directorate. In 1998, he became the first Director of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, integrating DoD's technical and operational activities to deal with WMD.
Davis has numerous publications on research in nuclear physics, nuclear instrumentation, plasma physics, accelerator design and technology, nuclear analytical techniques and analytical methods, and treaty verification technologies. He holds patents on spectrometer technologies and methods for low-level dosimetry of carcinogens and mutagens, and for the study of metabolic processes. He has been a scientific advisor to the UN Secretariat, several US agencies, and has served on advisory committees for the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organization, and the Institute for Nuclear and Geologic Sciences of New Zealand. Davis participated in two UN inspections of Iraq in the summer of 1991, and was selected as the only non-UN member of the team that briefed the UN Security Council after the confrontation at Fallujah on June 28, 1991 that produced the conclusive evidence of Iraqi evasion of the inspection process and violation of the Non- Proliferation Treaty.
Davis was Phi Beta Kappa and a Junior Fellow of the College of Arts and Sciences at Texas. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and was one of its Centennial Lecturers in its Hundredth Anniversary Year. For his contributions to national security during his tenure at DTRA, he was twice awarded the Distinguished Public Service Medal, DoD's highest civilian award. His current interests are homeland defense, nuclear and biological forensics, applications of accelerator technologies to multi-disciplinary research, and strategic planning and management of change in organizations. He has been married to Mary McIntyre Davis for thirty-eight years. They have two married children and a grandson.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/davis.htm
**
Chairman
U.S. Army Science Board
Michael J. Bayer is a consultant in private enterprise strategic planning, acquisitions and mergers. Mr. Bayer began his career in public service in 1977 when he was appointed Counsel to a Republican Representative from Ohio; he went on to serve as the Congressman's Executive Assistant until 1981.
Leaving the Hill, Mr. Bayer was appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary for Congressional Affairs at the U.S. Department of Energy. In 1982, he became Secretary Malcolm Baldridge's Associate Deputy Secretary of Commerce. In November of 1984, Mr. Bayer returned to the private sector accepting the position of Counselor to the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation.
In 1985, Mr. Bayer went on to the Panhandle Eastern Corporation, a Fortune 200 Company headquartered in Houston, Texas, where he was responsible for the Company's regulatory and legislative matters. In January of 1990, Mr. Bayer was named Counselor to President Bush's Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism (Pan Am 103). There he was responsible for organizing a comprehensive investigation of domestic and international aviation security systems. In October of 1990, Mr. Bayer was appointed by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate as the Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System (PAS III), serving in that position until April, 1992. His responsibilities included oversight of the construction and initial operation of the 4,800-mile Alaska natural gas pipeline.
Mr. Bayer currently serves as Chairman of the U.S. Army Science Board and as a Member of the Defense Science Board. In addition to his corporate directorships, he serves as a Member of the Advisory Board of the Association of the United States Army where he chairs AUSA's Land Warfare Committee. He is a Member of the John Carroll Society and the National Ski Patrol.
Mr. Bayer has previously served as a Member of the Board of Visitors of the United States Military Academy (Appointed by President Reagan), a Trustee of Washington's Source Theater (Chairman of the Board (1989-91), a Member of the Board of the Potomac Community Theater, a Member of the Army Science Board (1990-92), and a Member of the Board of Directors of The American Heart Association (Nation's Capital Affiliate).
He has also served on a number of non-partisan task forces to improve the management and efficiency of the Department of Defense. Most recently the Secretary's Defense Reform Task Force (1997), The Congressionally directed review of the Department's Experimentation and Transformation (1999), and the review of the Economic Health of the Defense Industrial Base (2000).
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/bayer.htm
**
Head of Intelligence unit of Dept for Homeland Security
(note: exact title uncertain as position was only confirmed 15th August 2002)
John C. Gannon is Vice-Chairman of Intellibridge Corporation, a Washington firm that provides web-based analysis to corporate and government clients. Previously he served as Chairman of the National Intelligence Council (1997-2001) after serving for two years (1995-1997) as the Deputy Director for Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency. In June 1998, Mr. Gannon was also appointed the Assistant Director of Intelligence for Analysis and Production.
From 1992 until 1996, Mr. Gannon was the Director of the Office of European Analysis in the Directorate of Intelligence (DI). Before that, he held many assignments in the DI, including various management positions in the Office of European Analysis and tours on the staff of the President's Daily Brief, in the Office of Economic Research, and as a Latin America analyst.
Mr. Gannon served as a Naval Officer in Southeast Asia and later, while in the Naval Reserves, was an instructor of navigation at the Navy Officer Candidate School in Newport, Rhode Island. He has been active in civic affairs in Falls Church, Virginia, serving on the City Council and Planning Commission (as Vice Chairman and Chairman). Early in his career, Mr. Gannon taught social studies and science in a secondary school in Jamaica as a member of the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. He also taught high school in Saint Louis.
Mr. Gannon earned a Ph.D. and an M.A. in history from Washington University in Saint Louis and a B.A. in psychology from Holy Cross College in 1966. His graduate studies focused on Latin America, and his doctoral dissertation documented the evolution of political parties in Jamaica. He speaks Spanish.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/gannon.htm
**
Admiral Harold W.
Gehman Jr.
Admiral Harold W. (Hal) Gehman, jr., USN (ret), completed over 35 years of active duty in the U.S. Navy in October 2000. His last assignment was as NATO's Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic and as the Commander in Chief of the U.S. Joint Forces Command, one of the United States' five geographic Unified Commands.
Gehman was born in Norfolk, Va. on 15 October 1942 and graduated from Pennsylvania State University with a BS in Industrial Engineering and a commission in the Navy from the NROTC program. A Surface Warfare Officer, he served at all levels of leadership and command in guided missile destroyers and cruisers. During the course of his career, Gehman had an unusual five sea commands in ranks from Lieutenant to Rear Admiral.
Admiral Gehman served in Vietnam as Officer in Charge of a Swift patrol boat and later in Chu Lai as Officer in Charge of a detachment of six Swifts. His staff assignments were both afloat on a Carrier Battle Group staff and ashore on a fleet commander's staff, a Unified Commander's staff and in Washington DC on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations (four tours).
Promoted to four-star Admiral in 1996, he became the 29th Vice Chief of Naval Operations in September 1996. As VCNO he was a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, formulated the Navy's $70B budget and developed and implemented policies governing the 375,000 people in the Navy.
Assigned in September 1997 as SACLANT and CINC US Joint Forces Command he became one of NATO's two military commanders and assumed command of all forces of all four services in the continental U.S. and became responsible for the provision of ready forces to the other Unified CinCs and for the development of new joint doctrine, training and requirements.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/gehman.htm
**
John Hamre was elected CSIS president and CEO in January 2000. Before joining CSIS, he served as U.S. deputy secretary of defense (1997-1999) and under secretary of defense (comptroller) (1993-1997). As comptroller, Dr. Hamre was the principal assistant to the secretary of defense for the preparation, presentation, and execution of the defense budget and management improvement programs.
Before serving in the Department of Defense, Dr. Hamre worked for ten years as a professional staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. During that time he was primarily responsible for the oversight and evaluation of procurement, research, and development programs; defense budget issues; and relations with the Senate Appropriations Committee.
From 1978 to 1984, Dr. Hamre served in the Congressional Budget Office, where he became its deputy assistant director for national security and international affairs. In that position, he oversaw analysis and other support for committees in both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
Dr. Hamre received his Ph.D., with distinction, in 1978 from the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. His studies focused on international politics and economics and U.S. foreign policy. He received a B.A., with high distinction, from Augustana College in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, in 1972, emphasizing political science and economics. He also studied as a Rockefeller Fellow at the Harvard Divinity School.
Dr. Hamre is married to the former Julia Pfanstiehl, and they reside in Bethesda, Maryland.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/hamre.htm
He was also a member of the “exercise staff” of the “Dark Winter” simulation
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
He is also a commissioner with `The Commission on the Future of the U.S. Aerospace Industry’
(see) aerospace_commission.htm
**
Phil Lacombe is President of the Information and Infrastructure Protection (IIP) Sector within Veridian. IIP provides information and infrastructure protection services to U.S. military and intelligence community. The Sector provides a range of network protection services including vulnerability assessment, forensics and network security architecture, design, operation and management. IIP also provides computer emergency response capabilities.
Mr. Lacombe has been with Veridian since February 1998. Prior to being named a Sector President, he was the corporation's Senior Vice President for Assurance, and Senior Vice President for Policy and Communications. Before joining Veridian, Mr. Lacombe was the Director of the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection (PCCIP), a position he held from September 1996 to February 1998.
Before joining the Commission, Mr. Lacombe was the Managing Director of the Aerospace Education Foundation, a not-for-profit institution providing educational programs nationwide. Mr. Lacombe also served as the Special Assistant to the Chairman of the Commission on Roles and Missions of the Armed Forces from July 1994 through August 1995. He was responsible for drafting the Commission's report.
In January 1994, Mr. Lacombe retired with twenty years service as a colonel in the US Air Force. His assignments in the Air Force included Speech Writer to Secretary of Defense Weinberger, Assistant to the Commander of Air Force Systems Command, Counter Narcotics Strategy at the National Drug Policy Board in the Office of the U.S. Attorney General, and Director of Public Affairs for US and Air Force Space Commands and the North American Aerospace Defense Command.
He is a graduate of the National War College, Air Command and Staff College and Squadron Officers School. He has a Master's Degree in Journalism from the University of North Carolina and a BA from the University of Massachusetts.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/lacombe.htm
**
Dr. Joshua Lederberg, a research geneticist, is Sackler Foundation Scholar and President- emeritus at the Rockefeller University, one of the world's leading scientific institutions devoted to biomedical research. Dr. Lederberg was educated at Columbia and Yale University, where he pioneered in the field of bacterial genetics with the discovery of genetic recombination in bacteria. Because of their simple structure and rapid growth, bacteria have afforded geneticists a fruitful field for research, which has also ripened recently into many medical and industrial applications. In 1958, at the age of 33, Dr. Lederberg received the Nobel Prize in Physiology of Medicine for this work and subsequent research on bacterial genetics.
Dr. Lederberg has been a professor of genetics at the University of Wisconsin and then at Stanford University School of Medicine, until he came to the Rockefeller University in 1978. A member of the National Academy of Sciences since 1957, and a charter member of its Institute of Medicine, Dr. Lederberg has been active on many government advisory boards, such as NIH study sections and the National Advisory Mental Health Council, and has served as Chairman of the President's Cancer Panel.
In recent years, he has been particularly active as a consultant in national security affairs, and has served on such bodies as the Defense Science Board, the CNO Executive Panel, the Intelligence Community's Proliferation Policy panels, and the Commission on Integrated Long Range Strategy, with particular concern for problems of biological weapons proliferation. Since 1972, when he served as advisor to the US delegation at the UN Committee on Disarmament in Geneva during the negotiation of the Biological Weapons Convention, he has been particularly concerned with arms control and other preventative and defensive measures.
Dr. Lederberg has been awarded numerous honorary Doctor of Science M.D., and Doctor of Military Medicine degrees, as well as a foreign membership of the Royal Society, London. He retired as president of the Rockefeller University in July 1990, and continues his research activities there in chemical mutagenesis in bacteria.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/lederberg.htm
**
Judith Miller is a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP, advising on a wide range of business and governmental issues, including corporate and individual officer counseling, and complex civil, and business-related criminal, litigation. She returned to the firm in January 2000, after serving as the General Counsel for the Department of Defense for over five years. As General Counsel, Ms. Miller was the Chief Legal Officer for more than 6,000 lawyers at the Department. She was responsible for advising the Secretary and Deputy Secretary and their senior leadership team on a wide range of legal and policy issues, including mergers and acquisitions, international affairs and intelligence matters, operations law, acquisition and business reform, major procurements, significant litigation and investigations, globalization, computer security, alternate dispute resolution, as well as personnel, fiscal, environmental, and health policy issues.
She took the lead in dealing with the Department of Justice on all significant issues affecting DoD, and also dealt extensively with the Department of State, the National Security Council, the Department of Commerce (on export and encryption issues), and the Federal Trade Commission. Previously at Williams & Connolly, Ms. Miller's counseling and litigation practice included civil and criminal litigation and investigations related to defense procurement, healthcare, and financial institutions; and complex torts. She also has extensive experience in the representation of corporations and corporate officers in corporate compliance and ethics programs, and related investigations.
Prior to Williams & Connolly, Ms. Miller clerked for Judge Harold Leventhal, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and Associate Justice Potter Stewart, Supreme Court of the United States. She was an Assistant to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense in the Office of the Special Assistant from 1977 to 1979. Ms. Miller also served in 1994 as a member of the Advisory Board on the Investigative Capability of the Department of Defense. Ms. Miller is a member of the Defense Science Board, the Executive Council of the American Society of International Law, and the ABA Standing Committee on Law and National Security. She has spoken at the National Association of Attorneys General annual Conference on Supreme Court practice, and received that organization's Volunteer Recognition Award for sustained assistance to the states in preparation for arguments before the Supreme Court of the United States. She contributed the "Implementing Change" chapter to Carter & White, Keeping the Edge: Managing Defense for the Future (MIT Press 2001).
In January 1997, Secretary Perry awarded her the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service. Secretary Cohen awarded her the Bronze Palm to that medal in 1999. She is a recipient of the Department of the Army's Decoration for Distinguished Public Service and was also an honoree of the Marine Corps. In September 1997, Beloit College presented Ms. Miller with the Beloit College Distinguished Service Citation in recognition of her service to her community, her profession, and the College. The National Law Journal also recognized her in 1998 as one of the "50 Most Influential Women Lawyers in America."
Ms. Miller graduated summa cum laude from Beloit College in 1972 (where she has been a member of the Board of Trustees since 1978) and from the Yale Law School in 1975.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/miller.htm
She also played a reporter for the “The New York Times” in “Dark Winter”
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
**
Dr. C. Michael Moriarty, Associate Provost and Vice President for Research at Auburn University, earned his PhD in Physiology and Biophysics at the University of Rochester; his M.S. degree in Engineering Physics and Mathematics from Cornell University; and his B.S. degree in Physics from Carnegie-Mellon University.
A native of Schenectady, New York, Dr. Moriarty came to Auburn University from the University of Georgia where he was Associate Vice President for Research and a Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology. He also was Assistant Provost and Dean of the Graduate School and Executive Assistant to the President at the University of Nebraska. At the University of Nebraska Medical Center, Dr. Moriarty served as Department Head, Physiology and Biophysics; Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies; and as Professor of Physiology and Biophysics.
At Auburn, Dr. Moriarty is chief administrator of a research program exceeding $100 million annually in research expenditures. He serves as President for the Auburn University Research Foundation and also holds a Professorship in the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology in the College of Veterinary Medicine.
Among professional societies to which Dr. Moriarty belongs are the American Association for the Advancement of Science; American Association of Cancer Research; American Physiological Society; American Society for Cell Biology; European Histamine Research Society; National Council of University Research Administrators; and Sigma Xi.
Dr. Moriarty has presented invited lectures and seminars at such institutions as the Universities of British Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Malaga (Spain), Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Virginia, Creighton University, Louisiana State University, Texas Tech University, Utah State University, Georgia Tech, and Virginia Tech.
Dr. Moriarty has obtained more than $2 million in individual competitive research grants. He continues to pursue his personal research interests in the areas of toxicity of heavy metals and blood markers for detection of malignant tumors and has published more than 60 research papers and articles on those topics.
Dr. Moriarty and his wife, Donna, are the parents of three children: Megan, David and Brent.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/moriarty.htm
**
Dr. O'Toole is currently the Deputy Director of the Johns Hopkins University Center for Cilvilian Biodefense Studies and a member of the faculty of the School of Hygiene and Public Health. The Center, sponsored by the Hopkins Schools of Public Health and Medicine, is dedicated to informing policy decisions and promoting practices that would help prevent the use of biological weapons.
She is a member of the Defense Science Board summer panel on biodefense technologies, and the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene steering group on public health response to WMD events, among other advisory and consultative positions related to bioterrorism preparedness. In 1993, Dr. O'Toole was nominated by President Clinton to be Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environment Safety and Health and served in this position until 1997.
As Assistant Secretary, Dr. O'Toole managed a staff of 400 professionals and an annual budget of approximately $200 million. She served as principal advisor to the Secretary of Energy on matters pertaining to protecting the environment and worker and public health from DOE operations.
From 1989-1993, Dr. O'Toole was a Senior Analyst at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) where she directed and participated in studies of health impacts on workers and the public due to environmental pollution resulting from nuclear weapons production, among other projects. She has served as a consultant to industry and government in matters related to occupational and environmental health, worker participation in workplace safety protection, and organizational change. She is a Board-certified internist and occupational medicine physician with clinical experience in academic settings and community health centers.
Dr. O'Toole received her Bachelors degree from Vassar College; her MD from the George Washington University and a Master of Public Health degree from Johns Hopkins. She completed a residency in internal medicine at Yale, and a fellowship in occupational and environmental medicine at Johns Hopkins University.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls/About%20Institute/otoole.htm
She was also a member of the “exercise staff” of “Dark Winter”
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/darkwinter/index.cfm
