# Archive TC - 17

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_archivetc17.htm

UNDERGROUND MILITARY BASES AND BLACK BUDGET
I love the country I am living in more than I love my life, but I
would not be standing before you now, risking my life, if I did not
believe it was so. The first part of this talk is going to concern
deep underground military bases and the black budget.
The black
budget is a secretive budget that garners 25% of the gross national
product of the United States. The black budget currently consumes
$1.25 trillion per year. At least this amount is used in black
programs, like those concerned with deep underground military bases.
Presently, there are 129 deep underground military bases in the
United States.
They have been building these 129 bases day and night, unceasingly,
since the early 1940's. Some of them were built even earlier than
that. These bases are basically large cities underground connected
by high-speed magneto-leviton trains that have speeds up to Mach 2.
Several books have been written about this activity.
Al Bielek has
my only copy of one of them. Richard Sauder, a Ph.D architect, has
risked his life by talking about this. He worked with a number of
government agencies on deep underground military bases. In around
where you live, in Idaho, there are 11 of them.
The average depth of these bases is over a mile, and they again are
basically whole cities underground. They all are between 2.66 and
4.25 cubic miles in size. They have laser drilling machines that can
drill a tunnel seven miles long in one day.
The black projects
sidestep the authority of Congress, which as we know is illegal.
Right now,
the New World Order is depending on these bases. If I had
known at the time I was working on them that the New World Order was
involved, I would not have done it. I was lied to rather
extensively.
MILITARY TECHNOLOGY
Basically, as far as technology is concerned, for every calendar
year that transpires, military technology increases about 44.5
years. This is why it is easy to understand that back in 1943 they
were able to create, through the use of vacuum tube technology, a
ship that could literally disappear from one place and appear in
another place. My father, Otto Oscar Schneider, fought on both sides
of the war.
He was originally a U-boat captain, and was captured and repatriated
in the United States. He was involved with different kinds of
concerns, such as the A-bomb, the H-bomb and the Philadelphia
Experiment. He invented a high-speed camera that took pictures of
the first atomic tests at Bikini Island on July 12, 1946.
I have
original photographs of that test, and the photos also show UFO's
fleeing the bomb site at a high rate of speed. Bikini Island at the
time was infested with them, especially under the water, and the
natives had problems with their animals being mutilated. At that
time, General MacArthur felt that the next war would be with aliens
from other worlds.
Anyway, my father laid the groundwork with theoreticians about the
Philadelphia
Experiment, as well as other experiments. What does
that have to do with me? Nothing, other than the fact that he was my
father. I don't agree with what he did on the other side, but I
think he had a lot of guts in coming here. He was hated in Germany.
There was a $1 million reward, payable in gold, to anyone who killed
him. Obviously, they didn't succeed.
Anyway, back to our topic...
Deep underground bases.
THE FIRE FIGHT AT DULCE BASE
Back in 1954, under the Eisenhower administration, the federal
government decided to circumvent the Constitution of the United
States and
form a treaty with alien entities. It was called the
1954 Greada Treaty, which basically made the agreement that the aliens
involved could take a few cows and test their implanting techniques
on a few human beings, but that they had to give details about the
people involved. Slowly, the aliens altered the bargain until they
decided they wouldn't abide by it at all.
Back in 1979, this was the reality, and the fire-fight at
Dulce
occurred quite by accident. I was involved in building an addition
to the deep underground military base at Dulce, which is probably
the deepest base. It goes down seven levels and over 2.5 miles deep.
At that particular time, we had drilled four distinct holes in the
desert, and we were going to link them together and blow out large
sections at a time.
My job was to go down the holes and check the
rock samples, and recommend the explosive to deal with the
particular rock. As I was headed down there, we found ourselves
amidst a large cavern that was full of outer-space aliens, otherwise
known as large Greys. I shot two of them. At that time, there were
30 people down there.
About 40 more came down after this started, and all of them got
killed. We had surprised a whole underground base of existing
aliens. Later, we found out that they had been living on our planet
for a long time, perhaps a million years. This could explain a lot
of what is behind the
theory of ancient astronauts.
Anyway, I got shot in the chest with one of their weapons, which was
a box on their body, that blew a hole in me and gave me a nasty dose
of cobalt radiation. I have had cancer because of that.
I didn't get really interested in
UFO technology until I started
work at
Area 51, north of Las Vegas. After about two years
recuperating after the 1979 incident, I went back to work for
Morrison and Knudson, EG&G and other companies. At Area 51, they
were testing all kinds of peculiar spacecraft. How many people here
are familiar with Bob Lazar's story? He was a physicist working at
Area 51 trying to decipher the propulsion factor in some of these
craft.
RAILROAD CARS AND SHACKLE CONTRACTS
Now, I am very worried about the activity of the federal government.
They have lied to the public, stonewalled senators, and have refused
to tell the truth in regard to alien matters. I can go on and on. I
can tell you that I am rather disgruntled. Recently, I knew someone
who lived near where I live in Portland, Oregon. He worked at
Gunderson Steel Fabrication, where they make railroad cars.
Now, I
knew this fellow for the better part of 30 years, and he was kind of
a quiet type. He came in to see me one day, excited, and he told me
"they're building prisoner cars". He was nervous. Gunderson, he
said, had a contract with the federal government to build 107,200
full length railroad cars, each with 143 pairs of shackles.
There are 11 subcontractors in this giant project. Supposedly,
Gunderson got over 2 billion dollars for the contract. Bethlehem
Steel and other steel outfits are involved. He showed me one of the
cars in the rail yards in North Portland. He was right. If you
multiply 107,200 times 143 times 11, you come up with about
15,000,000. This is probably the number of people who disagree with
the federal government.
No more can you vote any of these people out of office. Our present
structure of government is "technocracy", not democracy, and it is a
form of feudalism. It has nothing to do with the republic of the
United States. These people are godless, and have legislated out
prayer in public schools. You can get fined up to $100,000 and two
years in prison for praying in school. I believe we can do better.
I also believe that the federal government is running the gambit of
enslaving the people of the United States. I am not a very good
speaker, but I'll keep shooting my mouth off until somebody puts a
bullet in me, because it's worth it to talk to a group like this
about these atrocities.
AMERICA'S BLACK PROGRAM CONTRACTORS
There are other problems. I have some interesting 1993 figures.
There are 29 prototype stealth aircraft presently. The budget from
the U.S. Congress five-year plan for these is $245.6 million. You
couldn't buy the spare parts for these black programs for that
amount. So, we've been lied to.
The black budget is roughly $1.3
trillion every two years. A trillion is a thousand billion. A
trillion dollars weighs 11 tons. The U.S. Congress never sees the
books involved with this clandestine pot of gold.
Contractors of
stealth programs:
Is
this what we are supposed to be living up to as freedom-loving
people? I don't believe so.
STAR WARS AND APPARENT ALIEN THREAT
Still, 68% of the military budget is directly or indirectly affected
by the black budget. Star Wars relies heavily upon stealth weaponry.
By the way, none of the stealth program would have been available if
we had not taken apart crashed alien disks. None of it. Some of you
might ask what the "space shuttle" is "shuttling".
Large ingots of
special metals that are milled in space and cannot be produced on
the surface of the Earth. They need the near vacuum of outer space
to produce them. We are not even being told anything close to the
truth. I believe our government officials have sold us down the
drain lock, stock and barrel. Up until several weeks ago, I was
employed by the U.S. government with a Ryolite-38 clearance factor
one of the highest in the world.
I believe the Star Wars program
is there solely to act as a buffer to prevent alien attack it has
nothing to do with the "cold war", which was only a toy to garner
money from all the people for what? The whole lie was planned and
executed for the last 75 years.
STEALTH TECHNOLOGY USE BY U.S. AND THE U.N.
Here's another piece of information for you folks. The
Drug
Enforcement Administration and the ATF rely on stealth tactical
weaponry for as much as 40% of their operations budget. This in
1993, and the figures have gone up considerably since.
The United
Nations used American stealth aircraft for over 28% of its
collective worldwide operations from 1990 to 1992, according to the
Center for Strategic Studies and UN Report 3092.
GUARDIANS OF STEALTH AND DELTA FORCE
There are at least three distinct classifications of police that
guard our most well-kept secrets. Number one, the Military Joint
Tactical Force (MJTF), sometimes called the Delta Force or
Black
Berets, is a multinational tactical force primarily used to guard
the various stealth aircraft worldwide. By the way, there were 172
stealth aircraft built. Ten crashed, so there were at last count
about 162.
Bill Clinton signed them away about six weeks ago to the
United Nations. There have been indications that the Delta Force was
sent over to Bosnia during the last days of the Bush administration
as a covert sniper force, and that they started taking pot shots at
each side of the controversy, in order to actually start the Bosnia
conflict that would be used by succeeding administrations for
political purposes.
THOUGHTS ON THE BOMBINGS IN THE UNITED STATES
I was hired not too long ago to do a report on the
World Trade
Center bombing. I was hired because I know about the 90 some-odd
varieties of chemical explosives. I looked at the pictures taken
right after the blast. The concrete was puddled and melted.
The
steel and the rebar was literally extruded up to six feet longer
than its original length. There is only one weapon that can do
that... A small nuclear weapon. That's a construction-type nuclear
device. Obviously, when they say that it was a nitrate explosive
that did the damage, they're lying 100%, folks. The people they have
in custody probably didn't do the crime.
As a matter of fact, I have
reason to believe that the same group held in custody did do other
crimes, such as killing a Jewish rabbi in New York. However, I want
to further mention that with the last explosion in Oklahoma City,
they are saying that it was a nitrate or fertilizer bomb that did
it. First, they came out and said it was a 1,000 pound fertilizer
bomb. Then, it was 1,500. Then 2,000 pounds. Now its 20,000. You
can't put 20,000 pounds of fertilizer in a Ryder truck. Now, I've
never mixed explosives, per se.
I know the chemical structure and
the application of construction explosives. My reputation was based
on it. I helped hollow out more than 13 deep underground military
bases in the United States. I worked on the Malta project, in West
Germany, in Spain and in Italy. I can tell you from experience that
a nitrate explosion would not have hardly shattered the windows of
the federal building in Oklahoma City.
It would have killed a few
people and knocked part of the facing off the building, but it would
have never have done that kind of damage. I believe I have been lied
to, and I am not taking it any longer, so I'm telling you that
you've been lied to.
THE REPUBLICAN CONTRACT WITH AMERICA
I don't perceive at this time that we have too much more than six
months of life left in this country, at the present rate. We are the
laughing stock of the world, because we are being hoodwinked by so
many evil people that are running this country. I think we can do
better. I think the people over 45 are seriously worried about their
future. I'm going to run some scary scenarios by you.
The Contract
With America. It contains the same terminology that Adolf Hitler
used to subvert Germany in 1931. I believe we can do better. The
Contract With America is a last ditch effort by our federal
government to tear away the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
STATISTICS ON THE BLACK HELICOPTER PRESENCE
The black helicopters... There are over 64,000 black helicopters in
the United States. For every hour that goes by, there is one being
built. Is this the proper use of our money? What does the federal
government need 64,000 tactical helicopters for, if they are not
trying to enslave us. I doubt if the entire military needs 64,000
worldwide. I doubt if all the world needs that many.
There are 157
F-117A stealth aircraft loaded with LIDAR and computer-enhanced
imaging radar. They can see you walking from room to room when they
fly over your house. They see objects in the house from the air with
a variation limit of 1 inch to 30,000 miles. That's how accurate
that is. Now, I worked in the federal government for a long time,
and I know exactly how they handle their business.
EARTHQUAKE DEVICE, AIDS AS A BIOWEAPON
The federal government has now
invented an earthquake device. I am a
geologist, and I know what I am talking about. With the
Kobe
earthquake in Japan, there was no pulsewave as in a normal
earthquake. None. In 1989, there was an earthquake in San Francisco.
There was no pulse wave with that one either.
It is a Tesla device
that is being used for evil purposes.
The black budget programs have
subverted science as we know it. Look at AIDS, invented by the
National Ordinance Laboratory in Chicago, Illinois in 1972. It was a
biological weapon to be used against the people of the United
States. The reason I know this is that I have seen the documentation
by the Office of Strategic Services, which by the way is still in
operation to this day, through the CDC in Atlanta. They used the
glandular excretions of animals, humans and alien humanoids to
create the virus.
These alien humanoids the government is hobnobbing
with are the worst news. There is absolutely no defense against
their germs none. They are a biological weapon of terrible
consequence. Every alien on the planet needs to be isolated.
Saddam Hussein killed 3.5 million Kurdish people with a similar
biological weapon. Do we, the people of this planet, deserve this?
No, we don't, but we are not doing anything about it. Every moment
we waste, we are doing other people on the planet a disservice.
Right now, I am dying of cancer that I contracted because of my work
for the federal government. I might live six months. I might not. I
will tell you one thing...
If I keep speaking out like I am, maybe
God will give me the life to talk my head off. I will break every
law that it takes to talk my head off. Eleven of my best friends in
the last 22 years have been murdered. Eight of the murders were
called "suicides".
Before I went to talk in Las Vegas, I drove a friend down to Joshua
Tree, near Twentynine Palms. I drove into the mountains in order to
get to Needles, California, and I was followed by two government
E-350 vans with G-14 plates, each with a couple of occupants, one of
which had an Uzi. I knew exactly who they were. I have spoken 19
times and have probably reached 45,000 people. Well, I got ahead of
them and came to a stop in the middle of the road. They both went on
either side of me and down a ravine. Is this what its going to take?
I cut up my security card and sent it back to the government, and
told them if I was threatened, and I have been, that I was going to
upload 140,000 pages of documentation to the Internet about
government structure and the whole plan. I have already begun that
task.
Thank you very much.
