# Archive TC - 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_archivetc02.htm

Meditation Techniques
...Transmitted from Heru also known as Horus in the mythology of Ancient Egypt Transmitted through Karen Kirschbaum while in a trance state From the book "The Return of Light" - http://returnoflight.com/
from ArchiveTC Website
Heru, please describe the first of your meditation techniques. The first meditation is a breathing exercise. In this meditation, you are linking the breath with the hara line. With the inbreath, breathe in and pull energy from below along the hara line. And breathe in He [pronounced hay]. Breathe in and pull energy, from as far and as deep down as you can reach, up through the top of the head. With the inbreath, bring the breath up through the body as high as you can go. Remember that the hara line is infinite, both above and below. With the exhale, pull down from above, from as far up and as high as you can reach, and breath ru. And breathe down through the hara line, down as far as you can go. What is the effect of the he and ru? They carry the vibration of me. So this meditation also connects a person to you? To your powers, your light? Yes. This would be my way to infinity, which of course is not the only way, but it is my road. Please define the term hara line. The hara line is an energetic line passing vertically through the center of the body. It extends beyond the center of the body in both directions, and it is the energetic axis upon which the body is manifested. Please describe the effects and benefits of this meditation. First of all, this is the most relaxing of these three meditations, so a benefit of it will be deep calmness. The way of this is as follows: The axiatonal lines extend beyond the body like meridians. They go down through the earth, through the sun, through the central sun of the galaxy and on and on until you reach the Godverse or Omniverseand likewise above. These lines will also, at some point, go through all of your star ancestry; and you can be linked with this. This line will pass through the planets, the galaxies, the universes that you have originated from. And you may pull down through these lines beings, ancestors, memories, and many such experiences. Are he and ru said silently while doing the inbreath and outbreath? Yes. It is a silent meditation. How many breaths should one do in a sitting of this meditation, and how long should one take for this meditation? It is not a matter of counting breaths. It may be practiced any time one is in a quiet space, and there is no recommended length. Even if a person has a five minute wait at some time, it may be practiced then with benefit. However, if a person were to sit and practice it for a half hour or 45 minutes, the meditation can go very deep. So it is flexible in that way, where a person can benefit from a short focus on it, and also by going deeply into it for a longer period of time. In doing this meditation, I am trying to pull energy from all the way up and all the way down on my hara line, as you directed. However, this effort makes it very hard to relax... Rather than making an effort, allow the breath to flow easily, naturally, and in your normal rhythm. Pull from as far up or as far down as is comfortable. The effect will still be there. How often should it be done? There are no shoulds around this. These meditations are gifts, and because of that I attach no regimen or expectation or value to regularity. Receive them as a gift and enjoy them. There is an endless pleasure attached to them, and over time a great unfolding will occur. If a person were to wish to make this meditation into a daily routine it could be of great benefit, but also it is of benefit just as a casual adjunct when a person thinks of it. Really it is up to an individuals lifestyle and choice as to how deeply they wish to pursue this and how regularly they wish to practice it. Does this breathing meditation open up the light filaments? Yes, it does that, and much more. Please describe the second meditation. The second meditation deals with a star tetrahedron, the base of which is at the dantien and the top of which is at the pineal gland. The star tetrahedron is composed of two interlinked tetrahedrons, one pointing up and the other downwards. This form rotates in all directionsup, down, sideways, and so on. As it does so, from each point of this star tetrahedron there is a line of light, a line of life. That is your connection with the gridwork that holds you here. And these lines stretch into infinity. Do not get too into your head as to whether the lines will get tangled as you spin, just spin and feel the energy going out to infinity along these lines. What is the benefit of this exercise? It activates all of the lines of the gridwork and accesses all of your multi-dimensionality, everywhere that you exist in this universe. For you may have an atom in your abdomen, where the orbit of the electron extends so far as to extend outside this galaxy this is how big you are. This meditation enables you to see and feel that bigness. And it again is infinite. This meditation will also open all of the meridians in the body, and connect them with their infinite source of energy, so that connected with each meridian is limitless light. It connects all of the meridians to the axiatonal grid. Through meridian activation one then becomes consciously connected with all of ones dimensional selves, and the monad. With the creation of each human soul, and the soul as it embodies in a body, is a portion not a fragment but more like a holographic portion of the original force of Creation. And you may access that portion through this technique. That is part of its great power. Please define dantien. The dantien is a point between the navel and the pubic bone, about an inch and a half in diameter. It is a sphere that is the center of gravity for the body, and that when fully activated can resonate with a density comparable to that of the center of the earth. As such it is a very powerful point in the body. Please define axiatonal grid. The axiatonal lines are the meridians that pass through the body. They are not vertical only, although your acupuncturists and so on see only the vertical part of them. When two or more or these lines meet they generate a vortex, and out of that come the horizontal lines. And these lines pass through the body. They do not come from the body they are infinite in nature, and the body hangs upon them. Where do they come from? Its as though they dont come from anywhere; they are everywhere. They are our direct link to infinity. In activating them, one supersedes time and space limitations. And it is at that point, when they are fully active, that beings bilocate very easily and can travel through space and time and dimensions at will. Therefore the star tetrahedron that is within each person is not a merkaba vehicle in itself, but it is more like the engine of the merkaba which then can be activated. What is the difference between the star tetrahedron in this meditation, and the merkaba? Both have the form of the star tetrahedron, or the interlocked forms of two tetrahedrons. However with the merkaba the tetrahedrons rotate in opposite directions. This one does not counter rotate within itself. In addition, a merkaba is in a sense a travel vehicle. This is not a merkaba; it has a different function and purpose. In fact, it is almost a travel vehicle in reverse, where it will bring the universes to you rather than having you travel to the universes. What is the special power or virtue of the spinning tetrahedron? To answer that question would bring up a lengthy description of sacred geometry. It is one of the building blocks of the geometries of creation, one of the sacred shapes, and as such it carries great power. I felt dizzy during this meditation. If you find this exercise dizzying, you may slow down the motion of the spin of the star tetrahedron. This is more of a passive meditation than the first one, which is fairly active. In the first meditation you are drawing energy into the hara line and light filaments. The second meditation is more of a passive awareness where you are the observer, and you observe the change in energy as each of these points activates a meridian. As you observe the turning of the tetrahedron and the point of a star touching a meridian, its almost like a chime being struck. You just listen to that sound or feel that vibration. Let it resonate within you and it will activate the light body. And much can be done with that. Should I cause the tetrahedron to spin? Many people will go at this meditation actively and attempt to spin the tetrahedron at a certain velocity. In fact it is better to not pressure the tetrahedron to spin at any particular velocity, but just to observe it. Westerners especially tend to be hyper and want to jump in and make something happen, but that is the antithesis of this experience. The tetrahedron is already spinning at its own speed, and actually is spinning at many frequencies. So whatever speed you tune into will be the appropriate one for you to follow at that moment. At different times as your consciousness changes it will spin at different rates, and there is no value given to the speed of it. Faster or slower is not better. Different frequencies would hit different frequencies within you. Ive been visualizing the tetrahedron spinning here and there and going around in a somewhat random pattern. Suddenly, as I was sitting and reading with it spinning in the back of my mind, it began spinning in all directions simultaneously. In other words, it began spinning in all directions, within all dimensions, so that it's spinning every direction within the Now. When it did that, its sensations also shifted and became much milder. Is this how it should be? That is correct. It is hard to describe this so that people could visualize it. I think it is one of these things that you cannot get too much in your head about, as it is not easy to picture it mentally. It is something that you have to experience. So if you allow yourself to experience this tetrahedron and it is only spinning in one direction or dimension at a time that is fine. As you spend more time with this meditation it will open up to deeper and deeper levels. In your case this happened because you have been working with the meditation. Please describe your third meditation technique. The third meditation is perhaps the most mysterious of the three, the simplest, and at the same time the most difficult. You focus on your heart and you just go in, and you go in, and you go in. You bring all of your being in there. And you go in and you go in. You invert yourself into your heart until you come out the other side. And when you come out, you come out into my world. Its almost as if you walk into your heart, and that creates a vacuum, and all of your being gets sucked behind you into your heart. You invert yourself inside out. This is the portal to the great mystery, and in a sense to the secret of all Creation. It is almost like going into the birth of life itself. This is the place that I create from, and it is most wonderful. Has this technique ever been used on Earth before? No. Up until this time, believe it or not, it would have been too dangerous to give to humans. Those people who will be using this, who will be attracted to it, will be of sufficient light to be able to hold it without attempting to misuse it. And the gateway has been created to protect those who are not of pure intent from going in the Void. I am immensely, immensely happy that this technique is going out. I am very excited, and I feel the response to it will be great greater than you can imagine.
[ Note from Elora: Heru has several times expressed a combination of joy and urgency about sharing this meditation with the world. He states that it will give us the power to co-create our lives in full conscious choice, as well as to heal and regenerate our world. By giving us the key to enter his world, Heru has provided us with a place from which to create, to manifest, and to make choices. It is time for light-oriented humans to have the power with which to shape our lives and our world. ]
Since this technique is so powerfully linked to creation: what happens if a person with less than pure intentions goes into that space, will they be able to create bad things? Also how about people who are unstable? It will only open up for people who are stable to a certain degree. Someone who is depressed, that is no problem. Someone who is even bi-polar, that is no problem. But for someone who is schizophrenic or psychotic, the portal just wont open up. It is up to me whom I let through that door. How about people who are negative does this apply to them as well? Yes, it does. You said: "It is up to me whom I let through that door." This implies that you have control of this space. Is this a space that you created from within the Void? In other words, is it a portion of the Void that you have qualified in some way? That would be a good way to describe it, yes. Hence my calling this place my world. With what qualities did you qualify it? I dont know that they really are separate qualities from the rest of the Void. It is more that it is under my domain and therefore I have, as I said, control over whom I let in. This applies not just to humans. If you were to call one of the fallen to come in there, it would be up to me to let them in or not, depending on the work you were calling them in there to do. I am present in every part of that Void that you would go to. Through my gateway, it is my domain; and therefore the work that you are doing in that domain is under my tutelage and by my permission. This is the technique in which I am the most actively involved. When I inverted myself through my heart as per your instructions, it felt very much like turning a rubber glove inside out. First my torso and head went through, and then my feet. Would that be a good analogy to help people understand this meditation? Yes, that is a very good analogy. Sometimes I feel as if Im part of the way into your world, but not completely. When this occurs, state three times, Heru, take me entirely into your world. Then you will be all the way in. [Note: This works! If you find yourself partially drifting out of Herus world, you can also use this affirmation.] This meditation was much easier than I thought it would be. It felt like I went into a deep, black void, except that I could think, which is unlike the Void I usually go into. Normally when I access the Void, any thoughts will bring me out. Yes, you are correct, and you were there. In this meditation, unlike other techniques of accessing the Void, you take your whole self in there. When you have been going into the Void using your other technique, you have in essence not taken the mind with you. In this technique you are able to do so. You may work in the Void and do the work that you do from the Void, still having mental clarity and activity should you desire to use it. It makes it a much more versatile tool. Also, entering into what I would call my world, there is the ability to think clearly and act in spirit outside of your personal coloring and concepts, and everything that you consider you; outside your personal identity. And that makes this an incredibly potent avenue and a wise place from which to make decisions. This is a wonderful place from which to gain perspective of the greater reality, because you really stand outside of time, space, duality, karma, and this world, and can truly see freedom. I was working with you in your world, holding a visualization. However, my mind drifted and therefore I was polluting the visualization. So I stopped and did it again, and again my mind drifted. Why did this happen? And did this ruin my visualization? It is a matter of practice. Because you can go in there with your mind, this makes it a more versatile tool than the technique you have been originally using. The fact that you take your mind in there is a double edged sword because yes, it will wander. And with practice, you will be better at it. But do not concern yourself if your mind wanders and your images become somewhat distorted, that you are diluting or destroying the original intent. For at the point that your mind wanders, you lose the power that happens in the Void. So as you lose the power you also lose the power to distort it; you are just drifting off. Let it happen and bring yourself back. Once I got fully in, I was surprised to notice that it was easy to stay in your world, and I didnt want to leave. I looked around and noticed several things. One was the door into your world, the one that I had passed through. It seemed to have concentric rings, almost like a sphincter muscle, or the throat of a flower; and I saw purple and other colors, whereas there is no color in the Void. It also seemed that I could see beings passing by the door, and sometimes trying to get in. But I dont think I saw anyone enter while I was there. Was I seeing correctly? Yes, that is a very good description of it. Could we say that door is a portal, and you are the guardian of that portal? Absolutely. Would you please speak about the process of manifesting in your world? The best way would be to have a clear intent before going in, perhaps one issue, idea, or desire per session. That would be easier than coming in with a whole list. State your intention as clearly as you can within the Void, and that is sufficient. Should it be repeated, condensing it into a point? I noticed you doing that with an intention I stated. I will do that if the issue or idea is not sufficiently concentrated. The more emotion behind your manifestation and I mean this in the sense of a true emotion, not as in being emotional and the more concentrated the intent is, the more powerful the manifestation. So if somebody comes in with an idea that they have, which takes them a paragraph to state, I will work them into that fine concentrated point for it to have greater power. Perhaps that would also work well with something that is a bit abstract. Yes, and for that type of issue this is a very effective way to do it. How about visualization? This can be done also. For each person it will be somewhat different, and for each issue it will be somewhat different, so a great variety of things can be experienced in there. How about the problem of limiting belief systems, which can stop a manifestation from occurring? The last time I was in your world, I felt that you were working on my head to help me with this. What did you do? Restructuring of belief systems and uncoiling some fear. I believe that when you approach certain issues that have been fearful for you in the past, you will find a difference now. It would be good to take these issues for a test drive and see where there are still aspects of fear and resistance; and if there still are some then we will work again. Is this something that you will also do for any person upon request? Yes. Unless I've been mistaken, Heru, you have appeared the last two times I've been in your world, and you helped me somewhat with my creations. Is that true? Yes. That is part of this process; I am very active in the Void being a Creator God. And this will teach people the ability to truly consciously co-create their reality. Please tell us why something we create in the void doesn't manifest in the physical, and what we can do to change that. Remember that you are living in a world with tremendous amounts of interference. And so with that premise, it is not always going to be successful. All I can say to that is to work at finding interference, clearing interference, and then trying again. What types of interference should we look for? Interference manifests on every level. It is dark beings, it is unconscious thought, it is the dark, it is everywhere. It does include any self sabotaging, subconscious thought forms. And just remember that the dark beings cloak themselves and travel on many dimensions, and are many shapes and sizes. I have been feeling the created thought as being in the present, while in low alpha, with emotion, and trying to do this every day. You said there were other ways of doing it. What are they? Emotion is definitely a very powerful component to this, and it is my feeling that heart centered emotion and heart felt emotion give weight and power to the creation. What Im going to give you is more of an allegory than an actual step by step procedure. Take the longing for this creation, for what you are creating, and really identify that longing. Place it in a chalice, a very pure vessel, and offer it up to the Creator and then ask for it back again. For this longing has great power, but it is when we offer it up to the highest good that it then becomes something pure and not conflicted. However you would want to stage that procedure would be fine; it is the intent or the heart of it that is important.
Since this technique is so powerfully linked to creation: what happens if a person with less than pure intentions goes into that space, will they be able to create bad things? Also how about people who are unstable? It will only open up for people who are stable to a certain degree. Someone who is depressed, that is no problem. Someone who is even bi-polar, that is no problem. But for someone who is schizophrenic or psychotic, the portal just wont open up. It is up to me whom I let through that door. How about people who are negative does this apply to them as well? Yes, it does. You said: "It is up to me whom I let through that door." This implies that you have control of this space. Is this a space that you created from within the Void? In other words, is it a portion of the Void that you have qualified in some way? That would be a good way to describe it, yes. Hence my calling this place my world. With what qualities did you qualify it? I dont know that they really are separate qualities from the rest of the Void. It is more that it is under my domain and therefore I have, as I said, control over whom I let in. This applies not just to humans. If you were to call one of the fallen to come in there, it would be up to me to let them in or not, depending on the work you were calling them in there to do. I am present in every part of that Void that you would go to. Through my gateway, it is my domain; and therefore the work that you are doing in that domain is under my tutelage and by my permission. This is the technique in which I am the most actively involved. When I inverted myself through my heart as per your instructions, it felt very much like turning a rubber glove inside out. First my torso and head went through, and then my feet. Would that be a good analogy to help people understand this meditation? Yes, that is a very good analogy. Sometimes I feel as if Im part of the way into your world, but not completely. When this occurs, state three times, Heru, take me entirely into your world. Then you will be all the way in. [Note: This works! If you find yourself partially drifting out of Herus world, you can also use this affirmation.] This meditation was much easier than I thought it would be. It felt like I went into a deep, black void, except that I could think, which is unlike the Void I usually go into. Normally when I access the Void, any thoughts will bring me out. Yes, you are correct, and you were there. In this meditation, unlike other techniques of accessing the Void, you take your whole self in there. When you have been going into the Void using your other technique, you have in essence not taken the mind with you. In this technique you are able to do so. You may work in the Void and do the work that you do from the Void, still having mental clarity and activity should you desire to use it. It makes it a much more versatile tool. Also, entering into what I would call my world, there is the ability to think clearly and act in spirit outside of your personal coloring and concepts, and everything that you consider you; outside your personal identity. And that makes this an incredibly potent avenue and a wise place from which to make decisions. This is a wonderful place from which to gain perspective of the greater reality, because you really stand outside of time, space, duality, karma, and this world, and can truly see freedom. I was working with you in your world, holding a visualization. However, my mind drifted and therefore I was polluting the visualization. So I stopped and did it again, and again my mind drifted. Why did this happen? And did this ruin my visualization? It is a matter of practice. Because you can go in there with your mind, this makes it a more versatile tool than the technique you have been originally using. The fact that you take your mind in there is a double edged sword because yes, it will wander. And with practice, you will be better at it. But do not concern yourself if your mind wanders and your images become somewhat distorted, that you are diluting or destroying the original intent. For at the point that your mind wanders, you lose the power that happens in the Void. So as you lose the power you also lose the power to distort it; you are just drifting off. Let it happen and bring yourself back. Once I got fully in, I was surprised to notice that it was easy to stay in your world, and I didnt want to leave. I looked around and noticed several things. One was the door into your world, the one that I had passed through. It seemed to have concentric rings, almost like a sphincter muscle, or the throat of a flower; and I saw purple and other colors, whereas there is no color in the Void. It also seemed that I could see beings passing by the door, and sometimes trying to get in. But I dont think I saw anyone enter while I was there. Was I seeing correctly? Yes, that is a very good description of it.
Could we say that door is a portal, and you are the guardian of that portal? Absolutely. Would you please speak about the process of manifesting in your world? The best way would be to have a clear intent before going in, perhaps one issue, idea, or desire per session. That would be easier than coming in with a whole list. State your intention as clearly as you can within the Void, and that is sufficient. Should it be repeated, condensing it into a point? I noticed you doing that with an intention I stated. I will do that if the issue or idea is not sufficiently concentrated. The more emotion behind your manifestation and I mean this in the sense of a true emotion, not as in being emotional and the more concentrated the intent is, the more powerful the manifestation. So if somebody comes in with an idea that they have, which takes them a paragraph to state, I will work them into that fine concentrated point for it to have greater power. Perhaps that would also work well with something that is a bit abstract. Yes, and for that type of issue this is a very effective way to do it. How about visualization? This can be done also. For each person it will be somewhat different, and for each issue it will be somewhat different, so a great variety of things can be experienced in there. How about the problem of limiting belief systems, which can stop a manifestation from occurring? The last time I was in your world, I felt that you were working on my head to help me with this. What did you do? Restructuring of belief systems and uncoiling some fear. I believe that when you approach certain issues that have been fearful for you in the past, you will find a difference now. It would be good to take these issues for a test drive and see where there are still aspects of fear and resistance; and if there still are some then we will work again. Is this something that you will also do for any person upon request? Yes. Unless I've been mistaken, Heru, you have appeared the last two times I've been in your world, and you helped me somewhat with my creations. Is that true? Yes. That is part of this process; I am very active in the Void being a Creator God. And this will teach people the ability to truly consciously co-create their reality. Please tell us why something we create in the void doesn't manifest in the physical, and what we can do to change that. Remember that you are living in a world with tremendous amounts of interference. And so with that premise, it is not always going to be successful. All I can say to that is to work at finding interference, clearing interference, and then trying again. What types of interference should we look for? Interference manifests on every level. It is dark beings, it is unconscious thought, it is the dark, it is everywhere. It does include any self sabotaging, subconscious thought forms. And just remember that the dark beings cloak themselves and travel on many dimensions, and are many shapes and sizes. I have been feeling the created thought as being in the present, while in low alpha, with emotion, and trying to do this every day. You said there were other ways of doing it. What are they? Emotion is definitely a very powerful component to this, and it is my feeling that heart centered emotion and heart felt emotion give weight and power to the creation. What Im going to give you is more of an allegory than an actual step by step procedure. Take the longing for this creation, for what you are creating, and really identify that longing. Place it in a chalice, a very pure vessel, and offer it up to the Creator and then ask for it back again. For this longing has great power, but it is when we offer it up to the highest good that it then becomes something pure and not conflicted. However you would want to stage that procedure would be fine; it is the intent or the heart of it that is important.
[From Elora: As a final note to this chapter, we have learned that it is possible to enter another space which is known as the Creators world. To enter this domain, first go into Herus world. Then once again travel inward through your heart. However, this time do not invert yourself.
Whereas Herus world appears black and calm, Creators world is an extremely high-energy place, which may seem to have flaming skies and fountains of light. Usually the energy is so strong that you will have to ask for it to be stepped down. It is hard to think or operate in Creators world, but Heru has told us that creations done there will manifest faster and more strongly.
Another possibility is to invite Prime Creator to join you in Herus world and assist you there with whatever you wish to manifest.]
Return to Archive TC
Return to The Astral Plane
