# As It Adores And Worships The Serpent

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_brotherhoodss01d.htm

Rituals of Freemasonry
Freemasonry Proven To Worship Satan
As It Adores And Worships The Serpent Part 4 of 5
SERPENT WORSHIP IN FREEMASONRY
The Serpent is a very important symbol within both Freemasonry and Christianity.
It was also important in ancient civilizations. It shouldn't be a shock to you to learn that Freemasonry worships the Serpent. Most pagan groups have done this for the past 5,000 years. Remember the Serpent in Eden? Albert Pike speaks greatly about the importance of the worship of the serpent in Morals & Dogma in the various pagan mysteries' religions of antiquity. You will recall that on another page Pike was quoted saying that, "Masonry is identical to the ancient Mysteries," which means that all their teachings in all their books are precisely the same as the Ancient, Pagan Mysteries.
"The serpent entwined around the egg, was a symbol common to the Indians, the Egyptians, and the Druids. It referred to the creation of the Universe." [p. 496; teaching of the 25 Degree, Knight of the Brazen Serpent ]
"The serpent entwined around the egg, was a symbol common to the Indians, the Egyptians, and the Druids. It referred to the creation of the Universe."
[p. 496; teaching of the 25 Degree, Knight of the Brazen Serpent ]
Freemasonry does not believe that the Universe was created by the God of the Bible. This statement really supports that concept, as it dogmatically states that the serpent entwined around the egg is a symbol of the creation of the universe. Freemasonry idolizes the Druids. Pike not only mentions the Druids in this sentence, but other Masonic authors are even bolder in their admission that Freemasonry venerates them because their Mysteries' Religion is identical to the Druids:
"... our mode of teaching the principles of our profession [Masonry] is derived from the Druids ... and our chief emblems originally came from Egypt ..." [William Hutchinson, Mason, The Spirit of Masonry, revised by George Oliver, New York, Bell Publishing, originally published in 1775, p. 195]
"... our mode of teaching the principles of our profession [Masonry] is derived from the Druids ... and our chief emblems originally came from Egypt ..."
[William Hutchinson, Mason, The Spirit of Masonry, revised by George Oliver, New York, Bell Publishing, originally published in 1775, p. 195]
Another Masonic writer (Albert Churchward), states that Masons are "our present Druids." [Albert Churchward, Signs and Symbols of Primordial Man: the Evolution of Religious Doctrine from the Eschatology of the Ancient Egyptians, 1913] Another Masonic author, George Oliver, also noted Freemasonry's connection with the Druids.
"The Druids had a high veneration for the Serpent. Their great god, Hu, was typified by that reptile; and he is represented by the Bards as 'the wonderful chief Dragon, the sovereign of heaven'." [George Oliver, Signs and Symbols, 1906]
"The Druids had a high veneration for the Serpent. Their great god, Hu, was typified by that reptile; and he is represented by the Bards as 'the wonderful chief Dragon, the sovereign of heaven'."
[George Oliver, Signs and Symbols, 1906]
When Masonic authors Pike, Hutchinson, Churchward, and Oliver identify Masonry as coming from the Druid religion, this admission is extremely damning.
"Masons .. admire the Druids and some of them even claim that Masonry came from Druidism. Of course, the Druids were occultic priests, practiced astrology, and offered human sacrifices." [Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated, p. 28]
"Masons .. admire the Druids and some of them even claim that Masonry came from Druidism. Of course, the Druids were occultic priests, practiced astrology, and offered human sacrifices."
[Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated, p. 28]
Albert Pike then reveals that other Mysteries' Religions throughout the globe and at different times also worshipped the serpent, in various ways. For example: [quotes below taken from Morals and Dogma]
1) "The Phoenicians represented the God Nomu (Kneph or Amun-Kneph) by a serpent" 2) "In Egypt, a Sun supported by two asps was the emblem of Horhat the good genius; the serpent with the winged globe was placed over the doors and windows of the Temples as a tutelary God." [The word, "tutelary" means "guardian"] 3) In ancient Tyre, and India, "a serpent was ... coiled around the trunk of a tree. Python, the Serpent Deity, was esteemed oracular; and the tripod at Delphi was a triple-headed serpent of gold." 4) "The portals of the Egyptian Temples are decorated with the hierogram of the Circle and the Serpent" 5) The serpent, "is found upon the Temple of Naki-Rustan in Persia, on the triumphal arch at Pechin, in China, over the gates of the great Temple of Chaundi Teeva, in Java; upon the walls of Athens ... The Mexican hierogram was formed by the intersecting of two great Serpents, which described the circle with their bodies, and each a human head in its mouth." While we may think it abhorrent for a snake to be swallowing a human, we discover that the Satanist had a different point of view. A Satanic book of symbols, entitled, Magic Symbols , says that a snake swallowing a human being symbolizes, "the process of initiation. When a man has prepared himself as to achieve insight into the nature of the spiritual realm, then he is said to be an initiate. A true initiate is one who has been given, or who has earned, such wisdom as permits him to look on such a brilliant influx of spiritual light ... without damaging his vision." As a man is invited to go up the degrees, he is told more and more things, until finally, about the 28th Degree, he realizes he is worshipping Lucifer, the good god. He has been mightily prepared for this revelation, so he can "look on such a brilliant influx of spiritual light without damaging his vision!" 6) "All the Buddhist crosses in Ireland had serpents carved upon them. Wreaths of snakes are on the columns of the ancient Hindu Temple at Burwah-Sangor." "Among the Egyptians, it was a symbol of Divine Wisdom, when extended at length; and with its tail in its mouth, of Eternity." All the pagans in every era have used the serpent to worship and to consider as symbolic of Wisdom. A Satanic book of symbols, entitled, Magic Symbols, says, "... we shall see the deeper implications of the serpent as a symbol of wisdom ..." This figure (below), is identified as being one used in the practice of Alchemy, an art normally thought of as attempting to turn base metals into gold, but which also has a spiritual objective of achieving eternal life. By the way, this symbol of the snake devouring its own tail is called "Ouroboros."
1) "The Phoenicians represented the God Nomu (Kneph or Amun-Kneph) by a serpent" 2) "In Egypt, a Sun supported by two asps was the emblem of Horhat the good genius; the serpent with the winged globe was placed over the doors and windows of the Temples as a tutelary God." [The word, "tutelary" means "guardian"] 3) In ancient Tyre, and India, "a serpent was ... coiled around the trunk of a tree. Python, the Serpent Deity, was esteemed oracular; and the tripod at Delphi was a triple-headed serpent of gold." 4) "The portals of the Egyptian Temples are decorated with the hierogram of the Circle and the Serpent" 5) The serpent,
"is found upon the Temple of Naki-Rustan in Persia, on the triumphal arch at Pechin, in China, over the gates of the great Temple of Chaundi Teeva, in Java; upon the walls of Athens ... The Mexican hierogram was formed by the intersecting of two great Serpents, which described the circle with their bodies, and each a human head in its mouth."
While we may think it abhorrent for a snake to be swallowing a human, we discover that the Satanist had a different point of view.
A Satanic book of symbols, entitled, Magic Symbols , says that a snake swallowing a human being symbolizes,
"the process of initiation. When a man has prepared himself as to achieve insight into the nature of the spiritual realm, then he is said to be an initiate. A true initiate is one who has been given, or who has earned, such wisdom as permits him to look on such a brilliant influx of spiritual light ... without damaging his vision."
As a man is invited to go up the degrees, he is told more and more things, until finally, about the 28th Degree, he realizes he is worshipping Lucifer, the good god. He has been mightily prepared for this revelation, so he can "look on such a brilliant influx of spiritual light without damaging his vision!" 6) "All the Buddhist crosses in Ireland had serpents carved upon them. Wreaths of snakes are on the columns of the ancient Hindu Temple at Burwah-Sangor."
"Among the Egyptians, it was a symbol of Divine Wisdom, when extended at length; and with its tail in its mouth, of Eternity."
All the pagans in every era have used the serpent to worship and to consider as symbolic of Wisdom. A Satanic book of symbols, entitled, Magic Symbols, says,
"... we shall see the deeper implications of the serpent as a symbol of wisdom ..."
This figure (below), is identified as being one used in the practice of Alchemy, an art normally thought of as attempting to turn base metals into gold, but which also has a spiritual objective of achieving eternal life.
By the way, this symbol of the snake devouring its own tail is called "Ouroboros."
This symbol is also called, "Ouroboros," but its meaning is deeper.
"This snake, sometimes called the Ouroboros, is a symbol of Time, from which alone Wisdom springs. The snake encircles the two symbols of the extremes of created life -- the child and the death-symbol of the skull. Between them, the child and skull are intended to symbolize the 'beginning and then end.' As a whole, the emblem may be interpreted as meaning, 'In the end, is my beginning', or 'The End is Found in the Beginning', which is approximately what the Latin around the circle means." Magic Symbols, Ibid.
"This snake, sometimes called the Ouroboros, is a symbol of Time, from which alone Wisdom springs. The snake encircles the two symbols of the extremes of created life -- the child and the death-symbol of the skull.
Between them, the child and skull are intended to symbolize the 'beginning and then end.' As a whole, the emblem may be interpreted as meaning, 'In the end, is my beginning', or 'The End is Found in the Beginning', which is approximately what the Latin around the circle means."
Magic Symbols, Ibid.
The pagan belief in Reincarnation is spoken of within these statements. This second Ouroboros depicts the whole world being surrounded and controlled by the Serpent. This is the way the Satanist views the entire created world. Freemasonry shares the belief in the serpent symbolizing time, as the second Ouroboros indicates. Listen to Pike explain this briefly but clearly.
"A serpent-ring was a well-known symbol of time." Ibid., p. 497
"A serpent-ring was a well-known symbol of time."
Ibid., p. 497
As Pike is explaining the Mason's spiritual belief about the serpent, he mentions the Zodiac, bees and honey. Listen.
"The Virgin of the zodiac is bitten in the heel by Serpens, who, with Scorpio, rises immediately behind her; and as honey, the emblem of purity and salvation, was thought to be an antidote to the serpent's bite, so the bees of Aristaeus, the emblems of nature's abundance, are destroyed through the agency of the serpent, and regenerated within the entrails of the Vernal Bull. The Sun-God is finally victorious." [Ibid.]
"The Virgin of the zodiac is bitten in the heel by Serpens, who, with Scorpio, rises immediately behind her; and as honey, the emblem of purity and salvation, was thought to be an antidote to the serpent's bite, so the bees of Aristaeus, the emblems of nature's abundance, are destroyed through the agency of the serpent, and regenerated within the entrails of the Vernal Bull. The Sun-God is finally victorious."
[Ibid.]
Note that Masonry also identifies itself with the pagans who divine the future by studying the entrails of a bull.
You consistently see the symbol of the bees and their beehive throughout Freemasonry.
The July, 1998, issue of The Scottish Rite Journal states that the eagle was also a symbol of regeneration and rebirth. [Jim Tresner, 33 Degree, "Wings of the Eagle, Wings On Our Feet," Scottish Rite Journal, July, 1998, p. 7.]
But, another Masonic writer returned back to the symbolism of the snake as regeneration, or reincarnation. [Herbert F. Inman, Masonic Problems and Queries, London, England, A. Lewis, Ltd., 1987, p. 210. Also stated by Charles G. Berger, Our Phallic Heritage , New York, Greenwich Book Publishers, Inc., p. 204.] In fact, listen to how the book, A Dictionary of Symbols, explains the importance of the snake.
"Snakes are guardians of the springs of life and of immortality, and also of those superior riches of the spirit that are symbolized by hidden treasure ... the serpent is the life-force which determines birth and rebirth and hence it is connected with the Wheel of Life ..." [Cirlot, A Dictionary of Symbols , p. 286-288]
"Snakes are guardians of the springs of life and of immortality, and also of those superior riches of the spirit that are symbolized by hidden treasure ... the serpent is the life-force which determines birth and rebirth and hence it is connected with the Wheel of Life ..."
[Cirlot, A Dictionary of Symbols , p. 286-288]
Albert Pike gives us the explanation for these two Masonic columns, both of which depict a serpent.
"Serpents encircling rings and globes, and issuing from globes, are common in the Persian, Egyptian, Chinese, and Indian monuments. Vishnu is represented reposing on a coiled serpent, whose folds form a canopy over him." [Pike, Morals and Dogma, teachings of the 25th Degree, Knight of the Brazen Serpent , p. 500]
"Serpents encircling rings and globes, and issuing from globes, are common in the Persian, Egyptian, Chinese, and Indian monuments. Vishnu is represented reposing on a coiled serpent, whose folds form a canopy over him."
[Pike, Morals and Dogma, teachings of the 25th Degree, Knight of the Brazen Serpent , p. 500]
Notice that the column on the left not only has a serpent encircling a globe, but notice also that the globe itself has wings.
Another source quotes H.G. Wells as saying that the winged globe is,
"to become the symbol of the New World Order when it overtly rules the world." [Fritz Springmeier, The Watchtower and the Masons , Portland, Oregon, 1992, p. xi]
"to become the symbol of the New World Order when it overtly rules the world."
[Fritz Springmeier, The Watchtower and the Masons , Portland, Oregon, 1992, p. xi]
That means the Masonic column on the left depicts the symbol of the final Kingdom of Antichrist, his New World Order.
You see again that we have a strong connection between Freemasonry and the coming Kingdom of Antichrist.
FREEMASONRY DEPICTS THE SAVIOR AS THE SERPENT!!
On the right is the Masonic Apron. You will note the All-Seeing Eye on the left upper corner, the Sun worship symbol in the right upper corner, and the beehive with bees toward the bottom, all very typical Masonic and Satanic symbols.
But, note the centerpiece symbol, with the Death's Head in the middle of the Masonic Emblem of the Compass and Square. Notice that this symbol is surrounded by an Ouroboros, the snake eating its own tail. Further, notice that two sprigs of evergreen bough are below the Compass and Square; the Satanist uses the evergreen to depict eternal life.
But, now, let us listen to two Masonic authors shed even more light on this subject:
"The Serpent is universally esteemed a legitimate symbol of Freemasonry." [George Oliver, Signs and Symbols , New York, 1906]
"The Serpent is universally esteemed a legitimate symbol of Freemasonry."
[George Oliver, Signs and Symbols , New York, 1906]
Now at least we know the truth about Freemasonry! Its "legitimate symbol" is the serpent, and note the capitalization of serpent, above, denoting Deity.
"The serpent is the symbol and prototype of the Universal Savior, who redeems the worlds by giving creation the knowledge of itself and the realization of good and evil." [Manly P. Hall, 33 Degree Mason, The Secret Teachings of All Ages , the Philosophical Research Society Press, p. lxxxviii.]
"The serpent is the symbol and prototype of the Universal Savior, who redeems the worlds by giving creation the knowledge of itself and the realization of good and evil."
[Manly P. Hall, 33 Degree Mason, The Secret Teachings of All Ages , the Philosophical Research Society Press, p. lxxxviii.]
"It is the body of the Holy Spirit, the Universal Agent, the Serpent devouring its own tail." [Morals and Dogma, teachings of the 28th Degree, Knight of the Sun, or Prince Adept]
"It is the body of the Holy Spirit, the Universal Agent, the Serpent devouring its own tail."
[Morals and Dogma, teachings of the 28th Degree, Knight of the Sun, or Prince Adept]
Return
