# Audio Letter #53

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/audioletters/audioletters_53.htm

Audio Letter #53
Hello, my friends, this is Dr. Beter in Washington. Today is January 21, 1980, and this is my AUDIO LETTER® No. 53.
It has now been seven weeks since I recorded AUDIO LETTER No. 52 on the last day of November, 1979. I want to thank each and every one of you for your patience during this unavoidable delay. The headlines in recent weeks have been filled with one shock after another. For example, the alleged former Shah of Iran has made sudden surprise movesfirst to Texas, then to Panama. The world has been jolted by a radical change in the behavior of Russia, starting with massive intervention in Afghanistan. And even more startling, the United States is answering Russia with a revival of the Cold War. Meanwhile the gold skyrocket is seemingly streaking higher and higher in panic buying, and hanging over it all is the dark cloud of the expanding Iran crisis. In a matter of weeks the international climate has undergone a dramatic change. The blue skies of peace and prosperity are fading away. Suddenly the atmosphere is filled with the smell of approaching war, and the events in the headlines are only a pale shadow of what is taking place behind the scenes. Since I spoke with you in AUDIO LETTER No. 52, I have been receiving an avalanche of urgent Intelligence reports. Drastic secret developments have been taking place world-wide which have turned the international scene upside down. The most important of these have taken place right here in the United States, and in Russia. Now at last I am in a position to bring you up to date on what has happened.
My friends, during the weeks just passed, the prospects for world peace have been shattered. Here in the United States powerful forces who are bent on war are fast gaining the upper hand. And in Russia the peace faction in the Kremlin has been toppled from power. It began as a family squabble among the secret new Christian rulers of Russia, and it ended in tragedy for some. The result has been a return to power by the hard-liners among the secret sect that now rules Russia. The rise to power by the Christian peace faction in Russia was a miracle, but it was a miracle that was short-lived. It is now over, and now the world is once again moving down the path to THERMONUCLEAR WAR. The hard-liners now running the Kremlin are members of the same religious group as the peace faction. The hard-liners and the peace faction disagree on only one major point. The peace faction, who are known as the White Doves, believe nuclear war must be prevented if it is humanly possible. By contrast, the hard-liners believe nuclear war is inevitable; so, my friends, their guiding military strategy is not to prevent nuclear war indefinitely but to WIN it when it comes.
My three special topics this month are:
Topic #1 - WAR TENSIONS AND THE LATE SHAH OF IRAN
Topic #2 - THE SURPRISE TAKE-OVER BY THE KREMLIN HARD-LINERS
Topic #3 - THE NUCLEAR STRIKE OPERATIONS NOW IN PROGRESS
Topic #1
- Four nights ago on Thursday, January 17, millions of Americans tuned in the ABC television program 20/20. The program that night presented a heavily-edited interview by the British television personality David Frost. The person interviewed was said to be the former Shah of Iran. The individual we saw on the David Frost interview looked, sounded, and acted very much like the Shah, but he looked much healthier than the sickly-looking Shah in New York two months ago. This was true even though news reports had been saying the Shahs condition was deteriorating. Almost every time he answered a question the face became expressionless, and the eyes froze into a glassy stare. He spoke slowly, haltingly, as if groping around in a fuzzy memory to find the answers. And time after time he just gave up and said simply, I dont remember that. Later that same evening ABC presented its nightly special on the Iran crisis.
The program began with some follow-up discussion of the David Frost interview program. Dr. Joseph Sisco, former Under-Secretary of State, was among those asked for his reactions to the interview. Sisco appeared to be shaken by what he had seen. He said the Shah he knew had always been able to discuss the intricacies of geopolitics, not only as they affect the Persian Gulf but world-wide. By contrast, the man he saw on the David Frost interview was, quote: Uncertain in his speech; a completely different man from the one I knew. My friends, Dr. Sisco could not have been more right. The individual interviewed by David Frost in Panama was not the Shah at all. In fact, he was not even a human being. It was a kind of living robot, known as a synthetic automaton, or more briefly, a Synthetic. I first revealed last October 1979 in AUDIO LETTER No. 51 that Synthetics were beginning to appear on the scene. They are being deployed as a tool of intrigue by the warlike Bolsheviks here in the United States. They are the Bolshevik answer to another type of biological robot which the Russians began deploying earlier in 1979.
The Russian type is known as an Organic Robotoid, and I first made them public in AUDIO LETTER No. 46 last May. Both the Russian Robotoids and the Bolshevik Synthetics are remarkable creatures. They are manufactured by radically different technologies; but they have one thing in commonthey are both artificial life-forms which live and breathe but have to be programmed like computers, and they are the products of three decades of spectacular scientific discoveries out of public view. I have given a little of the scientific background in AUDIO LETTERS Nos. 47 and 51, but Robotoids and Synthetics remain perhaps the most secret of all Intelligence weapons.
In my previous tapes about these biological robots, I have mentioned that their most critical feature is their biological computer brain. In that regard, the Russian Robotoids are far superior to the Bolshevik Synthetics. Thats because of their holographic brain, which I described in detail in AUDIO LETTER No. 47. In AUDIO LETTER No. 51 I mentioned the low brain quality of the Synthetics; and if you were watching the alleged Shah of Iran in the David Frost interview the other night, you saw a perfect example with your own eyes. Synthetics easily pass for human beings, but they act dull-witted compared to the humans which they simulate. When David Frost interviewed the Synthetic double for the former Shah, he no doubt thought he was talking with the real thing; but by that time the real Shah had been dead for well over a month. He died in the early morning hours of Sunday, December 2, 1979.
In AUDIO LETTER No. 52 last November I explained why the Shah had been brought to New York City in the first place. He did undergo medical treatment, but that could have been done elsewhere. The once mighty Shah arrived in New York as a mere pawn in a deadly world-wide game of chess. For more than two years a secret war has been in progress between the new rulers of Russia and the overthrown former rulers of Russia, the Bolsheviks. Having been expelled from Russia by the tens of thousands, the old Bolsheviks have been flocking mainly here to the United States. They are in a rage to strike back at Russia, and they plan to do it using Americas military power. Over the past two years and more a sophisticated new Bolshevik revolution has been under way without fanfare here in the United States. I have kept my listeners informed about this situation in past AUDIO LETTERS.
The Bolsheviks are in a do-or-die frenzy to throw Americas military might at Russia; and in AUDIO LETTER No. 37 for August 1978, I revealed how they plan to do it. The Bolshevik war plan is based on an American nuclear first strike against Russia; and the chain of events to lead up to the first strike was to begin with a crisis over Iran. That is what I made public nearly a year and a half ago, and that is what is going on now right before our very eyes. My friends, we are on the road to NUCLEAR WAR ONE!
In AUDIO LETTER No. 52 I explained the purpose for which the former Shah of Iran was lured to New York City in late October. This was a Russian ploy carried out using their own Robotoid replacements for certain powerful Americans. They had discovered that the Bolsheviks here in America were setting in motion the dreaded Iran crisis. It was already too late for the Russians to prevent the crisis from erupting, so instead they maneuvered the Shah here in a pre-emptive strategy to change the course of the crisis. I gave the details of all this in AUDIO LETTER No. 52, so I wont repeat it again here. The Russian maneuvers involving the former Shah of Iran were set in motion while the Kremlin peace faction, the White Doves, were still calling the shots. They succeeded in their plan to make the former Shah the center of the Iran crisis, contrary to the Bolshevik plans; and later, when the time was ripe, they were planning to use their control over the Shah to make the crisis fizzle out. But, as I detailed in AUDIO LETTER No. 52, the Russians had their hands full in trying to sort out the Iran crisis. The Shahs trip to New York City was arranged on short notice. Having accomplished that much, the Russians put the Shah on ice during November 1979 while they concentrated on other pressing aspects of the crisis.
As December 1979 began, Russian agents here in the United States were preparing for new moves involving the Shah. For over five weeks the Shah had been holding court and receiving medical treatment at the New York hospital, Cornell Medical Center, in New York City. His suite on the 17th floor was walled off by a special barricade of bullet-proof glass. Everything having to do with the Shah was subject to intensive security precautions. Unknown to the Shah himself, he was the key to Russias plan to unravel the Iranian crisis without war; so the one thing the Russians could not afford was to have something happen to the Shah at that time.
By the time I recorded AUDIO LETTER No. 52 on November 30, 1979, plans were being laid to move the Shah. The Russians had begun to penetrate the Bolshevik strangle hold on Iran and were establishing a dialogue with the Khomeini government. The time had come to remove the Shah from the hospital. The advance preparations at the hospital were subtlebut not subtle enough. They were detected by Bolshevik agents within the hospital, and they were successful in learning the details of the plan to move the Shah before it took place. Shortly after 4:00 A.M. on the morning of December 2, 1979, the Shah left his hospital room in a wheel chair. He was accompanied by armed guards, including FBI agents brandishing submachine guns. They entered an elevator on the 17th floor of the hospital and went down to the subbasement. From there the Shah and his guards traveled along an underground tunnel to the Payson House staff residence on East 71st Street. There the Shahs party entered a parking garage.
The Shah was wheeled up to a blue-green FBI van. The Shah was helped out of his wheel chair and into the van. As soon as the Shah was inside, the doors of the van were shut and the van started moving. As it did so, three FBI cars joined up as an escort. The four-vehicle motorcade drove carefully toward the exit of the parking garage. As they did so, one of the Shahs guards in the van pulled out a powerful gun equipped with a silencer. He and the other guards in the Shahs van turned out to be Bolshevik Synthetics. By the time the Shahs van reached the exit of the parking garage the Shahs body lay slumped on the floor inside. Like his former patron Nelson Rockefeller, the Shah had died of a single bullet to the forehead. The other Synthetics in the front of the van did exactly as programmed. They drove on as if nothing had happened. FBI agents in the other cars detected no hint that anything was wrong. The motorcade drove the rest of the way to La Guardia Airport without incident. Only when the van was opened at the Airport was it discovered what had taken place.
News reports that day and the next were filled with headlines about the Shahs mysterious move to Texas. On television we were shown an Air Force DC-9 taking off in the darkness at La Guardia. We were told that the Shah was aboard, but he was not! His body was kept in a remote location at New Yorks La Guardia Airport until around 6:00 P.M. that evening, after which it was flown to a southern state for disposal. When the DC-9 was shown landing at the Air Base in Texas, we were told again it was the Shahs plane. Normally Lackland Air Force Base is unrestricted, but the Air Base was suddenly closed after the plane landed. There was confusion. Initially, Air Force officials at the Base said there would be a Press Conference that afternoon, but soon they reversed themselves. They not only canceled the Press Conference but told all reporters to leave the Base immediately or be forcibly ejected. The public relations plans which had been made ahead of time just fell apart. Instead a cover-up was hastily set in motion on orders from certain Russian agents in the Pentagon.
In the days that followed, all was mystery concerning the Shah. He was said to be in certain hospital quarters at Lackland; but as days passed and no one saw the Shah, questions began to multiply. Had it been suspected that the Shah was already dead, the Bolshevik agents holding the American hostages in Tehran might have killed the hostages, and that could have led very quickly to nuclear war. Meanwhile the Bolsheviks here in America were preparing to take control of the Shah controversy. The Bolshevik Synthetics are programmed by a technique completely different from that used by the Russians with their Robotoids. It is not as good, but it also does not require a cerebral hologram. Bolshevik agents in New York had been able to obtain the genetic samples needed, and on Saturday December 15 there was a new surprise regarding the Shah. He was said to have left Texas that morning for a small island off Panama. Then the invisible Shah seemingly reappeared in the form of a Synthetic, and since that time the Shahs image has been utilized by the Bolsheviks. As I told you earlier, it was a Synthetic that was seen in the David Frost television interview four nights ago. What happened to the late Shah of Iran is only part of a much larger pattern of recent days.
The Bolshevik deployment of Synthetics began in earnest three months ago, as I reported in AUDIO LETTER No. 51. As a by-product of this, bizarre cattle mutilations are once again taking place in North America. A few years ago there was a rash of these incidents in the western United States. At that time the earliest large-scale experiments were under way with Synthetics. Now, after a lull, the Synthetics are being deployed operationally, and the cattle mutilations have resumed. Right now, however, they are taking place primarily in Canada to minimize attention to them here in the United States. My friends, the cattle mutilations are nothing more than a modern twist on cattle rustling. The Synthetic process uses certain glands and tissues of cattle as raw material, as I explained in AUDIO LETTER No. 51. To obtain these raw materials, the cattle involved have to be destroyed in a very wasteful manner; so the Bolshevik agents who are manufacturing Synthetics do not use their own cattle, instead they let others suffer the losses involved in slaughtered herds. The cattle mutilations may turn into an epidemic that is too big to ignore, because during the past three months the Bolshevik circles have started deploying Synthetics in great numbers.
A covert war of biological robots is now raging world-wide between the Russians and their old Bolshevik enemies. The Russians got a head start by deploying their Robotoids first, last spring; but they knew their advantage would not last long, and they tried to use it fast to nail down approval of the SALT II treaty. Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko summed it up last June 25, 1979. In an unprecedented two-hour news conference in Moscow he paused at one point and said simply, Fantastic situation.
My friends, the dangers we face now are fantastic, but so was aerial warfare until World War I, the atomic bomb until World War II, and moon flight until Project Apollo. The Bolsheviks in our midst are obsessed with their schemes for revolution and war, rule or ruin. Using their Synthetics, they are fast regaining the power they were losing at the hands of Russias Robotoids. Unlike the Russians, the Bolsheviks have an entrenched power base here in the United States; and so the Russians are now losing the invisible war of the biological robots. With every day that their power increases, the Bolsheviks here in America redouble their frenzy to seize still more power.
To advance their revolution here, the Bolsheviks are gradually shutting down America. Tremors are shaking our economic system, and the United States dollar is awaiting the moment of collapse.
In April 1974 I gave a warning in Congressional testimony about plans which were being laid for a gold skyrocket. I testified that the plan called for gold to streak upward past $2,000 per ounce, and I described how this was tied to the secret theft of Americas monetary gold supply by international forces. I later offered to present evidence and witnesses under oath, but Congress was not interested. Then I went public with my warnings. But lies and maneuvers by the United States Treasury Department were swallowed like honey by most Americans, so nothing lasting was done to stop the plan for our economic destruction. Now, the gold skyrocket is a matter of daily headlines. Since I recorded AUDIO LETTER No. 52 less than two months ago, the price of gold has more than doubled. Gold auctions by the gold-poor United States Treasury have stopped, as I alerted you they would in December of 1978, AUDIO LETTER No. 41. Thousands of people are lining up to turn in their gold and silver, thinking they are receiving good dollars in exchange. But thats because the dollar is still being propped up artificially. When the time is ripe in Bolshevik plans, the props will be pulled out and the dollar will crash. The dollar is on the road to repudiation, which will make it worthless; and many of the wealthy abroad now believe that the United States does not have the gold it claims to have. The very few who do know about the plan to repudiate the dollar are not selling their gold and silver. They are holding on to it, and even buying more.
As the Bolsheviks press ahead in taking control of the United States, they are also working overtime to get ready for war. They want to destroy Russia, and they want you and me to do their dirty work. They already know that NUCLEAR WAR ONE will kill three out of every four Americans, but that does not worry them. Using their positions of privilege and power here in America, they believe they will survive, so they cant wait to throw the United States into nuclear war against Russia. When I recorded AUDIO LETTER No. 52 last November 30, the official line we were hearing daily was that Moslem students were holding our hostages in Tehran. Those stories were lies, and I told you so. The situation in the Embassy is controlled by Bolshevik agents. They are not true Moslems at all, and are beyond the control of Ayatollah Khomeini. Now more than a month later, youre hearing a distorted echo of what I told you then.
It is now being admitted that Ayatollah Khomeini does not control those who are holding our hostages, but you are being fed only half truths designed to rally your support for war. Thirteen days ago on January 8, 1980, a Synthetic double for our late President Carter said, quote: The most powerful single political entity in Iran consists of the international terrorists, or the kidnappers who are holding our hostagesbut their Bolshevik ties are not mentioned! Instead, you are being given the impression that they may be Russian inspired in some manner. Two months ago all Iranians were being lumped together, and the Bolsheviks were whipping up Americans into hating them all; but now we are suddenly hearing about the threat to Iran from Russia. We are being prepared for war with declarations that we may have to defend Iran militarily.
The Bolshevik military strategy remains as I described it nearly a year and a half ago in AUDIO LETTER No. 37. I will now repeat, word for word, the warning I gave you then:
The American public will demand that it is time for the United States to stand up to Russia; and with full public support, American troops and weapons will pour into Iran. From that point onward, the outbreak of NUCLEAR WAR ONE will be all but impossible for the public to follow by way of the so-called news.
Topic #2
- For nearly two years beginning early in 1978, Russias policies were controlled by the peace faction in the Kremlin, the White Doves. Meanwhile their Bolshevik enemies here in the United States have continued their relentless drive for war. As a result, the policies of the Kremlin peace faction have now been abandoned. Recent events in both the United States and Russia have brought about this change. My friends, you will not be able to understand events in the days to come if you do not understand the recent Kremlin take-over by the Hard-Liners; and to understand that, you need to remember the background of events which have led up to this point during the past several years. I first began discussing the new rulers of Russia in AUDIO LETTER No. 28 for November 1977. Later on I revealed much more about them in AUDIO LETTER No. 38, which was a special issue dealing entirely with Russia.
Russias new rulers struggled for six decades to overthrow the Bolsheviks, and through this long and bitter struggle the secret Kremlin Christians came to know the disease of Bolshevism more intimately than anyone else on earth. As I revealed also in AUDIO LETTER No. 38, they are embarked on what they consider a holy war to wipe out Bolshevism from the face of the earth. So long as it still survives anywhere in the world, they are convinced that both Russia and Christianity itself will be in mortal danger. Even so, there have always been two factions within the secret sect of Kremlin Christians on the issue of nuclear war. They all agree that nuclear war would be horrendous, but they disagree on whether it can be avoided. The minority faction, the White Doves, believe it is possible to avoid nuclear war; but the majority, the Hard-Liners, believe otherwise. They are convinced that no matter how many times nuclear war may be delayed, their Bolshevik enemies will eventually bring it about; and so they insist that the only realistic thing to do is to make sure Russia will win the war when it comes with as few casualties as possible.
The secret Kremlin Christians first began to outweigh the Bolsheviks in power when Joseph Stalin died in 1953. From that time until early 1978 the Hard-Liners were in power, and they were anxious to speed the day when Russia would break free not only from the Bolsheviks in Russia but also from the Rockefeller Cartel. In the summer of 1976 Russia began preparing for a limited nuclear Pearl Harbor attack against the United States, Great Britain, and other countries. It was the Underwater Missile Crisis of 1976, which I revealed in AUDIO LETTERS Nos. 14 through 16. It was a desperate situation, as my long-time listeners will recall; and yet the strategy of Admiral Gorshkov, the head of the Russian Navy, was one of limited war. If his naval strategy had worked, the initial attack on strategic coastal targets would have made further warfare useless. As I outlined in AUDIO LETTER No. 18, the worlds ICBMs and other nuclear weapons would never have been used.
But the limited public exposure of the underwater missile crisis through my AUDIO LETTERS had its consequences in the Kremlin. The Russians lost the critical element of surprise, and so the White Doves argued that the result of the Hard-Liners gamble could easily have been not limited war but total war. They insisted that Russia must never again try to deliberately trigger nuclear war. From then on, the influence of the White Doves grew steadily, but the Hard-Liners headed by the original Leonid Brezhnev stayed in the drivers seat until the end of 1977. It was the Hard-Liners who presided over Russias lightning-fast deployment of her secret new Space Triad of weapons during late 1977. I reported the deployment as it took place in AUDIO LETTERS Nos. 26 through 29.
All three legs of the Space Triad are built around Particle Beam Weapons. Up to now, Russia is still the only nation to deploy Particle Beams as operational weapons. The first leg of Russias Space Triad are the Cosmos Interceptors. These are manned killer satellites armed with Particle Beams. I first reported that they were operational in September 1977. They began destroying Americas fleet of Spy Satellites. An especially equipped Cosmos Interceptor, Cosmos 954, fought historys first true space battlethe Battle of the Harvest Moon, September 27, 1977. Firing a special Neutron Particle Beam, Cosmos 954 knocked out Americas secret military base on the moon.
The Russians then quickly deployed their own military bases on the moon, and these constitute the second leg of the Space Triad. Today Russian Particle Beam Weapons are located in seven (7) places on the near side of the moon. They can strike any visible spot on earth less than two (2) seconds after pulling the trigger; and they can deliver a blast of devastating force, as proven in the test firing of November 19, 1977, which I reported in AUDIO LETTER No. 29 the following month. In AUDIO LETTER No. 29 I also reported the beginning of Russias deployment of the third leg of her Space Triad. These are the Cosmosphereselectrogravitic weapon platforms which can hover over any spot on earth. They can operate in altitudes from ground level to about 800 miles, and are armed with Charged Particle Beams. The first few Cosmospheres to be deployed over the United States were used in an effort at intimidation.
In late December 1977 they began firing their Beam Weapons into the atmosphere off the east coast in a defocused mode. The results were the mysterious giant air booms which came rumbling in from the Atlantic Ocean to rattle and shake thousands of homes. Government and other spokesmen put out all kinds of stories to try to explain away the booms. One of the favorites was based on the Concorde supersonic transport. Somehow, we were told, the shock waves must be racing far ahead of the plane and causing the booms. Can you imagine? As I told you at the time, explanations like that were just ridiculous cover stories and lies; and recently a scientific study at Cornell University headed by Professor A. R. George proved exactly what I told you two years agothat is, a freak shock wave racing ahead of the Concorde could not have produced those bone-rattling booms. But two years ago, the stories served their purpose. People swallowed them and calmed down.
With the deployment of the secret Russian Space Triad during the closing days of 1977, the Russians were acting more aggressive by the day, but the No. 1 Hard-Liner in the Kremlin then was Leonid Brezhnev and his health was failing. He died on January 7, 1978, as I revealed in AUDIO LETTER No. 33. I also revealed that the new No. 1 man in the Kremlin was then Marshal Dmitry Ustinov, the Defense Minister. Ustinov was the leader of the White Doves, the peace faction, and from then on the Kremlin concentrated on preventing nuclear war by using SALT II to begin disarming their Bolshevik enemies here in America. After they deployed the Robotoids last spring, they almost succeeded with SALT II; but during the past few months they have been dealt one reversal after another by the Bolsheviks, and with the Synthetics now entering the picture, heated debate broke out in the Kremlin early last October between the White Doves and the Hard-Liners. Then tragedy struck in late October 1979. Suddenly the men who had been ruling Russia since early 1978 began dying of poison. These included Marshal Ustinov; Leonid Brezhnev No. 2, the ceremonial double for the late real Brezhnev; Chief of Staff Nikolai Ogarkov; and a number of others. Since then they have all been replaced by Robotoids. The men who died were members of the peace faction. They had accepted the fact that their mandate to govern was at an end. The new ruling group in Russia today are the Hard-Liners, and their leader is Admiral Sergei Gorshkov.
Topic #3
- The final legacy of the White Doves was their plan to use the Shah of Iran to unravel the Iranian crisis. The new Hard-Liners followed through with that plan out of reverence for their fallen friends; but when the Bolsheviks assassinated the Shah on December 2, they were ready to shift very quickly to more aggressive policies. The pace of events since then has been speeding up fast.
On December 12 NATO Foreign Ministers meeting in Brussels agreed to the new American plan for nuclear missiles to be aimed at Russia. Immediately the Kremlin totally withdrew all offers for negotiating arms control agreements in Europe. The Russians declared that NATO had destroyed the basis for negotiations. The Russians had also learned that the Bolsheviks in the United States were preparing to seize the Iranian oil fields, using the American hostages as an excuse. Russia prepared to move into Afghanistan. On December 27, 1979, a pro-Russian coup in Kabul brought the new regime of Babrak Karmal to power, and within days tens of thousands of Russian troops were pouring into Afghanistan. It was a classic case of chess-playing by Russias rulers. When an expert chess player makes a move, he always does so in anticipation of other moves to come. He evaluates the moves which his opponent will be forced to make in retaliation and has already planned how he will respond to those. Whenever possible he tries to provoke moves by his opponent which will work to his own advantage. And so it was in Afghanistan. First the Bolsheviks were deliberately provoking Russia by means of large-scale insurgent operations in Afghanistan.
These were supported by at least 18 separate rebel bases in neighboring Pakistan and involved Bolshevik CIA operatives and Chinese agents there. Afghan insurgents had already taken control of two-thirds of the country, and operations were also under way to stir up Moslem unrest in the whole region. Since Russia has 40-million Moslems of her own, these actions were bound to draw a response from Russia. The Bolsheviks here in America were fostering these operations in order to lure Russia into aggressive-looking behavior near Iran. Their plan, as I revealed in AUDIO LETTER No. 37 is, quote: Incidents and clashes will condition the American public to the increasingly aggressive behavior of Russia. But, my friends, the Russians know that is the Bolshevik war plan so they have looked one step beyond the Bolsheviks, and they are letting the Bolsheviks of America walk right into a military trap.
In AUDIO LETTER No. 37 I explained the plan for an American nuclear first strike against Russia. Its basic objective is to destroy the ground bases in Russia for her awesome Space Triad. There are six targets in this planfour are rocket bases called Cosmodromes, the other two are the Cosmosphere installations in south central Siberia. The plan calls for the targets to be attacked by American secret weapons, which I described in AUDIO LETTER No. 37. The four Cosmodromes are to be attacked from bases in northern Norway and the Caspian Sea coast of Iran.
Hybrid machines called Submersible Aircraft or Subcraft are to be used. As for the Cosmosphere installations in Central Siberia, the original plan was to use Sinkiang Province in western China as the base. In AUDIO LETTER No. 52 I stated that Sinkiang Province is not available; but early this month, on January 4, a Synthetic double for Defense Secretary Harold Brown went to China to try to change that. The Bolsheviks want to use Sinkiang Province to launch high speed pilotless aircraft called RPVs into Russia.
After Russia took action in Afghanistan, the Bolsheviks here in the United States began whipping up war fever quickly. On January 4 the Carter Synthetic then in the White House spoke on television about American retaliation for Russias intrusion into Afghanistan. Calling Russias rulers a, quote: atheistic government, the Carter Synthetic fired a series of broadsides. Invoking the old Bolshevik weapon of hunger, he embargoed 17-million tons of grain from going to Russia. To dramatize the crisis in a universal way, he threatened to pull the United States out of the Summer Olympics in Moscow; and to further kill hopes for peace, he suspended consideration of SALT II. In the days that followed, we began hearing more and more about the alleged threat to Iran from Russia, and within the past week or so the message suddenly started getting through to people. Everywhere I go I hear people talking about the threat of war, and THE THREAT IS REAL, my friends. Several days ago the military preparations for conflict shifted into high gear. Many Reservists are being called up all over the United States without a word about it in the news.
On January 12 the Kremlin issued a statement in the name of Leonid Brezhnev denouncing the Carter Administration. It spoke of the United States as having become, quote: an absolutely unreliable partner in international ties. It said the United States was, quote: sending to the shores of Iran a naval armada armed with atomic weapons and including a considerable part of the United States Carrier force. And, quote:
If there were no Afghanistan, certain circles in the United States and NATO would surely have found another pretext to aggravate the situation in the world.
As the supposed Brezhnev statement was issued, two American Carrier Task forces were in the Arabian Sea near Iran built around the Midway and the Kitty Hawk. Two days later a third powerful Carrier group arrived. It includes Americas newest and biggest Carrier, the nuclear-powered Nimitz, as well as the nuclear-powered Cruisers California and Texas. On January 17 the Russian Navy began deploying fast toward the Indian Ocean. A late model Kara-class Cruiser and four other ships were spotted sailing south through the Japan Sea that morning. By the following day, January 18, there were over 180 Russian Submarines on the way and still more were being ordered to join them; and at the same time Submarines were swarming into position around the United States armed with Neutron Missiles. Meanwhile a State Department spokesman helped heat up the crisis atmosphere. He said, quote:
Our commitment to Irans territorial integrity stands, despite their violation of International Law represented by their continued holding of our people.
The same evening, just last Friday, some television news programs tossed in items to say any conflict over Iran could quickly lead to nuclear war. And as these events were unfolding, Russian Cosmospheres were forming up over the crisis area. By early Friday evening there were 144 Cosmospheres on alert hovering over the Arabian Sea and adjacent land areas from Saudi Arabia to southern India. Last Saturday, January 19, robotoid Ambassador Thomas Watson returned to Moscow after weeks of absence. When he arrived at the airport he said, quote: There is no doubt but what we are in a very serious situation; and as he spoke of hopes for good will and effort on both sides, echoes of Pearl Harbor were in the making.
In AUDIO LETTER No. 34 I described how Japan was lured into making an attack on Pearl Harbor. First, Japanese anger at the United States had been stirred up by a variety of boycott techniques. Then, our fleet at Pearl Harbor was held out as an enticing target. Most of our Pacific fleet were conveniently bottled up in the harbor and they sat peacefully at anchor unable to respond quickly in an emergency, but our three Aircraft Carriers had been pulled away to safety because they were indispensable to the plans for counterattack against Japan. Today it is four decades later and we live in a new era of weaponry, so now it is the Aircraft Carriers themselves which have been demoted to the status of bait in a war trap. As of my latest report yesterday evening, all three American Aircraft Carriers near Iran are sitting at anchor. All are near the entrance to the Persian Gulf along the coast of Oman. The Midway and Kitty Hawk are resting at opposite ends of the Island of Masira; and the big prize, the Nimitz, is about twenty-five miles southeast of the capital, Muscat.
American statements have been designed to fuel Russian suspicions of an American military strike into Iran. This is intended to draw Russias Navy into the region in order to counter the United States military build-up there; and by ordering the Carriers to sit at anchor, the Bolsheviks in the United States military establishment hope to provoke the Russians into an attack but it is all a gigantic diversionary action. The purpose is to distract the Russians from the real preparations for a nuclear first strike against Russia. These preparations are the ones I warned about in AUDIO LETTER No. 37. When American military sources detected Russias massive naval deployment beginning January 17, it indicated that the plan was working. By the following day the Bolsheviks were sure. The Russian Navy was converging toward the Arabian Sea with breakneck speed.
At that point the real action got under way in the Caspian Sea and off northern Norway. The Subcraft with Israeli pilots were on their way. They were traveling under water on the first legs of their attack missions. By late Saturday night, two nights ago, the number of Russian naval vessels in the Arabian Sea was approaching 400. The majority of these were Submarines of all types; and as anticipated, the Russian fleet was fanning out into a band stretching from Saudi Arabia to India. The Russians were sealing off the southern portion of the Arabian Sea. As a result, American naval forces in the area, including the three Aircraft Carriers, are trapped. They are bottled up and hopelessly outnumbered, but all of this was exactly as expected by the American Bolsheviks; and so late Saturday night, Washington time, a coded signal was flashed to the Subcraft to continue as planned.
By that time, the northern contingent of Subcraft were in the White Sea. The southern contingent had reached the north end of the Caspian Sea. It was already daylight Sunday morning, the 20th, for the Subcraft contingents. Their orders were to wait out the day under water, out of sight; then, after nightfall they were to continue their steady approach to get close to their targets. The Subcraft were maintaining strict radio silence. They were also deep enough under water to be invisible from the air to either the eye or radar, yet they were also hugging the shorelines in water too shallow for Russian sonar to pick them up, and their infrared signatures were negligible as the result of extensive development. In short, by the standards of Western technology, they were undetectable; but in AUDIO LETTER No. 42 I revealed Russias master secret weapon.
It is called Psychoenergetic Range Finding or PRF. It is unlike sonar and similar techniques. PRF tunes into the actual atomic signature of a target, and there is no method known by which PRF can be jammed.
By deploying their Navy to the Arabian Sea, the Russians are pretending to be fooled by the Bolshevik distraction with the Aircraft Carriers. In this way they encouraged the Bolsheviks to launch the Subcraft toward their targets. They waited until the Subcraft were far away from their bases and out of sight of the Bolsheviks, who are directing the American first-strike operation; but the whole time they were being tracked by Cosmospheres overhead using PRF, and shortly after 1:00 A.M. yesterday morning Eastern Standard Time the Cosmospheres began firing their Charged Particle Beam Weapons. There were 10 Subcraft in the White Sea. Each disappeared in a blinding blue-white water spout of steam, smoke, and fire. In the north end of the Caspian there were 19 Subcraftthey, too, met the same fate.
In AUDIO LETTER No. 33 for April 1978 I revealed that the United States no longer has Spy Satellites which can spy on Russia. By that time, Russia had already destroyed them all, using their Cosmos Interceptors; and so the Bolshevik war-planners here in America were unable to observe the destruction of the Subcraft. The Subcraft had also been instructed to maintain strict radio silence, ironically to escape detection. So their total silence now has aroused no suspicions on the part of the Bolsheviks.
At this moment the Russian Navy is still deployed in the Arabian Sea as before. They are still pretending to be misled by the Bolshevik ploy with the Aircraft Carriers, because the Subcraft contingents were only half of the first-strike plan I described in AUDIO LETTER No. 37. The other half is to involve the RPVs in Sinkiang Province, China. When synthetic Defense Secretary Harold Brown went to China earlier this month, agreement was reached to allow American RPVs into Sinkiang Province. They are on their way there now, and are due to be set up for attack at the earliest possible moment. The Bolsheviks here in America believe their Subcraft are now waiting at their final checkpoints for the order to attack the Cosmodromes. They intend to give that order as soon as the RPVs are in place in Sinkiang Province. But the Russians intend to ruin the plan.
Presently stationed along Russias border with Sinkiang Province are four special Russian Commando detachments. They are an elite corps, highly trained and armed with battlefield nuclear weapons. They are there to attack and destroy the RPVs upon arrival before they can be fired. As a back-up, there are also 18 Cosmospheres overhead, but those will not be used unless it becomes absolutely necessary. The Russians are saving their most powerful weapons for the big war to come for maximum surprise. Right now they regard what they are doing as an operation to begin pulling the fangs of the Bolshevik dragon. They used Cosmospheres to destroy the Subcraft because their enemies were unable to observe it and learn anything; but there will be witnesses, even if they say nothing publicly, in Sinkiang Province.
The coming operation against Sinkiang Province is essential to the Russians, and so the operation is under the command of a top member of the new ruling group of Kremlin Hard-Liners. He is Victor Paputin, an engineer and formerly second in command of Russias National Police. Early this month on January 3, the day before the Harold Brown synthetic left for China, Pravda carried an announcement about Paputin. It reported his untimely death, but this was only a cover story to explain his sudden absence from Moscow. He was actually on his way to the Chinese border to be one step ahead of the Bolshevik first-strike plan. My friends, the decade of the 80s is starting off as a decade of mortal danger; but if the tempo of events continues at this rate, the danger will not last very far into the decade. One way or another it will all be over, soon.
Until next month, God willing, this is Dr. Beter. Thank you, and may God bless each and every one of you.
Return
