# Audio Letter #3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/audioletters/audioletters_03.htm

-
Audio Letter #3
Hello everybody. This is Dr. Beter speaking. Today is August 21, 1975 and this is my monthly Audio Letter #3. Today I want to discuss three major topics. The first two are in response to some things people have asked me about and the third topic has to do with some major shifts which are now in the works in the plans of the Rockefeller brothers. These topics are:
1. The Truth about the Assassination of President John F.Kennedy.
2. Some little known examples of economic power held by theRockefellers and how they hold that power.
3. How the Rockefeller Plans for World War III are being altered by Indira Gandhis crackdown on the CIA in India.
Before I launch into these three topics, however, I want to respond to numerous inquiries I have received in a different vein. There are a number of specialized newsletters which deal with various aspects of political economics and I am often asked if I can recommend any of them. I believe I have a responsibility to direct you toward reliable information sources, which in general do not include the Rockefeller-dominated major news media. One dealing with general news is the Daily News Digest, published by Research Publications, P.O. Box 27496, Phoenix, Arizona 85061
The other, which focuses primarily on financial affairs, is International Moneyline 16 East Trail Derian, Connecticut 06820
These complement rather than duplicate one another, and I suggest that you write to them both and decide for yourself. And now, TOPIC #1
TOPIC #1
- On November 22, 1963 the Nation and the World were shocked and stunned by a horrible news bulletin from Dallas, Texas. If you heard that bulletin, you probably remember exactly what you were doing when you first heard the impossible news. President John F. Kennedy, riding in a motorcade past thousands of friendly onlookers, had been shot. All too soon our worst fears were realized as we were told that our President had been assassinated.
In remarkably short order, attention focused on a single suspect named Lee Harvey Oswald, who was promptly rounded up and jailed. Oswalds background was thoroughly documented in government files and was the type that would normally have subjected him to intense surveillance by the Secret Service during the Presidents visit to Dallas. And yet, the fact that Oswald was an employee of the Texas Schoolbook Depository, right on the parade route, seemingly escaped attention ahead of time.
But immediately after the shooting he was immediately traced, cornered, and arrested. He was very nearly killed in a shoot-out in a movie theater, but instead shot and killed a police officer there and wound up being taken alive. Oswalds survival, however, was quickly remedied and on nation-wide television, no less. Arrangements were made for Oswald to be transferred from the Dallas jail to another location and TV crews were on hand to cover it.
As he was enroute from his jail cell to a waiting police car, a man named Jack Ruby, well known to the Dallas police and instantly recognized by them, was permitted to make his way to Oswalds side while still inside the police station. Millions of people watched in utter disbelief as Ruby proceeded to shoot and kill Oswald before their very eyes.
Oswald had been protesting over and over that he had been made a patsy but now he would never get to explain what he meant. Then Ruby himself was the next to go. Tough, rugged, healthy Jack Ruby strangely became ill and soon died while in jail. But Dorothy Kilgallen, the syndicated columnist, who was also famous as a panelist on the TV Show Whats My Line announced that she was about to blow the case wide open. She said that she had talked with Ruby and was about to publish explosive material he had given her in her next column. By odd coincidence she never wrote the column, or at least, it was never published. Instead, she allegedly died from a mixed dosage of drugs and alcohol even though she reportedly had no history of using either to any significant extent. Thus began a nightmare of confusion, doubt, frustration, and fear for the American people.
Key people with information bearing on President Kennedys murder died or vanished left and right in the months that followed, defying all laws of chance. The governments official investigation of the assassination was carried out, of course, by the Warren Commission appointed by our new President, Lyndon Johnson. The Commission was chaired by the then Chief Justice Earl Warren, who was actually guided to a considerable extent by a senior member of the Commissionthen Congressman Gerald Ford. Fords political star rose continuously from then on and, of course, he is now our first appointed President.
The basic proposal for the 25th Amendment to the United States Constitution, under which both Ford and Nelson Rockefeller acquired their present offices by appointment, was introduced in the Senate only three weeks to the day after President Kennedy was killedalmost as if it was ready and waiting. This proposal was introduced on December 13, 1963, by Senator Birch Bayh, who had been put into office by none other than Nelson Rockefeller. After the Warren Commission completed its work, Ford wrote a book strongly defending it. There is now a growing hue and cry to reopen the case. But if you think President Ford will ever do it, at least voluntarily, you had better think again. All of this is no doubt familiar to you, thanks to the efforts of numerous others who have uncovered and publicized various matters relating to the assassination. But my friends, firm and clear answers still have not been given you by anyone, to my knowledge, on two absolutely central questions:
1. Why was John Kennedy killed? 2. And How?
Over the years weve been inundated with facts, allegations and theories through articles, books, radio and television programs and what have you. Yet, these most central questions remain unanswered. I think this is why I am being bombarded with questions about the JFK assassination and I think the time has come for me to tell you what I can about it. First, the question of why President Kennedy was killed.
During the summer and early fall of 1962, Senator Kenneth Keating of New York embarked on a campaign to alert Americans to the presence of nuclear warhead missiles in Cuba aimed at the defenseless underbelly of the United States. For months he was ignored, scoffed at and ridiculed by appointed officials in the government. He might just as well have said the gold is gone from Ft. Knox. Obviously such a thing was too mind-boggling to be true. But after a while President Kennedy became concerned personallythat there might really be something to Senator Keatings charges. He decided that in any case they should, at least, be seriously investigated so that the countrys fears could be put to rest if they proved untrue.
Such a course of action is nothing more than common sense and once the President took a personal interest in the matter it was quickly discovered that Senator Keatings patently ridiculous charges were true. We all know that within a matter of days, with the United States on a world-wide military alert, President Kennedy went on nationwide television to tell Americans about the missiles and to demand that Russia remove them immediately. The Cuban missile crisis was upon us! A lot of Monday morning quarterbacking has been done in the years since. Many things have been debated such as whether or not he was wise in not demanding on-site inspections of Cuba afterwards to guarantee that all the missiles were really gone. But regardless of any of these arguments, John Kennedys courage in doing what he did was even greater than most Americans realize. For, he was not only confronting the Soviet Union in a deadly showdown, but he was also doublecrossing the Rockefeller interests, who had enabled him to become President in the first instance.
By exposing the Cuban missile build-up and stopping it just short of fully operational status, John Kennedy threw a massive monkey wrench into an attempt to speed-up the schedule of nuclear blackmail, which is part of the Rockefeller plan for complete control of America, in cooperation with their ancestral homeMother Russia.
Thanks to Kennedys action, an entirely new missile base in the Caribbean would now have to be found and developed to replace Cuba. As I say these words this job has been accomplished. The Republic of Guyana, a neighbor of Venezuela, has been turned into a complete police state by Forbes Burnham, who was put in office for that purpose by David Rockefeller. The Temehri Airfield in Guyana, 25 miles outside of Georgetown, bigger than JFK Airport in New York, was prematurely turned back to Guyana in 1965 by President Johnson in obedience to Rockefeller orders and it is now ringed by offensive nuclear missiles targeted on the Panama Canal and on cities in the United States. I have been warning about this situation for more than a year, but to no avail. The removal of the Cuban missiles also meant that Russian military superiority over the United States would have to be achieved by a slower and harder way over a period of years. American military research and development would have to be stalled while Russia went all out to catch up and surpass us. The Vietnamese conflict into which we were already being dragged for other purposes, could prove the ideal tool for this, causing us to waste our military resources by grinding up massive quantities in war without focusing much on improving military technology.
But here too, Jack Kennedy was getting in the way. Before he was killed he had already initiated a sequence of events which were to reverse an increasing Vietnamese involvement and extract us from the Indo-China combat scene relatively quickly. All of this meant that Jack Kennedy would have to go. He had launched his New Frontier with an idealistic view of an ambitious governmental program, which had been put together for him by Rockefeller agents for purposes quite different from those he himself envisioned.
But, he was beginning to see the light about what was really going on, even stating in a broadcast that Castro was a tool of an international conspiracy. Had he been given the chance he might in time have added up too many things correctly. For his great act of brave patriotism in the Cuban Missile Crisis, President John F. Kennedy thus became a marked man. Agents of the CIA, which has been strictly a tool of the Rockefellers ever since it was started in 1947, arranged a series of possible assassination setups in 1963. As it happened, the one which was actually carried out was the one in Dallas. This brings us to how the assassination was actually carried out. Unfortunately, I know of no delicate way to discuss this aspect of the case which is critically important. But contrary to the Rockefeller agents who dominate the United States government today, I remain convinced that the American people are not children, that we all want the truth, can handle it if it is given to us straight and can sense when it is not being given to us.
As you know the Warren Commission concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in killing President Kennedy. But this conclusion, which has been elaborately and vigorously defended by Gerald Ford, Walter Cronkite, and many other camp followers of the Rockefellers, rests on a premise that is a complete insult to the intelligence of every American. This premise is the so-called single bullet theory.
According to this theory, my friends, which was the official judgment of the Warren Commission, a single bullet fired from a barely operable 20-year-old rifle by a poorrepeat, poormarksman named Oswald, passed through President Kennedy, changed course, went through a car seat, struck Governor John Connally, smashed a rib or two, then smashed his wrist, then injured his leg, leaving behind fragments which Connally still carries in his body today, and then ended up in perfect laboratory specimen condition, completely undamaged except for the ballistic marks used to trace Oswalds gun. This single bullet theory is such nonsense that we would probably throw a mystery novel in the trash in disgust, if it contained an episode so silly and amateurish. But this fairy-tale was the only way that the Warren Commission could end up with their predetermined conclusion that Oswald acted alone and that we should therefore put the idea of a conspiracy out of our minds. Of course, Oswald was not around to tell his side of the story, but never mind. A note was conveniently found which we were assured Oswald had written explaining that he planned to kill President Kennedy.
Well my friends, that single bullet did not kill President Kennedy, nor did any other snipers bullet. In fact, technical analysis of the famous Zapruder and associated films done secretly for me reveals the President was murdered by means that were far more reliable than even the best sharpshooters. Before I tell you what did happen, based on my own information, let me review several facts which to my knowledge have until now never been explained satisfactorily. These facts are gruesome, but they have to be observed and analyzed objectively if the truth is to be known:
Fact: Before the fatal shot, President Kennedy had already been hit from behind by a shot which had caused him to lean slightly forward and face downward.
Fact: He was then killed by a shot that literally blew the upper rear portion of his head off. Several square inches of skull were blown away.
Fact: This fatal shot snapped his head and body violently backward and somewhat upward in his seat.
Fact: Debris from President Kennedys head exploded to the rear, landing all over the left rear deck of the open top limousine. Kennedy was sitting in the right rear seat.
Fact: At the instant of the fatal shot the Zapruder film shows what appears to be a rush of somethinga blast of some sort into Kennedys face from downward and in front of him from a position within the car. This has never been commented upon, to my knowledge, by TV commentators when the Zapruder film has been telecast. But watch for this blast from within the car. Its there.
Fact: The Presidential limousine in which the assassination occurred was dismantled and destroyed within 48 hours. This was a grossly illegal destruction of material evidence. Fact: Pathologists and researchers, who have recently been admitted to the National Archives, report that the remains of President Kennedys brain, another crucial piece of evidence, is strangely missing, misplaced, gone!
Here now is my conclusion based on these facts, plus technical opinions which have been provided to me confidentially. I challenge the United States government to prove me wrong. The Conspirators left nothing to chance or the vagaries of marksmanship. President Kennedy was killed by devicemounted inside the limousine and fired at him from point blank range. The murder weapon was, of course, hidden, mounted inside the seat upholstery in front of the President.
Based on the appearance of the blast in the Zapruder film, its possible that the murder weapon was essentially an extremely sawed off shotgun, hidden in the seat upholstery ahead of him. But it appears much more likely that the blast was produced by what is known as a shaped charge in a special mounting. A shaped charge is a specially configurated explosive device which essentially produces a focused explosionthat is, an explosion that mostly aims in one direction instead of going in all directions like a stick of dynamite. A shaped charge is what enables a bazooka to blast a Sherman Tank out of action and shaped charges come in many sizes including some small enough to have been hidden easily in the Kennedy limousine. An advantage of the shaped charge, from the Conspirators view point, is that contrary to a gun or shotgun it would not produce a bullet or buckshot which might be found by someone in the vicinity and cause undesirable questions to be asked. The only problem with the shaped charge would be its noise. Such a bang would tend to attract the attention of others in the car.
However, the Conspirators knew that Jackie Kennedy would be too distraught and preoccupied with Jack himself after the blast to have such details register, and the driver of the car would also be preoccupied with the urge of business of trying to maneuver out of the ambush. But that still left Governor John Connally, riding in the front seat ahead of the President. The sound of the shaped charge could be expected to attract his attention, even if it was muffled and partially lost in the confusion of gunshots from snipers.
The possibility existed that Connally alone might be able to detect that some sort of device had been fired just behind him inside the car. Therefore John Connally was a specific target in the ambush along with Kennedy. He was not, as has often been supposed, merely the victim of a stray bullet, much less the victim of a bullet that had first struck Kennedy as alleged by the Warren Commission. Connally was potentially the single most dangerous witness to the assassination. So, it was imperative that he be incapacitated or killed outright. It did not really matter whether Connally was killed or just seriously injured, so long as his ability to observe events clearly was ruined. This they, of course, accomplished.
Thus multiple sharpshooters were firing at the motorcade for several purposes as it passed through Dealey Plaza. First they were to create an ambush environmenta distraction so that the murder blast from within the car would not be recognized for what it was. Second they were to shoot Governor Connally. Merely as a third priority they were also to hit the President with a shot or two just as insurance against any possible malfunction of the murder device mounted in the car. Vice President Lyndon Johnson was not a target at all.
Once it is recognized that the murder blast came from within the car from a position of firing slightly upward into Kennedys face, all the contorted and forced explanations you have heard up to now about a lot of things cease to be necessary. The bazooka-like blast very naturally threw him violently backward, inflicted the incredibly massive head wounds that killed him and threw debris all over the rear deck of the car. Furthermore, it is now all too clear why the Conspirators would have wanted such an elaborately rigged car destroyed quickly afterwardssomething which could scarcely have been done, by the way, without orders or at least approval from the new President Lyndon Johnson. It is also obvious why Kennedys preserved brain has been spirited away from the National Archives. One look at the wounds inflicted by the murder weapon in the car would cause all of the conclusions of the Warren Commission to be thrown in the garbage binexactly where they belong.
With their new puppet Lyndon Johnson in the White House, the Rockefeller plans were once again safe. Indeed the Rockefellers squeezed every bit of mileage they could out of JFKs death. As already mentioned, the basic outline of the 25th Amendment cooked up by Nelson Rockefeller years before was proposed to Congress only three weeks after Kennedy died. Also, seizing on the complete lie that he had been killed by a lonely loony with a cheap gun, a powerful campaign was launched to disarm the American people under the euphemistic banner of gun control. LBJ was used to ramrod massive chunks of the disastrous Rockefeller governmental program through Congressall the time saying Lets do it for Jack. And the Vietnam War spigot, which Kennedy was preparing to turn off, was now opened wide by Johnson. The Rockefeller interests were thus served admirably. American technological creativeness was siphoned off to the benefit of Russia.
Deep involvement in Indo-China helped the Rockefellers to eventually attain control they desired over vast high quality oil reserves in that region which rival those of the Middle East and South China Sea. And the Rockefellers, who are the biggest munition makers in the Worldthe merchants of deathreap tremendous profits at the expense of taxpayers money and GIs lives and injuries.
But some important questions still remain to be answered concerning the murder of President Kennedy:
1. Was the device which was the approximate cause of Kennedys death triggered by someone in the limousine or on the limousine, or outside it? 2. Who prepared this device for the execution of President Kennedy? 3. Who had control over the limousine immediately prior to its use in Dallas? To generalize is to omit. It is in the details of things where the truth lies. There is no doubt in my mind that a number of persons were involved in the conspiracy to kill President Kennedyno doubt at all.
1. Was the device which was the approximate cause of Kennedys death triggered by someone in the limousine or on the limousine, or outside it?
2. Who prepared this device for the execution of President Kennedy?
3. Who had control over the limousine immediately prior to its use in Dallas? To generalize is to omit. It is in the details of things where the truth lies. There is no doubt in my mind that a number of persons were involved in the conspiracy to kill President Kennedyno doubt at all.
It took a group of experts to install the death device. It took another group to cause distraction and it took only one person to trigger the death devicethe shaped charge outside the limousine by remote control through a radio signal. President Nixon once said that only 3 persons in the United States understood powerone was himself, another was Nelson Rockefeller, the other was John Connally, who was almost eliminated in the Kennedy ambush. We all know that power corrupts and that thieves eventually fall out among themselves. Nixon has been eliminated and now only Rockefeller and Connally remain. Which will win the power play to rule us all? Are we reduced to these two power blocs? Are there no other alternatives? Who will remain to use the CIA as his own personal tool? Why not abolish this CIA, this private super Gestapo agency, now controlled by the Rockefeller brothers themselves? Why not have a Congressional investigation and a grand jury investigation by opening the Kennedy Assassination to answer these and other questions? I leave it to you dear listeners.
TO BE AWARE IS TO CARE AND TO CARE IS TO ACT!
I turn now to Topic #2.
Topic #2
- A generation ago the so-called Third Generation of the Rockefellers began rapidly taking over the reins of one of the worlds biggest economic empires from their father, John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Of the six members of the Third Generation (five brothers and a sister), two proved to be relatively easygoing and content, by Rockefeller standards, with their immense inherited wealth. These two were the sister Abby and the late Winthrop Rockefeller, who served as Governor of Arkansas for a time. But the other four brothers were incredibly ambitious, more so than even their grandfather, John D, Sr., and more ruthless as well. They considered the immense empire they had inherited to be merely a convenient springboard from which to launch really big things.
Their father, John D., Jr., had been in the forefront of those who sought to dismantle the Christian faith and remake it into a humanistic man-made philosophy; and in this connection he had brought up his children to believe that they were uniquely endowed and chosen to rule the world. In the case of the Four BrothersJohn D. III, Nelson, Laurance, and Davidthis training took, and for several decades these four brothers have worked tirelessly as a unit in a relentless conquest for control of America and domination of the world for their own Mother Russia.
In this connection they were simply carrying forward some of the things that their father and grandfather had already started, but they did so with greater diligence and vastly greater resourcesthan their forebearers had had at their disposal.
The Four Brothers long ago divided up the world into spheres of influence for each to concentrate on. John D. III carved out Asia and Africa for his special attentions and also emerged in the forefront of many so-called philanthropic activities, although the philanthropic image or halo is one cultivated by all of the Rockefellers. As I mentioned in my monthly AUDIO LETTER No. 1 for June 1975, John was personally involved in the spy-nest plotting at Lee, Massachusetts, which laid the groundwork for the Pearl Harbor attack which dragged an unwilling America into World War II. His participation in this plotting was done under the cloak of a supposedly philanthropic international activity called the Institute of Pacific Relations, or IPR. After the war the IPR was abolished after Congressional investigations exposed its infamous role against America.
Its interesting that John is taking a more visible stance than usual these days, heading the propaganda drive that is intended to pave the way for the secret NEW CONSTITUTION Ive described in my latest AUDIO BOOK on that subject. For example, the Rockefeller-controlled Hertz Rent-A-Car Company has just launched a new magazine for customers called NUMBER ONE, and the inaugural issue contains a cover article titled, quote: JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER III - SOME STRONG IDEAS AMERICANS CAN USE IN THE SECOND REVOLUTION. In that article Johns involvement in the IPR is paraded as if it were something to be proud of; but it doesnt mention that after Japan was defeated in the War (that the IPR helped bring about), John D. Rockefeller III swooped down with his entourage and proceeded to take over the Japanese economy lock, stock, and barrel, consolidating great chunks of it into a huge cartel called the Zaibatsu. The so-called economic miracle of Japan is in fact no more surprising than the remarkably American appearance of this Asian giant since the War. Since World War II both America and Japan have been under Rockefeller control. After all, even SONY stands for nothing more than the former Standard Oil Company of New York!
Turning now to Nelson, I have said much elsewhere, particularly in monthly AUDIO LETTER No. 1; and suffice it to say that he carved out the United States and Latin America for his special focus, and has played the role of inside man in our Government ever since the days when he was the so-called closest advisor of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was a complete puppet of the Rockefellers. To enhance his Latin American image, Nelson has for many years pretended great enthusiasm over Latin American art of all kinds; but in Latin America itself his rapacious economic activities in the past helped create the image which has been termed The Ugly American, and he was long ago labeled Public Enemy No. 1 by certain Latin American newspapers. Then there is Laurance Rockefeller, who received some unfavorable publicity during the confirmation hearings for Nelsons Vice-Presidency. It was Laurance, of course, who financed the celebrated anti-Goldberg book to help brother Nelson in his gubernatorial reelection campaign in 1970; and judging from the testimony, shelling out $60,000 for this purpose apparently took about as much deliberation as buying a box of paper clips would for you or me. Moral scruples dont appear to have been a problem but appearances were, since the $60,000 was carefully laundered through a roundabout legal route so that the source of the books financing would not be readily apparent.
Lest anyone should consider such shenanigans suspicious though, the testimony contains a beautiful example of the kind of logic the Rockefeller Brothers use, regulated to befuddle their critics. It was stated that this circuitous routing and disguising of funds for the book wasnt laundering at all but merely a very common practice in Rockefeller dealings. In other words, they hide what they do all the time, so therefore it must be OK. Here, my friends, is just one hint of the fact that Rockefeller control is extremely pervasive throughout our society, but it is hidden from our view more often than not. At any rate, Laurances domain includes the airlines, aerospace, and arms industries of the Rockefellers who are the worlds biggest and most aggressive merchants of death. It also includes the Stock Market and its manipulation. As you see the stock market crash I have been warning about developing before our eyes, you can send your Thank You notes to Laurance Rockefeller. Finally we come to David Rockefeller, the youngest of the four brothers and the most powerful of them all. David is Chairman of the mammoth Chase Manhattan Bank, one of the two or three largest bank networks in the world with over 2000 branches in some 98 countries throughout the entire world. Chase Manhattan is a prime source of loan funds to the largest companies in America and abroad, and its Trust Department owns huge amounts of stock in companies that constitute the backbone of the American economy. By granting or denying loans, by hiring ex-CIA agents, by applying pressure on companies that are in debt to Chase Manhattan (including pressure to change the make-up of Boards and Directors of corporations, banks, insurance companies, etc. by selectively buying and selling stocks and by other means), David Rockefeller is in a position to pull some very powerful strings just through Chase Manhattan alone.
But even Chase Manhattan Bank is the only tiny visible tip of David Rockefellers iceberg. David Rockefeller is no ordinary bankerhe is the key custodian of the incredible world-wide Rockefeller financial empire and through it he is the most powerful international banker in the world. The Rockefellers control not only Chase Manhattan Bank but many of the other key money houses both in America and abroad. They control the First National City Bank of New York, the largest in New York City, plus a number of the other major New York banks. They also control many banks where their Cartel is not widely recognizedsuch as the Bank of America which is the largest bank in the United States, and also the multinational banks abroad including many investment banking houses here and abroad. The fact that the Rockefellers have succeeded in taking over the huge Morgan interests, which used to be the biggest competitors of the Rockefellers in America, comes as a distinct shock to many people. After all, Morgan Guaranty Trust reportedly maintains a stock portfolio worth 23-1/2 billion dollars at the present time, the biggest in America. Well, my friends, no less than 16 of the 24 Directors of Morgan Guaranty Trust are now Rockefeller agents; and since some have found it unbelievable that Morgan Guaranty is now Rockefeller dominated, I am now going to name these 16 Directors and Rockefeller-controlled organizations in which they are kingpins.
They are:
J. Paul Austinof Coca Cola. R. Manning Brown, Jr.of the N. Y. Life. Frank T. Caryof IBM, one of the five multi-nationals which the Rockefellers used in 1971 to 1972 to launch STAGFLATION through monetary manipulations in Europe. W. Graham Clayton, Jr.of the Southern Railway. Emilio G. Colladoof Exxon, the largest corporation in the world and the apple of the Rockefellers eye. Chas. D. Dickey, Jr.of Scott Paper. John T. Dorrance, Jr.of Campbell Soup. Louis W. Foyleof Bethlehem Steel. Thomas S. Gatesformerly of the Defense Department. Howard W. Johnsonof M.I.T. Donald P. Kircherof the Singer Co. Donald E. Procknowof Western Electric. Warren M. Chafleeof Ralston Purina. Geo. P. Shultzone of the Ft. Knox gold conspirators, who has been paid off with the presidency of the Rockefellers Bechtel Corporation and as a consultant to many of David Rockefellers corporations. Olcott D. Smithof Aetna Life & Casualty. Henry S. Wingateof International Nickel Company of Canada.
J. Paul Austinof Coca Cola.
R. Manning Brown, Jr.of the N. Y. Life.
Frank T. Caryof IBM, one of the five multi-nationals which the Rockefellers used in 1971 to 1972 to launch STAGFLATION through monetary manipulations in Europe.
W. Graham Clayton, Jr.of the Southern Railway. Emilio G. Colladoof Exxon, the largest corporation in the world and the apple of the Rockefellers eye.
Chas. D. Dickey, Jr.of Scott Paper.
John T. Dorrance, Jr.of Campbell Soup.
Louis W. Foyleof Bethlehem Steel.
Thomas S. Gatesformerly of the Defense Department.
Howard W. Johnsonof M.I.T.
Donald P. Kircherof the Singer Co.
Donald E. Procknowof Western Electric.
Warren M. Chafleeof Ralston Purina.
Geo. P. Shultzone of the Ft. Knox gold conspirators, who has been paid off with the presidency of the Rockefellers Bechtel Corporation and as a consultant to many of David Rockefellers corporations.
Olcott D. Smithof Aetna Life & Casualty.
Henry S. Wingateof International Nickel Company of Canada.
Their financial empire also includes many of the largest life insurance companies. It also includes control of the privately owned central bank system that causes our money to be printedthe Federal Reserve System.
Through control, direct and indirect, of both the Federal Reserve and the top officials of the United States Treasury, David Rockefeller was able to remove Americas gold, as I have discussed elsewhere. For details on that, I refer you to my AUDIO BOOK on the FORT KNOX GOLD SCANDAL and to the update in my monthly AUDIO LETTER No. 2 for July 1975. David Rockefeller himself is a Director of the New York Federal Reserve Bank Board of Directors. Paul Volcker is now President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, and he was a former Assistant Secretary for International Monetary Affairs, and he helped David to take the gold from Fort Knox with the other people involved. The Fort Knox Gold Scandal cover-up conspiracy keeps right on spreading as they try to cover their tracks. The Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking CommitteesSenator Proxmire and Congressman Henry Reuss, respectivelyare trying to keep the lid on the Fort Knox gold controversy long enough to let the Treasury devise some sort of publicity gimmick to trick the public once again, as they did with the so-called Gold Inspection visit in September 1974. And to this end I have just been informed that an attempt is now being made to put some borrowed gold bars into the Central Core Vault at Fort Knox, whose existence I revealed for the first time last month, and which has been empty up to this point; but it is going to be very, very difficult to return over 753,000 bars of gold to that Central Core Vault.
All of these things and much more, my friends, lie within David Rockefellers bailiwick. It was David Rockefeller who single-handedly turned our Middle East policy around in February 1974 in order to prevent his Middle East oil empire from being wrenched out of Rockefeller control in connection with the Arab oil embargo. King Faisal of Saudi Arabia was, as you will recall, a key to the success of that unified Arab action; and in doing what he did, he was placing what he judged to be the Arabs best interests above those of the Rockefellers. For 30 years since acquiring the Saudi oil fields by means of World War II and developing them initially with free G.I. labor at taxpayers expense, the Rockefellers had had their own way. The net price of Arab oil to the Rockefellers during that 30 yearsthanks to charge-backs and various deviceswas only five (5) cents a barrel. Imagine! Crude oil at 5 cents a barrel for over 30 years! What immense profit inured to the Rockefellers.
But King Faisal had now decided to put his own peoples interest firstjust as John Kennedy had done for America in 1963. Both actions amounted to a double-crossing of the Rockefellers, and both resulted in assassination little more than a year afterward. It is not possible to discuss the dimensions of Rockefeller control more than superficially in so short a time, but perhaps you can begin to grasp some idea how it works. They own controlling interests in over 300 multinational banks and corporations, hiding the bulk of this ownership through the use of many thousands of nominees and so-called street names. Through their control of banks and foundations they are able to create well-disguised director interlocks through which they are able to run their entire giant economic empire as one huge cartel. The monopolistic practices of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. pale by comparison with the runaway international monster that has been put together by the Four Rockefeller Brothers; and this economic empire built around multinational corporations, which yield allegiance to no country but to the Rockefellers instead, is increasingly a political empire as well. As time goes on, their control over what remains outside their grasp is spreading even more rapidly.
On July 30, 1975, the Rockefeller interests took a decisive step toward consolidation of their control over still another major power base in Americathe Teamsters Union. On that day, according to information which has just reached me, the abduction of former Teamster President James R. Hoffa was accomplished on behalf of the Rockefellers. The reason: Frank Fitzsimmons, the current Teamster president, is being drawn into the web of Rockefeller control. Hoffa, embarking on a concerted drive to regain control of the Teamsters, constituted a distinct threat to Rockefeller progress in this area, and the Rockefellers seek every bit of control that they can possibly achieve over the distribution systems of our nation as a critical tool in producing massive supply disruptions and shortages in the near future. These, in turn, are to form part of the economic breakdown by which they plan to make us accept their dictatorial NEW CONSTITUTION. The stakes are very high, and Jimmy Hoffa got in the way, possibly without ever realizing it. I turn now to Topic #3.
Topic #3
- In October 1974 I recorded my first AUDIO BOOK entitled: HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF DURING THE COMING DEPRESSION AND THIRD WORLD WAR. In that tape I reported that World War III was being planned to begin in a few short yearsthat it would be NUCLEAR war with America as the main battleground, and that it would drag for over a year. Then in March 1975 in my AUDIO BOOK on the FORT KNOX GOLD SCANDAL AND WHAT IT MEANS TO YOU, I reported that the war plans were still on track, and explained their purpose to you more fully.
As I mentioned in that second tape, the Rockefellers were beginning to be thrown off balance by their difficulties in keeping the lid on the Ft. Knox Gold Scandal which, if it ever breaks into the open, could blow them out of the water in so far as their dictatorship plans are concerned. And as I say these words, these and other problems have so far prevented Nelson Rockefeller from making good his plan to expel Gerald Ford from the presidency and confer that office upon himself. There are ominous signs lately that he is now gearing up to do this as soon as the time is ripe. It hasnt happened yet. Yes, Nelson Rockefeller has probably made me look foolish in the eyes of some people because he failed to become President on his schedule of June 1975. I began publicly spotlighting Rockefellers plan to do this over a year ago before Gerald Ford became President and before he surprised everybody by selecting Rockefeller, from an initial field of fifteen, to nominate him as Vice-President. But, my friends, my very purpose in revealing the confidential information I receive about these things is to prevent them from happening if I can.
I am not one of those who by psychic or other means go around predicting doom and gloom, and then gleefully saying, See, I told you so if it comes true. The things I am trying to warn you about are terrible thingsnot just for you but for me too. I dont want them to happen. This is a beautiful, wonderful land that God has given to us to live in, and I want my three small children as well as yours to have the blessings of freedom with which to enjoy it when they grow up. In this spirit, I am glad to be able to tell you of changes in the Rockefeller plans whenever these reflect failures or slippages in their diabolical scheming. And I can report to you that alterations in the war plans are now in the works, not because of anything I have done but because of what Indira Gandhi of India has done. You probably have heard some short-lived news reports in connection with recent events in India suggesting that the CIA might have been involved in some way. These suggestions were quickly brushed aside and hushed up by our own Government, but they happen to be true. If you share the image that most Americans have of India, you probably think of teeming over-populated cities filled with underfed people, sacred cows wandering through the streets, vast bureaucrats problems, and much elseand not much else at that. But India is much more than that, possessing a very considerable industrial base and relatively unexploited natural resources, such as always attract the greedy attention of the Rockefellers.
For five years now the CIA has been working its way into position to stage a take-over of India, just as has been done elsewhere repeatedly. Just as Portugal was thrown into revolution over a year ago under a ten-year Rockefeller plan; and just as the Union of South Africa is scheduled for extinction by the Rockefellers three years from now, India was under attack. And Indira Gandhi, the only really strong leader in India today, was being systematically undermined by an Indian-style Watergate staged there, as here, by the CIA in behalf of the Rockefellers.
But Indira Gandhi has confounded everybody. She confounded everyone with her ferocious counterattack. Its tragic that at this point at least she has gone so far with this counterattack that she appears to have destroyed the very foundations of freedom she intended to defend. But what triggered the recent events in India was the meddling of the CIA in her internal affairs. As a result, the war plans I have warned you about up to now are being put on a back burner. They could come to the fore again; but India is such a huge prize that the war plans are now being revised on Indias account.
The new plan that is rapidly emerging now calls for war to begin in March 1977 with Red China and Japan attacking India. The alliance under which this would occur is already forming now. While our eyes were focused recently on the Helsinki Summit Conference to ratify Soviet conquests in Europe, the real action was going on in Asia. The Sino-Japanese Treaty of Peace and Friendship is now being negotiated as the first step toward a military alliance. As things are progressing now, these two will attack India in 1977 and Russia will come to the so-called aid of India. The United States will then be sucked into the fray, serving as a factory to supply Russia and India, and the purpose of all would be to take over India in a different way. All of this reflects a rapid and major change away from the trend that existed prior to the recent events in India. This war is planned sooner than the original schedule for World War III since the new plans no longer call for Russia to join the new Far East Axis but instead to be on the other side. And, of course, the new plans do not involve hostilities on American soil as they stand right now. Keep in mind though that further changes can and probably will occur. In particular, should Indira Gandhi be toppled from power again soon, it may well enable the CIA to put the original take-over plans back on track, and that would probably restore the original plan for war on the United States by way of an attack on the Panama Canal by atomic missiles fired from Guyana. The Helsinki Summit Conference now frees Soviet Russia to turn her attention to the Eastthat is, to China and try to encircle China.
Lets all pray that the ugly plans for conquest by the Rockefeller Brothers will yet be stopped, and lets all do our part as citizens to cause these plans to be stopped! Lets bring them to justice for stealing our gold, and from there lets start restoring sanity, integrity, and true representation in our government.
The CONSTITUTION, my friends, protects all of us, and we should vote out all of those people who are now in the control of the Rockefellers. We should break up their large socialist corporations and re-establish free enterprise. We should eliminate the large corporate and subsidized farms and return the land they own to individuals for small farms. And we should eliminate the Personal Income Tax with its resultant enslavement of the middle class and the poor, while the Rockefellers go relatively free of tax by their use of tax-free foundations and devices.
Thank you. Until next month, this is Dr. Beter. God bless each and every one of you.
Return
