# Australia Becomes First to Ban Travelers Who Refuse Naked Body Scanners

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_bigbrother81.htm

by John Galt
February 5, 2012 from ActivistPost Website
Australia continues trying to outdo America's march toward authoritarian control over its population. The two countries seem to be trading salvos to see which can eradicate the rights of their citizens faster.
Australia appears to have taken the lead with their latest proposal to ban travelers who refuse being subjected to the full body microwave radiation scans that have proven to be a horrible invasion of privacy, as well as a legitimate threat to one's health. The list of assurances from the Australian government via its Orwellian-named Privacy Commission echo similar false guarantees issued by America's TSA: passengers will not appear nude, and the images will be discarded.
However, there is no mention of the cumulative negative health effects (particularly to children) of receiving a mandatory mega dose of radiation each time one exercises their right to travel by plane. Australia's transport minister, Anthony Albanese, cites the unsubstantiated claim that,
...the public understands that we live in a world where there are threats to our security and experience shows they want the peace of mind that comes with knowing government is doing all it can.
Adding for good measure that,
For this technology to work effectively, obviously there can't be an option to refuse screening.
Obviously. What is more obvious is the blatant disregard of a public which wants very little to do with this technology. The website Airport Body Scanner Truth, reveals the flawed polling techniques that have been used and manipulated by the corporate media and the tyrannical powers they serve. In one CBS poll that revealed 81% of people approved of full body X-ray machines, their simplistic methods demonstrated that:
They asked a random sampling of Americans - not American flyers, or American frequent flyers. They did not follow up with questions regarding the likeliness of approval if the subject knew that the machines were potentially harmful, that graphic images were being stored, that they violated child pornography laws, that security experts believe they are ineffective and wasteful, that you may be subjected to sexual molestation even after using the machines, or that pilots and flight attendants recommend not to use them. (Source)
They asked a random sampling of Americans - not American flyers, or American frequent flyers.
They did not follow up with questions regarding the likeliness of approval if the subject knew that the machines were potentially harmful, that graphic images were being stored, that they violated child pornography laws, that security experts believe they are ineffective and wasteful, that you may be subjected to sexual molestation even after using the machines, or that pilots and flight attendants recommend not to use them.
(Source)
The devil is in the details once again. When people are properly informed, instead of being subjected to fear mongering and hyperbole of an exceedingly rare event like a terror threat to airline travel, the results are far different, as seen in an Infowars.com poll, which revealed:
"...that over 90 percent of respondents will not use commercial airlines if airports continue to subject travelers to deadly radiation emitting naked body scanners. 92% said they would avoid airports while 8% said use of the devices would not stop them from flying." (Source)
"...that over 90 percent of respondents will not use commercial airlines if airports continue to subject travelers to deadly radiation emitting naked body scanners. 92% said they would avoid airports while 8% said use of the devices would not stop them from flying."
These results from an educated alternative media source with a global readership (and nearly 14 times the number of respondents as the CBS poll cited above, incidentally) is evidence that people the world over can see through the scam of the decade known as the global 'war on terror' if they are permitted to properly evaluate available information that can lead them to a more rational conclusion. Australia's attempt at a "no scan, no fly" policy is surely to be cited as a precedent for global travel, including the United States, as the journey from "opt-out" to "mandatory" continues unimpeded. We must continue to expose the corrupt authoritarians that are forcing this dangerous technology upon us even as we make our voices heard that we see through their lies and distortions. We must also reach out to airport workers who are being affected the most by these X-ray machines. The corporatist political structure will never stop without mass outrage, mass non-cooperation, and a mass stand-down by those on the front lines of the war against human dignity and human rights.
Return to Big Brother Loves You...
