# Chapter 10.3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/mindcontrol/Chapter10.3.htm

While most men would have been thinking
about themselves in self-pity Jesus was still thinking of others. He
said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. And to John, Behold your
mother. To paraphrase, Take care of my mother. Later he said, Forgive
them for they know not what they do. (See the Gospel of John) Jesus
even brought someone to the Lord while he hung on the cross. He was
evangelizing. Dont so many Christians look for the ideal situation to
lead people to the Lord, yet Christ did it under the worst of
conditions. Self-focus, selfishness and pride are closely related. It is
hard to point out where one begins and the other ends. The Spirit of the
AntiChrist wants to draw others to its position of pride. So it inflicts
pain and suffering, like it did to Job to draw the attention of the
person off of Yahweh God and ones fellowman and onto oneself. All the
commandments hang on us loving Yahweh God will all our heart, soul, and
mind, and loving our neighbor as ourselves, but the AntiChrist Spirit
gets our focus off of Yahweh and others and onto ourselves. Bitterness
may develop in us. Bitterness grieves the Holy Spirit.
Bitterness will
seat itself in our mind, and like a transponder will emit bitterness. A
lack of peace and joy results. The Spirit of the AntiChrist has
sidetracked the whole maturing process. As a child grows into an adult
it learns to shift its focus from itself to others. Can we go in and
focus on our own problems and solve them? If part of the problem is
self-focus, then the answer is no. The answer lies in focusing on the
Holy Spirit. Living and walking in the Spirit of Christ is the health we
seek. (GAL 5:16; JN 15:1-11) Does it work? Yes. The authors know of many
cases, where all kinds of individuals solved all kinds of problems by
receiving the Holy Spirit into their lives. They see the supernatural
cleansing that happens, but many times they dont understand the
principle behind what they just experienced. When some of their problems
persist, do they turn again to focus on the Holy Spirit? Often they
focus on themselves, self-pity, bitterness, etc. Counseling today often
takes this approach. It is fine to identify the problem, but then
following that- the solution is not to focus on the problem but to get
out of the path of death.
The process of healing
Healing may be a process, not an event. We
break an arm in a second, it takes many months to heal. We break our
capacity to love God and our fellowman, but we expect an instant cure.
Anyone who has met the Spirit of the AntiChrist needs to learn how to
love again. Love is an action word. One learns to hammer nails by
hammering nails. One learns to type by typing. One learns to love by
loving. The survivor who has been controlled by the Spirit of the
AntiChrist may need to get a teacher of love, a Loving teacher
so-to-speak.
PART J - THE USE OF ANGEL ALTERS
Many Illuminati models had angels or
spirit guides created that could provide divine messages to the
Monarch slave. The Illuminati/Intelligence agencies have been highly
successful with controlling people via their religious beliefs by
implanting alters who are seen by a Monarch slave as being a messenger
from God or the God(s). For someone like, Loretta Lynn, they use spirits
of Indians. Another example of this, is someone having 3 Black Angels.
The concept is the same though. This works in closely with having
demonic guides.
PART K - SCRIPTURES IN PROGRAMMING
An ex-Programmer states that the Illuminati
Mind-Control intentionally used verses from every book of the Bible. The
Programmers also intentionally used everything Jesus said in one
distorted way or another in the programming. A person can pick up a
Bible with Jesus words in red, and get a quick idea of one area of the
Bible which was heavily misused. The programmers love to reframe (twist)
parables. Billy Graham, who is a Monarch handler, is very adept at
weaving in programming language in with biblical messages. For instance,
as this book was being finished, in his 1995 televised Christmas
message, given in front of a fireplace with 13 candles lit behind him,
he said, Come home so I can give you a new heart.
A little later he
activated the Plowshares programming, and a little later he said, from
the cradle to the cross to the ground, which is a phrase any deeper
cult alter would have an entirely different meaning for than the person
on the street. Readers, who read chapter 5, will remember what was
written about Billy Graham. When Billy Graham was in Portland, his
ministry somehow got the addresses and phone numbers to all the Monarch
survivors in the area, who he invited to a personal meeting with him.
While he had his mind-control survivors gathered, he talked to them and
set off their programming with their personal codes. This was observed
by several witnesses. His ministry also sends codes via their messages
flashed across the bottom of the T.V. screen.
The reader needs to bear
in mind that bloody Satanic holidays occur around Christian holy days.
The Winter Solstice occurs around Christmas. Every Christmas, the
Illuminati covens around the world build mangers with children which the
sacrifice. This is worked in to enhance the programming they are doing
with their children. Around Easter time, the Illuminati do Death, burial
and resurrection ceremonies (traumas). Nothing sacred to Christianity
gets overlooked. The method that it is mocked depends on who is in
control of that regions ceremonies. The idea of using Scriptures for
programming accomplishes several things:
a. therapists are usually secular and
unfamiliar with the Bible. This prevents exposure of the programming
cues and triggers and fronts.
b. ministers are usually unable to believe
in psychology and mind-control programming and so their Bible knowledge
is not of any therapeutic benefit because they are ignorant of Satans
devices. Some Christian ministers are putting out advice that Multiples
need to be helped by simply telling the person to quit using
multiplicity as a way to cop out of responsibility. First, there is no
person who is using multiplicity as a cop out--the personality of the
person has been shattered--and no one person represents the entire mind.
Second, the person is not in control of their mind to stop what is
happening. They are under total mind control.
c. the last place people would look for
understanding Satanic programming is in the Bible.
d. when programmed multiples go to church,
they can be used, and programmed by using Christian terms. There are
Christian churches in Washington, Arkansas, Tennessee, and California
and many other places which are 100% cult mind-control operations, such
as the Lords Chapel.
e. When a programmed multiple tries to set
themselves free by taking in spiritual knowledge of God, they find that
the Bible is a programming trigger, that sets off programming or brings
up some alter. Reading the book of 1 John might bring up the
Illuminatis alter named Jesus.
f. The cult which is doing the programming
by making a mockery of God, can build their egos and their pride. It may
allow them to feel they are more powerful than God Almighty.
g. The victim can be told that God is
telling them to do something. And who sets himself up as God? --the
cult programmer.
There isnt anything in the Bible that cant
conceivably be misused, but some of the Scriptures and their programming
misuse are listed below. Scriptures that lend themselves to
double-binds, to obedience or cover stories that seem to justify the
programmer and the programming are used. Names of Queens and Kings in
the Bible can be used for alter names. The men who wrote under
inspiration, knew that scriptures could be misused, in 2 Cor 4: 1-2 Paul
writes about himself, Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we
have received mercy, we faint not; but have renounced the hidden things
of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God
deceitfully... Clearly, mishandling the word of God deceitfully is an
ancient art.
GENESIS
-
Genesis Creation Story--cover story for the creation of parts of a
slaves System
-
Tree of Life--used to create an internal Cabalistic Tree of Life for
alter magic
-
Adam & Eve--code words
-
Garden of Eden--part of the System, usually the early pure part that
needs to be guarded by angels(demons)
-
Angels--alters or demons placed into a System. Angles could be a method
by which the abuser sends messages to the person, thus giving divine
credibility to the programmers message. Angel names can represent
alters and demons placed into a person.
-
Sodom & Gomorrah--a type of suicide program
-
Genesis 22:17-18, That in blessing I will bless thee, [the programmer
as God is going to bless the victim with torture] and in multiplying I
will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which
is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his
enemies; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed
[all the areas of the system]; because thou hast obeyed my voice. [the
programmers voice]
-
Melchizedek -a type of occult order or rank Genesis 38--pledge of a
signet, bracelet & staff--trigger cues to open up a System to obey.
Joseph & Esaus birthright--Satanic birthrights emphasized as if
sanctioned by Gods word.
EXODUS
-
The 12 (actually 13 with Manassah and Ephraim) Tribes of Israel can be
used for the code names of alters and sections of alters.
-
House of Israel--code name for section/structure of a system
-
Plagues of Egypt--Program to terrorize a slave.
-
Oaths and Covenants--their existence in the Bible is used to emphasize
the validity to Satanic oaths and covenants. The curses that God says
will happen if disobedience takes place are used by the Handlers to
instill fear into the victim, that if he doesnt comply, Gods curses
will fall on them. The Catholic/Jesuit programming relies heavily upon
the Bible. The Bible verse ECL. 5:4 When you make a vow to God,
do not delay to pay it...It is better not to vow than to vow and not
pay, is used by these Satanic programmers to hold their victims under
vows made under duress, hypnosis, or deception. (DT 23:2 1 also
emphasizes keeping your vows.) These Satanic Mind-controlled slave
handlers do not tell their slaves that Numbers 30 states that many vows,
such as the vows of children are null and void. The first fruits of
things belong to the real God of the Bible and cant be vowed away. The
Satanic groups like to take the first male child in mockery of what
belongs to God. Evil vows, vows made under duress (just like contracts
made under duress) are null and void. But the Handlers never tell their
slaves these finer points of the law. Instead, they use the Bible to
justify their own goals.
-
I AM [one of the names of Yahweh]--used as a programming cue or name
-
EX 15 - I am the Lord that healeth thee. The programmer can apply this
to himself as he helps rescue the victim from a manufactured
life-threatening crisis.
-
Ten Commandments with LEV 20--used to belittle the victim to show him
that he is rejected of God.
-
When the Programmer sets himself up as God, he can misapply all the
verses calling on people to serve God such as DT 4:29 Seek the Lord thy
God, thus thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and
with all thy soul. See DT 8:18 also DT 11:13, love the Lord your God,
and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. Of course
many of the alters have been stripped of their hearts during programming
and given a heart of stone. They do not have a real heart to serve God,
but they can serve their master with their heart of stone.
OT HISTORICAL BOOKS--1 KG chapters
16-2 1, The story of Ahab, Jezebel, and
Elijah. The Programmers play themselves in the role of Jehu coming to
protect what is his. The only admirable thing for Jezebel to do, is to
put her make-up on and prepare herself to die. This story is used to
make a woman slave think that the only admirable thing to do is to
prepare to die like Jezebel. The Vineyard of Naboth is also used as a
programming theme. The show Mysteries of the Bible is an example of how
the Bible and television can work together to control a person. This
show had an episode about Jezebel, Ahab and Jehu.
It must be remembered
that Dr. Greens internal alter in some victims is called Jehu, and that
another programmer has taken the identity of Ahab and that one of the
deep cats is the Grande Dame programmer represented by Jezebel. The
effect of the show on one Monarch System was this: Jehu has the power
over the gates and to bring judgment upon Ahab and Jezebel. Jezebel in
the show Mysteries of the Bible is praised because when she knew she was
going to die she got her makeup on and she got herself ready for Jehu
and allowed herself to be killed. The System understood the show to mean
in paraphrase:
this is a threat, you are to get yourself
ready for Jehu or whoever and comply.
PROPHETS
-
EZ (Ezekiel) 1:15-17 and the rest of
the chapter. This whole chapter is used to build the internal circle
within circles of interconnecting worlds of the alter system.
-
Jeremiah 18:3--When the child is 3 or 4, a utility program called the
Potter Wheel is placed in so that the Programmer can work with an entire
section of alters if he so desires. When an alter(s) go up on the wheel,
they are available to be worked on. They will be asked to stand in file
according to rank and serial no.
-
EZ 37-The story of the Valley of Dry bones is used as a way of
reactivating dead robots--or dead robotic clones within a Monarch
system.
-
JER (Jeremiah) 47:3--in this verse horses show up when a boundary was
crossed. This is used to put in protective programming.
-
Nahum 3:2--the sword = staff. The entire 3rd chapter of Nahum is used to
make slaves feel that God has rejected them. They have no heart, because
of their evilness.
-
DANIEL. Daniel 10--the Beast with 10 toes (used for programming in the
Beast computer)
GOSPELS
-
MT 5:13 Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his
savior wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing,
but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men. This is used to
justify punishment of the slave.
-
MT 6:22-23 The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is
good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad,
your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is
in you is darkness, how great is that darkness! These words are used
with a mean programming trick where disobedient alters are pulled up,
locked into placed, placed mentally within crystal chandeliers and then
the sexual organs, mouth, and side of the brain are shocked in sequence.
The light does a severe shattering to all the alters which experience
the shocks. This shatters the disobedient alters and they are replaced
with others.
-
MK 3:24-25, And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom
cannot stand. And if a house be divided against itself, that house
cannot stand. Used to help justify backup programming that will not
allow disobedience. The slaves front alters are told to go along with
the rest of the Systems desires, and if not, then the house (body) will
fall (commit suicide). This type of scriptural programming is used in a
demonic way to keep the victim from straying from the script of the
mind-control.
-
MK 4:6 But when the sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no
root, it withered away. This is used to make sure the roots of the
programming are not uprooted.
-
MK 4:28-32, And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of
God?...It is like a grain of mustard seed. ..But when it is sown it
groweth up and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great
branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of
it. In the programming, a tree is programmed mentally into the victims
entire body. This tree carries the programs, and the birds nest in it.
This scripture is used for the imagery of part of that programming.
-
MK
5--This entire chapter deals with the story about Legion (which is a
large number of demonic spirits). The story is also found in MT 8:33.
Legion is placed into the person to guard the All-Seeing-Eye.
-
LK 1:46-52, When a person is traumatized and the Master is allowed to
save the victim, he can present himself as Savior and will use this
scripture to buttress his authority.
-
LK 11:9-10, And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek,
and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one
that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that
knocketh it shall be opened. This is used to reinforce the knocking
triggers that open up a system. MT 7:8 is almost identical to this
scripture.
-
JN 15:4, As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it
abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. This is used
to force the slave to stay within the programming script, so that the
fruit (the programs) will not be damaged. The slave has been given lots
of alters and demons whose only assignment is to protect that
fruit-bearing (the program-bearing) capability of the System. This
chapter continues, If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye
shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you....If you keep my
commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Fathers
commandments, and abide in his love. JN 15:7,10 In other words, the
Master is telling the slave, if you do what I command, you remain in my
love, but I will pull my love away if you dont comply.
-
ACTS 17:28, For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as
certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his
offspring. The slave is bonded totally with their master. His existence
is their existence.
PAULS WRITINGS
-
ROM 1:7, And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or
the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. The slave is
to depend upon the Master called God for all this.
-
ROM 1:18, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all
unGodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in
unrighteousness. Used by the Programmer/handler to justify their
wrathful abuse.
-
ROM 6:16, Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to
obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or
of obedience unto righteousness. This scripture is a good one to use
with ROM 13:1 to make the slave think that obedience to the Masters
authority is righteousness.
-
ROM 7:22, For I delight in the law of after the inward man. God is
Programmer, and the slave is to delight in programmers laws.
-
ROM 9:20-22, Nay but, 0 man, who art thou that repliest against God?
Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me
thus? Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make
one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour? What if God,
willing to show his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with
much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction. The
programmers teach the alters that the Programmers are the Potter and the
alters and their minds are the clay. What right does the clay have to
question the Potter. This is a powerful verse used to insure compliance
and acceptance of the programming.
-
ROM 13:1, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there
is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. There
is the perfect scripture to be misused to prove to the slave that their
master has to be God or at least ordained by God. Who has power? where
does power and authority come from? God. This is a favorite verse within
the Catholic realms to demand loyalty to authority. To defy their
authority is to defy God. It is the perfect double-bind for the slave.
-
1 COR 3:16, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, him
shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.
The slave has a temple built into their System and they are told that
their master is God. If they defile that temple (by touching the
programming)--their master will destroy them.
-
1 COR 11:27, Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this
cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of
the Lord. Actual blood and an actual human body are consumed. The
person is told they must be worthy of this or else they are guilty.
-
2 COR 1:22 God; who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the
Spirit in our hearts. Can be applied to the Programmer, who is God.
-
2 PTR 2:22--Slaves are cursed with the verse and as dogs told to return
to their own vomit. During the tortures of eating foul things, the slave
doesnt want to vomit--because it is a standard practice to make slaves
eat their own vomit.
-
REVELATION (OR APOCALYPSE)--The White Stones of REV. 2:17--The deeper
alters go through a ceremony where the white stone is taken and a black
stone with their name is given.
-
REV. 6-8. The 7 seals are used for Armageddon Suicide programming.
First, the white, second the fiery red, third the black seal, and the
fourth is pale, it is death & hades, fifth, is blood and beheading,
sixth, is earthquakes internally, and the seventh is golden which is
silence.
-
RV 21--The description of heaven is used to build internal structures
and the stones used in heaven are used for access points. The street of
the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. RV 21:21 lends itself
to Wizard of Oz Yellow Brick Road programming. The words Alpha and
Omega are programming triggers. The trumpets and seals of Revelation
and the horses of judgement are all part of the charismatic Monarch Mind
Control.
THE BIBLE IS OPPOSED TO MIND CONTROL &
PROVIDES MANKIND WITH AN ANCIENT WARNING
The prophets of the Bible warned that mind
control would dominate the world in the last days. For instance Paul
wrote, Now the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and
doctrines of devils. 1 TM 4:1,2 ...the God of this world hath blinded
the minds of them which believe not... 2 COR 4:4/ Along this line Jesus
the greatest prophet said, When the Son of Man comes [referring to his
own second coming], will he find the faith on the earth? Lk 18:8 Paul
warns Let no man deceived you by any means: for that day shall not
come, except there come a falling away first [from the truth]. 2 THES
2:3,4
He tells us that in the last days people will not endure sound
doctrine which means sound teachings. The prophet John warn that the
love of the truth was all that would protect people in the end times
from the mass deceptions coming. It is this mass mind control and
individual mind control which allows the satanic New World Order to
carry out a world-wide satanic conspiracy right under the noses of the
worlds citizenry without the majority of people even being alarmed!
...The whole world lies in the control of the evil one. 1 JN 5:19
Part L - THETA PROGRAMMING
Theta Programming got its name just as the
Alpha, Beta, and Delta Programming in part from the four types of EEG
brain waves. Theta waves are frequent in children. The 4 types of waves
are rated according to their wave frequencies which are delta- 1-3
cycles/sec; theta 4 to 7 cycles/sec; alpha 8 to 13 cycles/sec; and beta
13 + cycles per second. Psychic warfare became a branch of the Monarch
Programming. This is the Theta Programming. It is the marriage of occult
practices with state of the art science. The idea to be able to copy
what Elisha did to the King of Syria (2 KG 6:11-12) when he
telepathically spied on the enemy, discovered their plans, and thereby
ruined their chances of success. Today this has been called ESPionage,
and the U.S. Armys term is psychotronics. Of course, the CIAs
position is that they couldnt find anything that worked, but that is
simply not true, because the co-authors know of many Theta alters and
Theta model systems which have Theta programming which is successful.
Black magicians have been honing their skills on how to deflect magical
attacks for centuries. Are their efforts superstition and empty
nonsense, or do they really have efficacy? The Illuminati and Hitler
believed in black magic. And in recent times, the other groups involved
in trauma-based mind-control have also looked into magic based psychic
warfare. For those readers who skipped the split-brain programming
section, you may want to read that section to find out how the
Illuminati create alters via split-brain programming who are very
intuitive and capable of interacting in higher demonic spheres such as
the occult planes of the magical Watchtowers. Some of the groups who did
research for the Monarchs Theta Programming are:
-
AiResearch (Al can stand for artificial intelligence)
-
Manufacturing Co., Torrance, CA (such as psychic warfare & ESP)
-
Biological Dept. of Air Force Research, Baltimore, MD (telepathy)
-
Bell Telephone, Boston, MS (telepathy)
-
Defense Intelligence Agency
-
Duke University Parapsychology Lab, Durham, N.C. (parapsychology, ESP, telepathy)
-
Garret Air Research Corp., El Segundo, CA. (ESP, ELF)
-
General Electric, Schenectady, NY
-
Institute of Noetic Sciences
-
Maimonides Dream Lab in Maimonides Medical Ctr.,
-
Brooklyn, NY
-
NASA (telepathy and many other things)
-
National Institute of Mental Health (funneled money to
telepathy/clairvoyance projects for the CIA)
-
Naval Surface Weapons Center and China Lake
-
Princeton Univ., (ESP, remote perception, telepathy)
-
Stanford Research Institute
-
Veterans Administration Hospitals
Whether the public perceives Psychic warfare
as viable or not, billions of dollars have been spent on it, and
numerous Theta models produced. Twelve psychics in a room together are
said to be able to guide missiles which are fired. There are a number of
excellent books that have come out on the subject. The New Earth
Battalion and the Delta forces of the U.S. Army consist of Monarch
slaves trained in Psychic warfare. (The reader is invited to read for
instance John Whites book Psychic Warfare Fact or Fiction?
(Wellingborough, UK: The Aquarian Press.) Col. John B. Alexander has
been one of the more visible and prominent military men assigned to
training and providing the U.S. Army some elite units of warrior-monks
who can fight with both martial arts and psychic warfare. Of course,
they picked their elite mind-controlled programmed multiples for this.
Col. Alexanders position has director of the Advanced System Concepts
Office in Adelphi, MD. He has worked with Col. Michael Aquino with
Monarch slaves. Upper level martial arts involves the use of the occult.
The Ninji are one of the few groups who openly realize that their
martial art power comes from demonic powers. A half crow/half man spirit
empowers them. The Samurai would kill the Ninji because they used
witchcraft in warfare. But the Samurai and many other martial arts also
use occult powers, which are actually different forms of witchcraft and
demonology, even though they dont recognize it as such. Now American
Monarch slaves in the U.S. First Earth Battalion are taught to throw
energy balls, to move people during hand to hand combat, and do other
things using occult forces. (Yes, these warrior/monk groups are even
getting into blood sacrifices.)
In 1987, The Seattle Times, ran a
front page story on Lt. Col. Jim Channon, who worked with the military
Theta models. The story is entitled The New Armys experiment with New
Age thinking. The article says, So the army tried New Age thinking
- the idea that the world can be changed by changing the way people
think about it, and that the mind has invisible but tangible powers yet
to be tapped. Centers were established at Fort Ord, Calif., and in
Washington, D.C., to explore the intriguing idea that mind power plus
firepower could either win wars or make them unnecessary. From 1980 to
1982 the proposals were expanded at Fort Lewis by Lt. Col. Jim
Channon....
The Army began by finding young officers enthused with new
thought and combining them with skeptical scientists. The two groups
were quickly dubbed the butterflies [an appropriate name for Monarch
mind-control men] and the bees....One result was an Army think tank at
the Pentagon that evaluated the paranormal - unusual psychic or mental
phenomena. It brought in proponents of extra sensory perception (ESP),
mental spoon-bending, people who channeled spirits and even a helmet
designed to unite the left (logical) and right (intuitive) halves of the
brain. Col. John B. Alexander, US Army and part of the Monarch
Programming, wrote for Psychic Warfare, Psychotronics may be
described as the interaction of the mind and matter.
While the concepts
may stretch the imagination of many readers, research in this area has
been underway for years, and the possibility for employment as weaponry
has been explored. To be more specific, there are weapons systems that
operate on the power of the mind and whose lethal capacity has already
been demonstrated. Some of those systems are Monarch systems of the
Theta Model, and many of those in the military are young men of the
Illuminati. Some have been seen at NORAD, in Colorado, which helps
confirm that Theta models are being employed to bring in the
Anti-Christ. (NORAD is a main center for Alex and Janus end-timed
programming.)
I have included three pages of the First
Earth Battalion Manual:
Col. Alexander claims that the ability to
transfer energy from one person to another has been proven, that
emanations of body energy have been proven and picked up by Kirlian
photography, and finally that hypnotic states have been induced
telepathically. The Pentagon and the CIA spent many millions of dollars
on ESP, at least $6 million per year. According to the information that
has leaked, there are psychic humans, but the ability is not a
consistent ability available for all. In the early 1980s it came out
that the Navy had 34 psychics, who they paid $400 a month, to track
Soviet subs. The CIA claimed during the cold war that 200 Russian
experts were working on telepathy.
Many of the Illuminatis Monarch
slaves will speak about learning on the astral plane. One reason it is
difficult to deprogram a slave, is because the deeper parts know how to
astral project, and can carry out the demonology which helps their
master to astral project to them so that the System can be reprogrammed.
Whether the therapist believes in demonology or not, if the therapist
deprograms a client and then finds out that the deeper parts have undone
the work via the astral plane, the therapist should look into how to
manage this problem.
This type of reprogramming rarely needs to occur
because few slaves are ever even partially deprogrammed. One of the most
skilled programmers of Astral Projection is the Programmer B. Bowers. He
is known nationally for this skill. He worked with the famous Manly P.
Hall, who also had a reputation in the Illuminati for Astral Projection.
Astral projection is accomplished by a focused trance where the spirit
by demonic power leaves the body and travels to a particular point.
Grand Masters within the Illuminati can give lessons to students on the
astral plane. Much of their Illuminati occult learning, according to
some Illuminati slaves was done on the astral plane.
We will discuss
several methods on how this is done. The traditional druidic method (the
three stepping stone method) to teach astral projection called spirit
flight is to get 3 stones, a silver one, a gold one and a black one.
Three small stones which are painted would work. The silver represented
the female, and the properties of silver. The gold represented male and
the properties of gold. And the black stone represented midnight and the
unknown and the properties of coal. The silver stone will be placed at a
carefully selected location at some distance from the students house,
and then farther out the gold stone will be placed, and still further
out the black stone. During sleep the Druidic student will practice
seeking out the three stepping stones in order.
Telepathy has been developed by the
Illuminati, but is a closely guarded secret, which their Illuminati
slave alters are trained in. Telepathy is used by Delta teams to
coordinate their activity and to sense if one of them is in danger. Duke
University (which ties back to the
Duke/Reynolds Illuminati bloodlines)
has done massive amounts of research into psychic abilities. Only
certain people have the ability to be a psychic. A certain type of brain
structure is required and the CIA has identified and mapped everyone
with this natural ability in the U.S. However, the Programmers are not
above cheating in creating psychic phenomena within the slaves mind
too.
Since slaves can not be consistently given Theta programming, a
surgical implantation of a sodium/lithium powered high frequency
receiver/transducers coupled with a multi-range discharge capacitor was
placed into the brains of Monarch slaves. This gives the handlers the
ability to signal by remote signals to the victims brain. When the
receiver picks up the signals they electronically stimulate certain
areas of the brain which in turn triggers pre-set programming. Implants
are now being placed in a high percentage of the Monarch slaves.
HOW OUT OF BODY EXPERIENCES (ASTRAL
PROJECTION) ARE DONE
Another method of creating psychic phenomena
with the aid of electronics is astral projection using sound waves. This
method seems to work fairly consistently, although it is possible it
wouldnt work for some people. It was discovered that astral projection
occurs at a point that the body is asleep and the mind is awake. Focus
10 is the state of mind where the body is asleep and the mind is awake,
and with the proper stimuli the mind can wander off into the astral
plane. A few odd people get into the Focus 10 state by themselves, but
it is rare. The brain works off of waves that are less than 16 hz. and
the human ear cant hear anything below 30 hz. so at first it appears
sound waves cant influence the brain. However, if one ear hears 100 hz.
and the other ear hears 104 hz. the brain will hear a ghost beat of 4
hz. 4 hz happens to be a theta/delta frequency on the border of sleep
and waking that can possibly launch an astral trip. Focus 10 is just the
starting point for astral travel. Focus 12, 15, 21 and beyond are
the real trip.
When a person astral projects it is said to change the
BEG pattern to a special pattern called Alphoid. To stimulate someone to
astral project they are induced into sleep, and then just as they lose
consciousness, the mind is jolted awake with some high-frequency beta
signals. The body remains asleep, and the mind is then free from the
body to wander. A hemispheric synchronizer (which was patented in
1975) is used to get both hemispheres working together. Those who
want to read more on this subject might start with
Journeys Out of
the Body by Robert A. Monroe, and Far Journeys, and
D. Scott Rogos
Leaving the Body: A Complete Guide to Astral Projection,
and A Travellers Guide to the Astral Plane by Steve Richards.
OTHER THETA CONTROLS
ELF (Extremely Low Frequency Waves) are
being used to modify people thoughts, implant thoughts, and modify their
emotions, such as make a person angry. ELF weapons are being used on
civilian targets in the U.S. High pitched sounds, and helicopter flying
with P7 mind control equipment are also augmenting the abilities of the
Illuminati/Intelligence Agencies/NWO Network.
TELEPATHY
Essentially all Illuminati slaves have dark
side alters who are taught to be telepathic. There will be differing
opinions as to whether this is real or imagined. IF it is real, and we
will work off of that assumption, then how do the Illuminati do it?
Again there are varying opinions about how it mechanically works--it
appears that it may involve all or part of the following components:
a. The human nervous system is able to
change the gravitational constant in a field surrounding a person. If
the sender had a low field and the receiving party had a higher than
normal field, thoughts can flow from the sender to the receiving party.
b. Somehow altered states of consciousness
influence telepathy. Experiments with two people who simultaneously
hypnotize each other, have found that they enter a shared world in which
they do not have to verbally speak to communicate.
c. Demonic spirits provide insights to those
who are involved in the occult world, as a method to further entrap the
occultist. In other words, the person is cooperating with some other
intelligence. Although the various occult groups have different ways of
explaining telepathy, with Alice Bailey &
Lucis Trust (and spin off
groups like the I AM movement) it is explained that you are an ascended
master. In some groups, telepathy is described as putting on energy and
then controlling that energy. It is seldom in the occult world that
telepathy is linked with demonology. However, those in the occult world
who are skilled in demonology are fully aware that the energy that one
controls to carry out telepathy are demons. In the occult, the
telepathic person must control his demon and then send it to another
person. The first persons demon must then control a kindred spirit in
that person. High ranking demonology, such as in the high ranks of the
Illuminati, would view telepathy as the ability to control demons.
d. An excess of negative ions in the
atmosphere has significantly increased telepathic scores in experiments.
When telepathy occurs, researchers have noted that the parasympathetic
nervous system is activated, & this occurs along with an increased
amount of acetyicholine in the brain.
According to the high levels in
the occult, there are 7 points in the Auric Body. These points are not
on the physical body, but are on what is called the etheric body (or the
bodys astral energy) whose location is approximately in the same
locality as the physical body, except that it extends for a few inches
beyond. The 7 points--(all important demonic portal points) are the top
of the head, the third eye, the throat, the chest-heart area, the solar
plexus, the lower abdomen, and the genital area. (The back of the head
and the spleen make up 2 other points that are not considered as active.
There are 21 minor centers, and 49 focal points found on the human
body.)
Streams of energy called nadis carry the astral energy to where
the senders mind focuses to have the energy taken. The recipient feels
this energy in the solar plexus. Another area that is said to be active
during telepathy is the throat. The throat area on the etheric body is
said to be able to transmit mental thoughts if the sender and receiver
are in harmony and rapport, and are dissociated. Intuitional telepathy
is said to be a function of the third eye and the throat areas working
together to send thoughts. In review, there are several different types
of telepathy, all of which use different points of the etheric body.
Whether therapists believe in telepathy or not, if they work with
Illuminati slaves who feel comfortable to express themselves, then the
therapists will find out that the deeper parts have been trained in mind
reading and telepathy.
An Illuminati Monarch mind-control slave will be
twinned with another Monarch. If these two persons are in the same room
and send forth a glance of love toward each other, they will establish a
connecting energy link that allows them to telepathically communicate.
When two Multiple personality Systems meet, there will be communication
going on dozens of levels as all types of alters seek out their
counterparts and begin to communicate. A drug containing alkaloids
derived from the Ayahuasca vine in Brazil is said to place a person into
the telepathic state. Canada outlawed it in 1947 after a company sold it
publicly in 1946. The U.S. may also have outlawed the drug. Sodium
amytal destroys psychic abilities, and caffeine enhances them. Also a
positive intent by the receiver and the correct emotions of both parties
helps.
KILLING FROM A DISTANCE
Various methods have been attempted by the
military to give their warrior monks the ability to kill by psychic
powers. One reported project in the late 1970s, which appears to have
tried to link technology with some previous occult ideas, was called
Dreamscan. When a person was in his dream state, waves matching brain
waves are to be generated by some type of hardware, in order to cause
the death of the sleeper. Some intelligence assets in AT&T were said to
be involved in this.
IN QUICK REVIEW
The military and the Illuminati are using
telepathy, psychic warfare, astral projection and other occult sciences
with their programmed slaves. The ability to carry out some of these
occult sciences (psychic abilities) can be greatly enhanced by certain
drugs, brain wave patterns, training, and demonology. Non-illuminati
models may not have these abilities built in, but the deeper alters of
Illuminati slaves generally have some alters who are trained in all
these abilities.
THE PHILOSOPHERS STONE
One of the major goals of Alchemy was The
preparation of aurum potabile, liquid gold, a sovereign remedy, because
gold being itself perfect could produce perfection in the human frame.
-quoted from The History of Chemistry as quoted by Manly P. Hall
in his The Secret Teachings of All Ages, p. CLV. Gold has long
been called the metal of wisdom by the Illuminati. The Illuminati are
well aware of the alchemical quest to create the correct type of gold
which will bring enlightment to the world. The Rabbis, who know the
Cabala, have considered the secret of white powdered gold the greatest
secret of all times. Somehow the Egyptian Pharaohs had learned the
secret of how to make white powdered gold which when seen up close is
transparent--like the gold described in the Bible as making up the
streets in heaven. This gold is monotonic (with molecules in a high spin
state), and looks like baking flour. It greatly enhances the pineal
gland, and a similar substance of iridium greatly enhances the pituitary
gland.
Regular yellow gold or gold salts will cause the hair of the
subject to fall out, but white gold is safe to ingest. After ingesting
the white gold for over 9 months, a subject will become extremely
psychic and disease free. The persons body will also glow. Whether the
Illuminati discovered this white gold, and have been using it secretly
when their adepts went into hiding for months of long training, or
whether they were only playing with substitutes we cannot say. (By the
way, some occult groups groom slaves in the craft for 24 hours a day for
a year.) At any rate, in recent years a man named David Hudson, who is
of the Holy Blood line (13th Illuminati Bloodline, of the de Guise
lineage), discovered and patented white gold. He named the
white gold Ormus, which is the occult
name for the Prieure de Sion.
Ormus also
pertains to gnosticism in the ancient world. Ormus is also the Hebrew
words for golden tree, which David finds appropriate since this white
gold is the elixir of life that the sho-bread (& manna) was made from.
This is said to be the reason the Priest glowed when he came out of the
Holy of Holies, after eating the sho-bread. David Hudson, told co-author
Fritz that he was supportive of the cabalistic goal of Adam Kadmon.
Because Hudson knew the cabala very well, it seems likely that he
understands what Adam Kadmon is really all about.
Monarch slaves of the
House of Rothschild have revealed how the Illuminati are able to do what
they call Proxying. This is a Mind-Spirit transfer, done by the twinning
traumas, channeling, telepathic communication, and astral projection so
that all slaves worldwide are being pulled into one single interlinked
Demonic One World Mind. We do not understand how white gold and iridium
help the body become a semi-conductor so that the body is highly
psychic, but it does. We hope to find out more. David Hudson has the
patent (U.S. patent and some international patents) on
white gold.
There
are a number of scientific studies on white gold which verify the power
of white gold on the human body. When the co-author Fritz talked to
David Hudson, he certainly knows the occult world exceptionally well,
besides being skilled in the Cabala. He claims he has nothing to do with
the occult world, and that he stays away from the Illuminati. He says
that he took what was occult and turned it into science. The co-authors
talk with him left many questions. David Hudson has given mankind the
most important secret that has captivated the best minds of the occult
world for centuries, the Quest for the Philosophers Stone.
FURTHER SPIRITUAL BONDAGE SNARES
There are a number of activities which are
snares to entrap people, both Monarch slaves and people in particular,
which are not commonly recognized as such. One has to view them in their
overall context and the consequences of what these activities lead to.
According to Biblical teachings, Satan is trying to develop mans hidden
abilities as well as provide him some extraordinary supernatural power
to encourage mans independence from God, as opposed to mans faith in,
fellowship with and dependence upon his Creator. As man develops these
hidden powers that were part of Adams natural mental, psychic, and
physical abilities, mankind increasingly feels more Godlike. Mans
independence from his Creator Yahweh God, makes him more vulnerable and
more dependent upon Satan. (Cf. verses in Scripture about the fall, 1
Cor. 15:4,5,46, how man is a combination of spirit, body, soul in
1 Thes. 5:23, and how Satans system will do trade in the souls &
the power of the souls of men, REV 18:11-13.)
Due to the corruption of man, God doesnt want to develop these abilities. For instance, atomic
power may make man powerful, but man has not developed spiritually
enough for these abilities to be used in a Godly fashion. Mankind,
according to the Bible, is not ready for these abilities, until mankind
is on a higher spiritual walk with God. Today, mankind lacks the
authority from God to use occult powers. Mankinds flirtation with
occult powers, is similar to the teenage boy who is disobedient to his
fathers guidelines and uses his new sexual powers before he has learned
responsibility and how to use his new power responsibly. We are not to
be ignorant of Satans devices.
Understanding about these powers, just
as the teenage boy understanding about sexuality in a constructive way,
is not the same as the irresponsible use of these powers. One of the
most dangerous, ensnaring spirits, is the Spirit of Gambling. The
Illuminati know that if they can get a man hooked on gambling, that
gambling will bring in every evil spirit with it. When a man is hooked
on gambling he will do anything. Gambling introduces covetousness,
greed and lust. A man with big gambling debts will murder, sell his
children, lie, deceive, steal, etc.
This is not simply the two authors
opinions, but the experience of the Illuminati in working with human
nature. When the Illuminati want to destroy a lineage, they will
purposefully try to get a man or woman in that lineage hooked on
gambling. That will begin a cycle of evil spirits being passed down for
generations. In order, to introduce the gambling spirit into society on
a mass scale, they are working off of several traumas. The rejection,
abuse, lack of power and lack of respect that the American Indians
received from the White man, has opened the American Indians up to
accepting the lie that opening gambling institutions on their
reservation lands is a good thing.
The American Indian is gaining back
some power and money, but their gambling operations will actually lead
them into further bondage. The state governments are finding it hard to
finance projects, and their manufactured hardship is also opening the
door to state run gambling. Again we see the trauma, and the subsequent
programming lie being done on a mass scale. Once the gambling spirit is
entrenched, it will continue to strengthen its control over people and
society. These things are well-conceived spiritual operations that are
blindsiding Americans because evil spirits are no longer politically
correct to talk about.
Illuminati Monarch slaves, such as a
Mother of
Darkness or Grande Master, are given occult powers. They are also
frequently connected to gambling--they will have alters who like to
gamble. Rather than being activities of power and opportunity, occult
power & gambling are really activities that ensnare people. The symbol
that the Programmers use to symbolize the bondage loops that they
construct is the infinity sign, the same sign that we saw on the front
of Billy Grahams Decision magazine.
