# Committee of 300 - aka Olympians - Targets of The Illuminati and The 
Committee of 300

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_committee300_11.htm

by Dr. John Coleman
from Whale Website
Thanks to the sworn testimony of Guerzoni, Italy and Europe but not the U.S. learned that Kissinger was behind the death of Aldo Moro.
This tragic affair demonstrates the ability of the Committee of 300 to impose its will upon any government without exception.
Secure in his position as a member of the most powerful secret society in the world, and I am not talking about Freemasonry, Kissinger not only terrified Moro, but carried through on his threats to "eliminate" Moro if he did not give up his plan to bring economic and industrial progress to Italy.
In June and July of 1982, the wife of Aldo Moro testified in open court that her husbands murder came about as a result of serious threats against his life, made by what she called "a high ranking United States political figure."
Mrs. Eleanora Moro repeated the precise phrase reportedly used by Kissinger in the sworn testimony of Guerzoni: "Either you stop your political line or you will pay dearly for it." Recalled by the judge, Guerzoni was asked if he could identify the person Mrs. Moro was talking about. Guerzoni replied that it was indeed Henry Kissinger as he had previously intimated. - John Coleman, The Story of The Committee of 300, p.7
Mrs. Eleanora Moro repeated the precise phrase reportedly used by Kissinger in the sworn testimony of Guerzoni:
"Either you stop your political line or you will pay dearly for it."
Recalled by the judge, Guerzoni was asked if he could identify the person Mrs. Moro was talking about. Guerzoni replied that it was indeed Henry Kissinger as he had previously intimated.
- John Coleman, The Story of The Committee of 300, p.7
The Order of the Garter is the secret inner group which is an elite group within the Order of St. John of Jerusalem which is the British part of the Knights of Malta. The Knights of the Garter are the leaders of the Committee of 300.
They are diabolical men.
Lord Peter Carrington, who is a member of the satanic Order of Osiris and other demonic groups is a member of the Order of the Garter.
Lord Palmerston is an example from history of another similar example of a Knight of the Garter who was totally corrupt, pretended to be a Christian, and practiced Satanism. Bloodlines of the Illuminati - DuPonts To bring about depopulation of large cities according to the trial run carried out by the Pol Pot regime in Cambodia.
It is interesting to note that Pol Pots genocidal plans were drawn up in the US by one of the Club of Romes research foundations, and overseen by Thomas Enders, a high-ranking State Department official.
It is also interesting that the committee is currently seeking to reinstate the Pol Pot butchers in Cambodia. (Targets of the Illuminati and the Committee of 300 By Dr. John Coleman.)
The Olympians from WakeUpAmerica Website This committee of 300 is modeled after the British East India Companys Council of 300, founded by the British aristocracy in 1727. Most of its immense wealth arose out of the opium trade with China. This group is responsible for the phony drug wars here in the U.S. These phony drug wars were to get us to give away our constitutional rights. Asset forfeiture is a prime example, where huge assets can be seized without trail and no proof of guilt needed. Also the Committee of 300 long ago decreed that there shall be a smaller-much smaller-and better world, that is, their idea of what constitutes a better world.The myriads of useless eaters consuming scarce natural resources were to be culled. Industrial progress supports population growth. Therefore the command to multiply and subdue the earth found in Genesis had to be subverted. This called for an attack upon Christianity; the slow but sure disintegration of industrial nation states; the destruction of hundreds of millions of people, referred to by the Committee of 300 as "surplus population," and the removal of any leader who dared to stand in the way of the Committees global planning to reach the foregoing objectives. Not that the U.S. government didnt know, but as it was part of the conspiracy, it helped to keep the lid on information rather than let the truth be known. Queen, Elizabeth II, is the head of the Committee of 300. The Committee of 300 looks to social convulsions on a global scale, followed by depressions, as a softening-up technique for bigger things to come, as its principal method of creating masses of people all over the world who will become its "welfare" recipients of the future. The committee appears to base much of its important decisions affecting mankind on the philosophy of Polish aristocrat, Felix Dzerzinski, who regarded mankind as being slightly above the level of cattle.
The Olympians
from WakeUpAmerica Website
This committee of 300 is modeled after the British East India Companys Council of 300, founded by the British aristocracy in 1727.
Most of its immense wealth arose out of the opium trade with China. This group is responsible for the phony drug wars here in the U.S. These phony drug wars were to get us to give away our constitutional rights.
Asset forfeiture is a prime example, where huge assets can be seized without trail and no proof of guilt needed. Also the Committee of 300 long ago decreed that there shall be a smaller-much smaller-and better world, that is, their idea of what constitutes a better world.The myriads of useless eaters consuming scarce natural resources were to be culled. Industrial progress supports population growth. Therefore the command to multiply and subdue the earth found in Genesis had to be subverted.
This called for an attack upon Christianity; the slow but sure disintegration of industrial nation states; the destruction of hundreds of millions of people, referred to by the Committee of 300 as "surplus population," and the removal of any leader who dared to stand in the way of the Committees global planning to reach the foregoing objectives.
Not that the U.S. government didnt know, but as it was part of the conspiracy, it helped to keep the lid on information rather than let the truth be known.
Queen, Elizabeth II, is the head of the Committee of 300. The Committee of 300 looks to social convulsions on a global scale, followed by depressions, as a softening-up technique for bigger things to come, as its principal method of creating masses of people all over the world who will become its "welfare" recipients of the future.
The committee appears to base much of its important decisions affecting mankind on the philosophy of Polish aristocrat, Felix Dzerzinski, who regarded mankind as being slightly above the level of cattle.
As a close friend of British intelligence agent Sydney Reilly (Reilly was actually Dzerzinskis controller during the Bolshevik Revolutions formative years), he often confided in Reilly during his drinking bouts. Dzerzinski was, of course, the beast who ran the Red Terror apparatus. He once told Reilly, while the two were on a drinking binge, that, "Man is of no importance. Look at what happens when you starve him. He begins to eat his dead companions to stay alive. Man is only interested in his own survival. That is all that counts. All the Spinoza stuff is a lot of rubbish."
As a close friend of British intelligence agent Sydney Reilly (Reilly was actually Dzerzinskis controller during the Bolshevik Revolutions formative years), he often confided in Reilly during his drinking bouts.
Dzerzinski was, of course, the beast who ran the Red Terror apparatus.
He once told Reilly, while the two were on a drinking binge, that,
"Man is of no importance. Look at what happens when you starve him. He begins to eat his dead companions to stay alive. Man is only interested in his own survival. That is all that counts. All the Spinoza stuff is a lot of rubbish."
"Man is of no importance. Look at what happens when you starve him. He begins to eat his dead companions to stay alive.
Man is only interested in his own survival. That is all that counts.
All the Spinoza stuff is a lot of rubbish."
Return to The Committee of 300
