# Complete Seminar Notes From House Of Theosophy Seminar Which Reveals 
Plans For Last Stages Of New World Order

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_nwo15.htm

from CuttingEdge Website
Many listeners have asked me many questions about the final stages of world events leading up to the final establishment of the New World Order and its Divine Man, The Christ! [Biblical Antichrist] This seminar, given to Members Only, reveals answers to all these questions. We also learn that the occult side is also awaiting the Rapture of Believers and gives the approximate timing of it, and we also learn that the New World Order Plan gives the top leadership of the New Religion of The Christ to the Roman Catholic Pope!
First, we need to provide a little background to you about this seminar. In early 1990, I was being interviewed on a Christian radio station about the coming New World Order. At the conclusion of the hour, I received a phone call at the station, from a man who said he was now a Born Again Christian, but that he had come out of the occult. This gentleman, whom we will call John, said that he was thrilled to hear a Christian leader that had more than a rudimentary idea as to what was going on. Furthermore, John said that he would like to show me much more material I should read to deepen my understanding of the occultic New World Order. John had been a member of the Worldwide Church of God or Children of God, plus the House of Theosophy. I decided to meet John to ascertain whether he was real or fake, and whether he could be trusted. After our first meeting, John took me to the largest New Age bookstore I had ever seen, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, not far from the Harvard University campus and COOP. John showed me many books that he recommended, and the sequence in which I should read them. I bought the first book then, and have been reading ever since. God used these occult books to really broaden my understanding of the New World Order Plan. I could not believe the difference it made when I went to the actual source books themselves, rather than relying upon excerpts of these books from Christian authors. I discovered, also, that while Christian authors were correct in what they were saying, there was so much more that they were not saying! My horizons of understanding were dramatically widened. Over a year passed, and John and I became close friends and he my confidant. Much of the material you read is the result of his input as to what books I should be reading. Several months ago, I received the greatest compliment to my occult understanding, from a "practicing National Socialist" as he identified himself. Of course, this label means that this person was a practicing Nazi, and it was clear from his email that he was very deep into the practice of the occult. This Nazi told me that I had certainly been "reading the right material", and he warned me not to try to use my knowledge of the occult to identify Antichrist!! He warned me that such an attempt would probably result in my untimely death! I took this email as a real compliment, and then I realized that it was really a compliment of John!! But, now back to my story. In early August, 1991, John called to tell me that the New England Director of the House of Theosophy, Bill Lambert, was holding a seminar at the Boston headquarters. The name of this seminar, "POSSIBLE AND PROBABLE EVENTS IN THE FUTURE" really piqued my interest!! John said that Bill Lambert was one of the major players in the New World Order Planning, because the House of Theosophy has always been such a major player since Madame Blavatsky had founded it in 1875. John said that Lambert still considered him a member, so he could get in, with me as his guest. John asked me to keep my identity of Christian a secret, and just listen and take notes. The revelations were astounding, not so much for their actual content, but because their plans fulfilled Bible prophecy, and much of what he revealed showed that the Time of the End was truly upon us. Lambert revealed many points, a few of which bear mentioning:
1) Lambert revealed the circumstances under which the New World Order Religion was to be established, finally drawing all the worlds existing religions into one. He further revealed who was the top leader chosen to lead this global religious behemoth. Of course, this leader would automatically be the False Prophet, of which Revelation 13 tells us much. To my knowledge, this represented the first time anyone had revealed who the False Prophet was planned to be. 2) Lambert revealed that the occult leadership of the world was awaiting the event which the Christian Church calls the Rapture. 3) Lambert reveals the importance of the appearance of Antichrist, and some of the signs and wonders which will precede his appearing. 4) Lambert revealed that much knowledge in the past had been given to occult men throughout the ages -- a fact I had learned from other sources -- but that, toward the end of this Century, another major discovery in Electricity would be revealed. This discovery would prepare mankind to enter the Age of the Christ, and his Millennial Reign.
1) Lambert revealed the circumstances under which the New World Order Religion was to be established, finally drawing all the worlds existing religions into one. He further revealed who was the top leader chosen to lead this global religious behemoth. Of course, this leader would automatically be the False Prophet, of which Revelation 13 tells us much. To my knowledge, this represented the first time anyone had revealed who the False Prophet was planned to be.
2) Lambert revealed that the occult leadership of the world was awaiting the event which the Christian Church calls the Rapture.
3) Lambert reveals the importance of the appearance of Antichrist, and some of the signs and wonders which will precede his appearing.
4) Lambert revealed that much knowledge in the past had been given to occult men throughout the ages -- a fact I had learned from other sources -- but that, toward the end of this Century, another major discovery in Electricity would be revealed. This discovery would prepare mankind to enter the Age of the Christ, and his Millennial Reign.
Remember, these are my notes; therefore, all specific textual emphases, and all underlining, and all placement of notes within boxes, and all notes in capitals, is my doing. I am simply trying to dry pertinent, key facts more clearly to your attention. I want to tell you, that I was very glad that my mastery of college shorthand had not left me, even though I have been out of college for 26 years at the time of this seminar. Lamberts actual words will be enclosed in quotation marks ( " ). I also admit that, at times, the revelations which Lambert had just made so excited me, because of the Biblical and End Time Revelations, that I found it hard to keep writing at the next sequence of events he was outlining. Remember, Lambert is revealing details of a human plan, created in cooperation with supernatural Guiding Spirits to establish the New World Order. They have no idea that their Plan simply and accurately fulfills Bible prophecy. And, now, my notes on this most revealing seminar.
POSSIBLE AND PROBABLE
EVENTS IN THE FUTURE SEMINAR -- BY BILL LAMBERT DIRECTOR -- NEW ENGLAND DISTRICT THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
August 18 1991
NOTES ON LAMBERTS SEMINAR
I. "Prophecy -- Self-fulfilling nature of: "What a person thinks, he creates. Occult law states that energy follows thought. Therefore, collective belief in wrong prophecy by millions of people can cause an immense unconscious level of negative feelings that can lead to fulfilling prophecy." "Armageddon is a good case in point. People believe in the Armageddon concept, which is that this present world must be destroyed before the new can be created (the new heavens and new earth). Therefore, massive collective belief in this concept leads toward a self-fulfillment of that concept. Belief in Armageddon is intertwined around Israel and the Middle East, and is causing nations toward this region, possibly setting the stage for massive, even nuclear, war." II. "New Jerusalem Covenant Project "Sometime between 1985-2010, the following scenario will unfold, depending only on the right set of circumstances: * Moslem and Jewish areas in Jerusalem will be combined with Christian to create the New Jerusalem Covenant * All religions will convene to celebrate three (3) religious festivals simultaneously: 1. Festival of Goodwill -- normally in May-June 2. Festival of Easter -- normally in April (Celebrates new birth, as exemplified by the Christ -- Jesus Christ to Christians) 3. Festival of Wesak -- normally in March (Celebrates birth of the Buddha) This celebration of these three combined Festivals will create the New World Order Religion and will be the spiritual equivalent to the political United Nations." "When the religious communities of the world are thus merged, political governments to simultaneously hold the following political/business conferences: 1. Planetary Goodwill Congress 2. Planetary Human Resource and Disarmament Congress 3. Planetary Environmental Resource and Space Congress" NOTE: WHILE LAMBERT REFUSED TO IDENTIFY THE LEADER OF THIS SPECIAL "POLITICAL AND BUSINESS CONFERENCE, I THINK IT HIGHLY LIKELY IT WILL BE THE CHRIST. AFTER ALL, THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE WILL BE HEADED BY THE FALSE PROPHET, THE POPE. IT MAKES SENSE THAT THE POLITICAL CONFERENCE WILL BE CHAIRED BY THE ONE PERSON WHO IS OF EQUAL RANK WITH THE POPE, THE CHRIST! "Thus, when the three religious conferences and the three political/business conferences are simultaneously held, a grand merger of all forces will occur world-wide that will move the world in any desired direction." "Then, and only then, will it be possible to build a combination Temple/Church/Mosque in Jerusalem." Bill Lambert refused to say that this combination church building would be built on the Temple Mount, as I directly questioned him. But, note that the specific part of the New World Order Plan, called the New Jerusalem Covenant Project, envisions the establishment of a combination religious Jerusalem -- Islam, Christianity, Judiasm. Bill further stated that "any purely political settlement in the Middle East would not, by itself, bring peace. In other words, a purely political settlement would leave the religious nature of the problem unsolved." "Any permanent solution to the Middle East conflict would also have to see the religious portion of the problem solved. Once this religious problem is solved, then the power and influence of the Orthodox Jews in Israel would permanently decline." NOTE: NEW WORLD ORDER PLANNERS ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE POWER AND INFLUENCE OF THE ORTHODOX JEWS. THIS GROUP IS THE SPECIAL TARGET OF THE ANTICHRISTS DECEPTIONS, AS HE GOES ABOUT TO CONVINCE THEM HE IS THEIR MESSIAH. THEN, WHEN ANTICHRIST BEGINS HIS PERSECUTION, HE WILL GO AFTER THE ORTHODOX JEW THE MOST FEROCIOUSLY. "The impetus toward this type of settlement is made possible only because of a general fear of war. This fear of war must be maintained until the desired political and religious changes have been instituted." NOTE: MATTHEW 24:6 FULFILLED "At the proper moment in history, the Pope will visit the combined Jewish/Christian/Moslem sector of Jerusalem to announce that all religions should be combined into one. This action will then finally break the Middle East logjam." NOTE: AT THIS MOMENT, THE PROPHESIED ONE WORLD RELIGIOUS SYSTEM UNDER THE FALSE PROPHET WILL HAVE BEEN FULFILLED!! III. "Review of the Establishment of the New World Order Religion as espoused by the Alice A. Bailey books * "What is occurring now at such a rapid pace was written by A.A.B. Bailey speaks to the spirit of peace, which is now invading humanity, on page 173 of her book, The Externalization of the Hierarchy: "The fusion of many minds into one directed activity is today of supreme importance... Unity of directed thought and purpose is the guarantee of inevitable and future success. The power of massed thought is omnipotent... The Spirit of Peace is hovering close to humanity, seeking opportunity to make His Presence felt. The Spirit of Peace is not an abstract concept but a potent Individual, wielding forces hitherto unfamiliar to our planet. Great Forces are awaiting the hour when They can function as the Liberators and the Deliverers of mankind. But the door to Their entrance must be opened by humanity itself and it will be opened by a united act of the will, expressed through some formula of words and expressed in sound. It will be brought about by an activity performed simultaneously by all men and women of goodwill and by all the world aspirants and disciples. The door will not open unless the act of invocation is backed by the focused will. The directed determination of the man or the group who is using the suggested formula, prayer, or invocation is essential." NOTE: MINUTES BEFORE THE ANTICHRIST ARISES, SOME SUPERNATURAL SOUND WILL BE HEARD, AND SPIRITUALLY FELT, BY EVERYBODY ON THE PLANET, SIMULTANEOUSLY. AT NO OTHER MOMENT IN WORLD HISTORY WILL SO MANY PEOPLE BE IMPACTED AT ONCE. THIS ACTION IS DESIGNED TO GET EVERYONE LOOKING AROUND AND UPWARD, AS TO WHAT CAUSED THIS SOUND. THEN, WITH EVERYONES ATTENTION AROUSED, IMAGES OF ANTICHRIST WILL APPEAR SIMULTANEOUSLY OVER THE ENTIRE EARTH, SPEAKING TO MANKIND, EACH IN HIS OWN LANGUAGE. THE "SIGNS AND WONDERS" WILL HAVE BEGUN. * "Energies want to flow from the Hierarchy to earth to produce the physical manifestation of the Christ; but, such flow can only occur when humanity raises its collective consciousness to be properly awakened receptors." (Page 617-618, The Externalization of the Hierarchy, paraphrased by Mr. Lambert). At this point, I raised my hand to ask Mr. Lambert, You spoke earlier about the Pope going to Jerusalem; when Lord Maitreya makes his appearance, there will be three types of people: 1. Those whose consciousness has been properly raised so they can readily accept him 2. Those whose consciousness has been raised somewhat but not so high that they can readily and immediately accept him, but they might be able to accept him after further enlightenment 3. Those who will never accept him I continued: What responsibility do the leaders of the worlds religions have toward those members of their flock who are of group number two? Will they step forward to publicly urge group number two people to accept the Christ? Bills answer was that the acceptance of the Christ was completely an individual affair. I then tried again to get Bill to state that one of the leaders of the worlds religion would step forward to play the role of the Biblical False Prophet. I said, Back to the Pope for a moment, Bill. You stated that, at the right moment, the Pope would go to Jerusalem. Surely the Pope is a proper receptor to the Christ At this point, Bill nodded his head affirmatively that the Pope was a proper receptor to the Christ. This is the most direct acknowledgement by a influential person involved in the planning for the appearance of Christ that the current Pope is ready and waiting for the appearance of The Christ. This acknowledgement also points to the Roman Catholic Pope as the False Prophet, because Bill stated, very pointedly, that the preparation for the New World Order religion was being paved by the Ecumenical Movement, which is being spear-headed by the Pope. Bill then explained the fate of those members of Group #3, those whose personal consciousness was not now, nor could ever be, raised sufficiently to accept the Christ. Bill likened them to a person who had spent his entire life in a totally darkened room. If a sudden, intense light were to shine into this room, the persons eyes would not be able to endure the light. The person would try to flee the light and go into another room which was dark. Persons of Group #3 will "elect to leave for another room". [Lamberts exact words] At this point, I raised my hand and asked, How do these people do this, Bill? No one can simply declare his spirit to leave this world. Do these people commit suicide? Bill answered emphatically, "NO". He said, "I do not know how it will happen, but these people will leave this dimension." After much thought, I have concluded that Bill is talking about the Rapture of the Church. He refused to say that these people would be killed, and we know the Bible teaches that Anti-Christ will not begin killing Christians until the mid-point of the Great Tribulation. But, Bill is saying that the timing of the departure of the people of Group #3 is immediately after the appearance of the Christ; and the method of their leaving is mysteriously voluntary. I believe the Guiding Spirits of the New Age leaders have created this story as a means of explaining the world-wide Rapture of the Church. Thus, when the Rapture occurs, people will not credit God and will continue being deceived.
I. "Prophecy -- Self-fulfilling nature of:
"What a person thinks, he creates. Occult law states that energy follows thought. Therefore, collective belief in wrong prophecy by millions of people can cause an immense unconscious level of negative feelings that can lead to fulfilling prophecy." "Armageddon is a good case in point. People believe in the Armageddon concept, which is that this present world must be destroyed before the new can be created (the new heavens and new earth). Therefore, massive collective belief in this concept leads toward a self-fulfillment of that concept. Belief in Armageddon is intertwined around Israel and the Middle East, and is causing nations toward this region, possibly setting the stage for massive, even nuclear, war."
II. "New Jerusalem Covenant Project
"Sometime between 1985-2010, the following scenario will unfold, depending only on the right set of circumstances: * Moslem and Jewish areas in Jerusalem will be combined with Christian to create the New Jerusalem Covenant * All religions will convene to celebrate three (3) religious festivals simultaneously: 1. Festival of Goodwill -- normally in May-June 2. Festival of Easter -- normally in April (Celebrates new birth, as exemplified by the Christ -- Jesus Christ to Christians) 3. Festival of Wesak -- normally in March (Celebrates birth of the Buddha) This celebration of these three combined Festivals will create the New World Order Religion and will be the spiritual equivalent to the political United Nations." "When the religious communities of the world are thus merged, political governments to simultaneously hold the following political/business conferences: 1. Planetary Goodwill Congress 2. Planetary Human Resource and Disarmament Congress 3. Planetary Environmental Resource and Space Congress" NOTE: WHILE LAMBERT REFUSED TO IDENTIFY THE LEADER OF THIS SPECIAL "POLITICAL AND BUSINESS CONFERENCE, I THINK IT HIGHLY LIKELY IT WILL BE THE CHRIST. AFTER ALL, THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE WILL BE HEADED BY THE FALSE PROPHET, THE POPE. IT MAKES SENSE THAT THE POLITICAL CONFERENCE WILL BE CHAIRED BY THE ONE PERSON WHO IS OF EQUAL RANK WITH THE POPE, THE CHRIST! "Thus, when the three religious conferences and the three political/business conferences are simultaneously held, a grand merger of all forces will occur world-wide that will move the world in any desired direction." "Then, and only then, will it be possible to build a combination Temple/Church/Mosque in Jerusalem."
"Sometime between 1985-2010, the following scenario will unfold, depending only on the right set of circumstances:
* Moslem and Jewish areas in Jerusalem will be combined with Christian to create the New Jerusalem Covenant * All religions will convene to celebrate three (3) religious festivals simultaneously: 1. Festival of Goodwill -- normally in May-June 2. Festival of Easter -- normally in April (Celebrates new birth, as exemplified by the Christ -- Jesus Christ to Christians) 3. Festival of Wesak -- normally in March (Celebrates birth of the Buddha)
* Moslem and Jewish areas in Jerusalem will be combined with Christian to create the New Jerusalem Covenant * All religions will convene to celebrate three (3) religious festivals simultaneously:
1. Festival of Goodwill -- normally in May-June 2. Festival of Easter -- normally in April (Celebrates new birth, as exemplified by the Christ -- Jesus Christ to Christians) 3. Festival of Wesak -- normally in March (Celebrates birth of the Buddha)
This celebration of these three combined Festivals will create the New World Order Religion and will be the spiritual equivalent to the political United Nations." "When the religious communities of the world are thus merged, political governments to simultaneously hold the following political/business conferences:
1. Planetary Goodwill Congress 2. Planetary Human Resource and Disarmament Congress 3. Planetary Environmental Resource and Space Congress"
NOTE: WHILE LAMBERT REFUSED TO IDENTIFY THE LEADER OF THIS SPECIAL "POLITICAL AND BUSINESS CONFERENCE, I THINK IT HIGHLY LIKELY IT WILL BE THE CHRIST. AFTER ALL, THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE WILL BE HEADED BY THE FALSE PROPHET, THE POPE. IT MAKES SENSE THAT THE POLITICAL CONFERENCE WILL BE CHAIRED BY THE ONE PERSON WHO IS OF EQUAL RANK WITH THE POPE, THE CHRIST! "Thus, when the three religious conferences and the three political/business conferences are simultaneously held, a grand merger of all forces will occur world-wide that will move the world in any desired direction." "Then, and only then, will it be possible to build a combination Temple/Church/Mosque in Jerusalem."
Bill Lambert refused to say that this combination church building would be built on the Temple Mount, as I directly questioned him. But, note that the specific part of the New World Order Plan, called the New Jerusalem Covenant Project, envisions the establishment of a combination religious Jerusalem -- Islam, Christianity, Judiasm. Bill further stated that "any purely political settlement in the Middle East would not, by itself, bring peace. In other words, a purely political settlement would leave the religious nature of the problem unsolved."
"Any permanent solution to the Middle East conflict would also have to see the religious portion of the problem solved. Once this religious problem is solved, then the power and influence of the Orthodox Jews in Israel would permanently decline." NOTE: NEW WORLD ORDER PLANNERS ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE POWER AND INFLUENCE OF THE ORTHODOX JEWS. THIS GROUP IS THE SPECIAL TARGET OF THE ANTICHRISTS DECEPTIONS, AS HE GOES ABOUT TO CONVINCE THEM HE IS THEIR MESSIAH. THEN, WHEN ANTICHRIST BEGINS HIS PERSECUTION, HE WILL GO AFTER THE ORTHODOX JEW THE MOST FEROCIOUSLY. "The impetus toward this type of settlement is made possible only because of a general fear of war. This fear of war must be maintained until the desired political and religious changes have been instituted." NOTE: MATTHEW 24:6 FULFILLED "At the proper moment in history, the Pope will visit the combined Jewish/Christian/Moslem sector of Jerusalem to announce that all religions should be combined into one. This action will then finally break the Middle East logjam." NOTE: AT THIS MOMENT, THE PROPHESIED ONE WORLD RELIGIOUS SYSTEM UNDER THE FALSE PROPHET WILL HAVE BEEN FULFILLED!!
"Any permanent solution to the Middle East conflict would also have to see the religious portion of the problem solved. Once this religious problem is solved, then the power and influence of the Orthodox Jews in Israel would permanently decline." NOTE: NEW WORLD ORDER PLANNERS ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE POWER AND INFLUENCE OF THE ORTHODOX JEWS. THIS GROUP IS THE SPECIAL TARGET OF THE ANTICHRISTS DECEPTIONS, AS HE GOES ABOUT TO CONVINCE THEM HE IS THEIR MESSIAH. THEN, WHEN ANTICHRIST BEGINS HIS PERSECUTION, HE WILL GO AFTER THE ORTHODOX JEW THE MOST FEROCIOUSLY. "The impetus toward this type of settlement is made possible only because of a general fear of war. This fear of war must be maintained until the desired political and religious changes have been instituted." NOTE: MATTHEW 24:6 FULFILLED
"At the proper moment in history, the Pope will visit the combined Jewish/Christian/Moslem sector of Jerusalem to announce that all religions should be combined into one. This action will then finally break the Middle East logjam." NOTE: AT THIS MOMENT, THE PROPHESIED ONE WORLD RELIGIOUS SYSTEM UNDER THE FALSE PROPHET WILL HAVE BEEN FULFILLED!!
III. "Review of the Establishment of the New World Order Religion as espoused by the Alice A. Bailey books
* "What is occurring now at such a rapid pace was written by A.A.B. Bailey speaks to the spirit of peace, which is now invading humanity, on page 173 of her book, The Externalization of the Hierarchy: "The fusion of many minds into one directed activity is today of supreme importance... Unity of directed thought and purpose is the guarantee of inevitable and future success. The power of massed thought is omnipotent... The Spirit of Peace is hovering close to humanity, seeking opportunity to make His Presence felt. The Spirit of Peace is not an abstract concept but a potent Individual, wielding forces hitherto unfamiliar to our planet. Great Forces are awaiting the hour when They can function as the Liberators and the Deliverers of mankind. But the door to Their entrance must be opened by humanity itself and it will be opened by a united act of the will, expressed through some formula of words and expressed in sound. It will be brought about by an activity performed simultaneously by all men and women of goodwill and by all the world aspirants and disciples. The door will not open unless the act of invocation is backed by the focused will. The directed determination of the man or the group who is using the suggested formula, prayer, or invocation is essential." NOTE: MINUTES BEFORE THE ANTICHRIST ARISES, SOME SUPERNATURAL SOUND WILL BE HEARD, AND SPIRITUALLY FELT, BY EVERYBODY ON THE PLANET, SIMULTANEOUSLY. AT NO OTHER MOMENT IN WORLD HISTORY WILL SO MANY PEOPLE BE IMPACTED AT ONCE. THIS ACTION IS DESIGNED TO GET EVERYONE LOOKING AROUND AND UPWARD, AS TO WHAT CAUSED THIS SOUND. THEN, WITH EVERYONES ATTENTION AROUSED, IMAGES OF ANTICHRIST WILL APPEAR SIMULTANEOUSLY OVER THE ENTIRE EARTH, SPEAKING TO MANKIND, EACH IN HIS OWN LANGUAGE. THE "SIGNS AND WONDERS" WILL HAVE BEGUN. * "Energies want to flow from the Hierarchy to earth to produce the physical manifestation of the Christ; but, such flow can only occur when humanity raises its collective consciousness to be properly awakened receptors." (Page 617-618, The Externalization of the Hierarchy, paraphrased by Mr. Lambert).
* "What is occurring now at such a rapid pace was written by A.A.B. Bailey speaks to the spirit of peace, which is now invading humanity, on page 173 of her book, The Externalization of the Hierarchy:
"The fusion of many minds into one directed activity is today of supreme importance... Unity of directed thought and purpose is the guarantee of inevitable and future success. The power of massed thought is omnipotent... The Spirit of Peace is hovering close to humanity, seeking opportunity to make His Presence felt. The Spirit of Peace is not an abstract concept but a potent Individual, wielding forces hitherto unfamiliar to our planet. Great Forces are awaiting the hour when They can function as the Liberators and the Deliverers of mankind. But the door to Their entrance must be opened by humanity itself and it will be opened by a united act of the will, expressed through some formula of words and expressed in sound. It will be brought about by an activity performed simultaneously by all men and women of goodwill and by all the world aspirants and disciples. The door will not open unless the act of invocation is backed by the focused will. The directed determination of the man or the group who is using the suggested formula, prayer, or invocation is essential."
"The fusion of many minds into one directed activity is today of supreme importance... Unity of directed thought and purpose is the guarantee of inevitable and future success. The power of massed thought is omnipotent... The Spirit of Peace is hovering close to humanity, seeking opportunity to make His Presence felt. The Spirit of Peace is not an abstract concept but a potent Individual, wielding forces hitherto unfamiliar to our planet. Great Forces are awaiting the hour when They can function as the Liberators and the Deliverers of mankind.
But the door to Their entrance must be opened by humanity itself and it will be opened by a united act of the will, expressed through some formula of words and expressed in sound. It will be brought about by an activity performed simultaneously by all men and women of goodwill and by all the world aspirants and disciples. The door will not open unless the act of invocation is backed by the focused will. The directed determination of the man or the group who is using the suggested formula, prayer, or invocation is essential."
NOTE: MINUTES BEFORE THE ANTICHRIST ARISES, SOME SUPERNATURAL SOUND WILL BE HEARD, AND SPIRITUALLY FELT, BY EVERYBODY ON THE PLANET, SIMULTANEOUSLY. AT NO OTHER MOMENT IN WORLD HISTORY WILL SO MANY PEOPLE BE IMPACTED AT ONCE. THIS ACTION IS DESIGNED TO GET EVERYONE LOOKING AROUND AND UPWARD, AS TO WHAT CAUSED THIS SOUND. THEN, WITH EVERYONES ATTENTION AROUSED, IMAGES OF ANTICHRIST WILL APPEAR SIMULTANEOUSLY OVER THE ENTIRE EARTH, SPEAKING TO MANKIND, EACH IN HIS OWN LANGUAGE. THE "SIGNS AND WONDERS" WILL HAVE BEGUN. * "Energies want to flow from the Hierarchy to earth to produce the physical manifestation of the Christ; but, such flow can only occur when humanity raises its collective consciousness to be properly awakened receptors."
(Page 617-618, The Externalization of the Hierarchy, paraphrased by Mr. Lambert).
At this point, I raised my hand to ask Mr. Lambert, You spoke earlier about the Pope going to Jerusalem; when Lord Maitreya makes his appearance, there will be three types of people:
1. Those whose consciousness has been properly raised so they can readily accept him 2. Those whose consciousness has been raised somewhat but not so high that they can readily and immediately accept him, but they might be able to accept him after further enlightenment 3. Those who will never accept him
I continued:
What responsibility do the leaders of the worlds religions have toward those members of their flock who are of group number two? Will they step forward to publicly urge group number two people to accept the Christ?
Bills answer was that the acceptance of the Christ was completely an individual affair. I then tried again to get Bill to state that one of the leaders of the worlds religion would step forward to play the role of the Biblical False Prophet. I said,
Back to the Pope for a moment, Bill. You stated that, at the right moment, the Pope would go to Jerusalem. Surely the Pope is a proper receptor to the Christ
At this point, Bill nodded his head affirmatively that the Pope was a proper receptor to the Christ. This is the most direct acknowledgement by a influential person involved in the planning for the appearance of Christ that the current Pope is ready and waiting for the appearance of The Christ. This acknowledgement also points to the Roman Catholic Pope as the False Prophet, because Bill stated, very pointedly, that the preparation for the New World Order religion was being paved by the Ecumenical Movement, which is being spear-headed by the Pope. Bill then explained the fate of those members of Group #3, those whose personal consciousness was not now, nor could ever be, raised sufficiently to accept the Christ. Bill likened them to a person who had spent his entire life in a totally darkened room. If a sudden, intense light were to shine into this room, the persons eyes would not be able to endure the light. The person would try to flee the light and go into another room which was dark. Persons of Group #3 will "elect to leave for another room". [Lamberts exact words] At this point, I raised my hand and asked,
How do these people do this, Bill? No one can simply declare his spirit to leave this world. Do these people commit suicide?
Bill answered emphatically,
"NO". He said, "I do not know how it will happen, but these people will leave this dimension."
After much thought, I have concluded that Bill is talking about the Rapture of the Church. He refused to say that these people would be killed, and we know the Bible teaches that Anti-Christ will not begin killing Christians until the mid-point of the Great Tribulation. But, Bill is saying that the timing of the departure of the people of Group #3 is immediately after the appearance of the Christ; and the method of their leaving is mysteriously voluntary. I believe the Guiding Spirits of the New Age leaders have created this story as a means of explaining the world-wide Rapture of the Church. Thus, when the Rapture occurs, people will not credit God and will continue being deceived.
Mr. Lambert continued with his seminar.
D.K. (Djwhal Khul, one of Alice Baileys Guiding Spirits) has revealed that, "when the Christ comes forward, he will establish his throne on earth. However, the door where evil dwells must be kept shut." D.K. identifies this evil as being the "lowest level of human nature where we tap into our primal, base nature." In other words, this evil consists of the members of Group #3, whose consciousness has not and cannot be properly raised so they can be proper receptors of the Christ, i.e., born-again Christians. Quoting from Alice Baileys book, Esoteric Psychology 1, Mr. Lambert revealed the mystery of Healing Dynamics. The working of the energy in the Seven Rays will produce human healing. To facilitate this healing, the Hierarchy has revealed scientific discoveries to mankind (pages 373-374). At this point, I raised my hand to share that certain scientists had claimed they had received the inspiration for their inventions under the influence of a psychic dream. Quoting from my seminar notes, I mentioned Mr. Vogel of IBM, the developer of the Xerox copier, and I pointed out that Thomas Edison was a dedicated Theosophist. Mr. Lambert did not dispute these points, and went on to explain that, "electricity is a major life force. The life-force of electricity is a combination of magnetism, electricity, and an unknown force. The entire universe is a manifestation of electrical power." "Some time at the end of this decade, the Hierarchy is going to reveal a major new secret to human scientists concerning electricity." I was enthralled. In my wildest dreams, I could not have imagined receiving such direct confirmation of the concept that Satan has been intervening directly in the affairs of man during this century to reveal scientific secrets. This explains the sudden explosion of knowledge starting at the beginning of this century (1900). In fact, as Bill continued to talk, I sensed that the New Age worships Science as their God. Being more specific, they worship the Science of Forces as their God, thus directly fulfilling Daniels prophecy, Neither shall he (Anti-Christ) regard the God of his fathers... but in his estate shall he honour the God of Forces. (Daniel 11:37-38, King James).
D.K. (Djwhal Khul, one of Alice Baileys Guiding Spirits) has revealed that,
"when the Christ comes forward, he will establish his throne on earth. However, the door where evil dwells must be kept shut." D.K. identifies this evil as being the "lowest level of human nature where we tap into our primal, base nature."
In other words, this evil consists of the members of Group #3, whose consciousness has not and cannot be properly raised so they can be proper receptors of the Christ, i.e., born-again Christians. Quoting from Alice Baileys book, Esoteric Psychology 1, Mr. Lambert revealed the mystery of Healing Dynamics. The working of the energy in the Seven Rays will produce human healing. To facilitate this healing, the Hierarchy has revealed scientific discoveries to mankind (pages 373-374). At this point, I raised my hand to share that certain scientists had claimed they had received the inspiration for their inventions under the influence of a psychic dream. Quoting from my seminar notes, I mentioned Mr. Vogel of IBM, the developer of the Xerox copier, and I pointed out that Thomas Edison was a dedicated Theosophist. Mr. Lambert did not dispute these points, and went on to explain that,
"electricity is a major life force. The life-force of electricity is a combination of magnetism, electricity, and an unknown force. The entire universe is a manifestation of electrical power." "Some time at the end of this decade, the Hierarchy is going to reveal a major new secret to human scientists concerning electricity."
I was enthralled. In my wildest dreams, I could not have imagined receiving such direct confirmation of the concept that Satan has been intervening directly in the affairs of man during this century to reveal scientific secrets. This explains the sudden explosion of knowledge starting at the beginning of this century (1900). In fact, as Bill continued to talk, I sensed that the New Age worships Science as their God. Being more specific, they worship the Science of Forces as their God, thus directly fulfilling Daniels prophecy,
Neither shall he (Anti-Christ) regard the God of his fathers... but in his estate shall he honour the God of Forces. (Daniel 11:37-38, King James).
Mr. Lambert continued with his seminar:
IV. "A Cashless economy is coming, and will solve all sorts of problems: Crime will disappear Each household will have a computer with which to conduct all purchases. Computers are coming that are small enough to hold in your hand, so that you can conduct small transactions, i.e., paper boy or a teenager who cuts your lawn. Costs of computers are currently falling so that even people on Welfare can afford one." V. "Virtual Reality is becoming a reality. Virtual Reality is defined as mentally creating a reality which is so real that you can literally live within it for a time." This concept is being taught now in the College Music Program. My son is a music major in a Christian college, and he has heard of Virtual Reality, even though the college does not teach it. Virtual Reality will be given tremendous impetus by computer gaming, i.e., Nintendo. A person will be able to slip a helmet on which will place him into an alternate reality as real as factual reality. In fact, discoveries are progressing which will allow this computer game to pick up an individuals brain waves and project the type of reality, visually within the helmet, that the individual is conceiving in his brain!! Does it sound super-natural? It is; it is from Satan.
IV. "A Cashless economy is coming, and will solve all sorts of problems:
Crime will disappear
Each household will have a computer with which to conduct all purchases. Computers are coming that are small enough to hold in your hand, so that you can conduct small transactions, i.e., paper boy or a teenager who cuts your lawn. Costs of computers are currently falling so that even people on Welfare can afford one."
V. "Virtual Reality is becoming a reality.
Virtual Reality is defined as mentally creating a reality which is so real that you can literally live within it for a time." This concept is being taught now in the College Music Program. My son is a music major in a Christian college, and he has heard of Virtual Reality, even though the college does not teach it. Virtual Reality will be given tremendous impetus by computer gaming, i.e., Nintendo.
A person will be able to slip a helmet on which will place him into an alternate reality as real as factual reality. In fact, discoveries are progressing which will allow this computer game to pick up an individuals brain waves and project the type of reality, visually within the helmet, that the individual is conceiving in his brain!! Does it sound super-natural? It is; it is from Satan.
VI. "UFOs and Aliens are part of the New World Order. They are benevolent beings which will aid mankind in attaining the goal of becoming one humanity. They will appear at the proper time to enable mankind to make that Quantum Leap of Collective Consciousness -- when the Anti-Christ appears." VII. "Super-Natural Capabilities Of The Anti-Christ Then, Mr. Lambert revealed that, "when Lord Maitreya appears, he will appear as different beings to different people. * He will appear as a man to a man and as a woman to a woman. * He will appear as a white to a white, as a black to a black, as an Indian to an Indian, etc." It makes no difference whether you are viewing him in person or on Television. Thus, "he will show that he is all things to all people". Another author has also indicated that his image will appear over all nations of the earth simultaneously, and that he will speak to each ethnic group in their own language. We know this is technologically possible with computer images being sent from ground to satellite and back down to earth. There will evidently be a mixing of super-natural phenomena and advanced technology when the staging of the Anti-Christ occurs. Of course, if Satan has deliberately revealed scientific secrets to man, as New Agers claim, we can say that both the super-natural phenomena and scientific technology are the work of Satan. * "Finally, a sound will be heard world-wide which will herald the coming of Maitreya the Christ. Prompted by this sound, people will be aware of his coming on three distinct levels: Spiritual, physical, and emotional. (Refer back to Page 2 to the quoted portion of Alice Baileys book.)" * As to the time-table of Maitreyas appearance, Mr. Lambert would not be specific. However, one of the listeners raised his hand to volunteer the information that he had read that Lord Maitreya was on board the warship at Malta in 1989, and participated in the conference between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev. Mr. Lambert did not deny this and a thrill went through the truly New Age participants at the thought that this could be true. If this is true, the appearance of Maitreya is very close. Thus, the New Age Plan to stage the appearance of Anti-Christ may very well be coinciding with Gods Timetable, just as every Fundamentalist Bible scholar has always maintained! This concludes my notes on this most interesting seminar. I leave it to you to reach conclusions on the significance of these revelations. However, remember two things: 1. Bill Lambert admits he is being guided by his Guiding Spirits who are telling him many things concerning the immediate future. 2. Bill Lambert is a participant in the critically important New Jerusalem Covenant Project. The goal of this project is to create the Plan by which Maitreya can solve the Middle East crisis and use this crisis to stage his appearance in the world.
VI. "UFOs and Aliens are part of the New World Order.
They are benevolent beings which will aid mankind in attaining the goal of becoming one humanity. They will appear at the proper time to enable mankind to make that Quantum Leap of Collective Consciousness -- when the Anti-Christ appears."
VII. "Super-Natural Capabilities Of The Anti-Christ Then, Mr. Lambert revealed that, "when Lord Maitreya appears, he will appear as different beings to different people.
* He will appear as a man to a man and as a woman to a woman. * He will appear as a white to a white, as a black to a black, as an Indian to an Indian, etc."
It makes no difference whether you are viewing him in person or on Television. Thus, "he will show that he is all things to all people". Another author has also indicated that his image will appear over all nations of the earth simultaneously, and that he will speak to each ethnic group in their own language. We know this is technologically possible with computer images being sent from ground to satellite and back down to earth. There will evidently be a mixing of super-natural phenomena and advanced technology when the staging of the Anti-Christ occurs. Of course, if Satan has deliberately revealed scientific secrets to man, as New Agers claim, we can say that both the super-natural phenomena and scientific technology are the work of Satan.
* "Finally, a sound will be heard world-wide which will herald the coming of Maitreya the Christ. Prompted by this sound, people will be aware of his coming on three distinct levels: Spiritual, physical, and emotional. (Refer back to Page 2 to the quoted portion of Alice Baileys book.)" * As to the time-table of Maitreyas appearance, Mr. Lambert would not be specific. However, one of the listeners raised his hand to volunteer the information that he had read that Lord Maitreya was on board the warship at Malta in 1989, and participated in the conference between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev.
Mr. Lambert did not deny this and a thrill went through the truly New Age participants at the thought that this could be true. If this is true, the appearance of Maitreya is very close. Thus, the New Age Plan to stage the appearance of Anti-Christ may very well be coinciding with Gods Timetable, just as every Fundamentalist Bible scholar has always maintained! This concludes my notes on this most interesting seminar. I leave it to you to reach conclusions on the significance of these revelations. However, remember two things:
1. Bill Lambert admits he is being guided by his Guiding Spirits who are telling him many things concerning the immediate future. 2. Bill Lambert is a participant in the critically important New Jerusalem Covenant Project. The goal of this project is to create the Plan by which Maitreya can solve the Middle East crisis and use this crisis to stage his appearance in the world.
I would not be surprised if this group is actually writing the Peace Treaty/Covenant which Maitreya will sign with Israel at the proper time. This would then directly fulfill Daniels prophecy of 9:27.
Return to Blue-Beam Project
Return to New World Order
Return to The Anti-Christ
Return to The Vatican
