# Condon Report, Appendix X: Authors & Editors

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/condonreport/full_report/appndx-x.htm

JOHN B. AHRENS (Research Psychologist) received his B. S. at the University of Wyoming where he assisted Dr. D. Foulkes in research.
ROBERT J. ALLEN (Section VI, Chapter 5) senior research engineer, Radar Aerophysics Group, Stanford Research Institute, specialized in the development of acoustic miss-distance scoring systems for small arms and special radar-data processing unit. He holds the degrees of B.S. EE., B.S., and M.S.
BETH ALLMAN (Assistant Editor) holds a B.A. (University of Colorado) in comparative literature. Prior to her work on this report, she was engaged in personnel work at Thompson-Ramo-Woolridge and as a production assistant for Henry Z. Walck, Publishers.
MARTIN D. ALTSCHULER (Section VI, Chapter 7) is associated with NCAR as research assistant. He holds a Ph.D. (Yale) in astronomy and physics, and since 1965 has been a member of the Department of Astrophysics at the University of Colorado.
FREDERICK AYER II (Section VI, Chapter 9) received his M.S. (New York University) in physics. He has been consultant and research associate at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, and has recently done research on high-energy physics at the University of Colorado.
VICTORIA SIEGFRIED BARKER (Indexer) received her B.S. (Stanford) in library science. She has served as librarian for the University of Colorado, and as chief librarian of the Boulder Laboratories, U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards (1951-1964).
ROY H. BLACKMER, JR. (Section VI, Chapter 4) currently directs a series of projects for improved observation and prediction of weather phenomena for Stanford Research Institute. His M.S. (M.I.T.) is in meteorology.
WILLIAM BLUMEN (Section VI, Chapter 6) is assistant professor of Astro- physics at the University of Colorado. His Ph.D. (M.I.T.) is in physics. He has done research in dynamic meteorology at NCAR.
WILLIAM B. CARSON (Programmer) was mathematics technician with the Institute for Environmental Research, ESSA, and the National Bureau of Standards.
RONALD T. H. COLLIS (Section VI, Chapter 5) manages the Aerophysics Laboratory at Stanford Research Institute. A graduate of the Royal Naval School of Meteorology, he received, his M.S. from Oxford University.
EDWARD U. CONDON (Scientific Director) is professor of Physics and Astrophysics, and is a Fellow of the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics at the University of Colorado. He is former director of the National Bureau of Standards and a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He received his Ph.D. in physics from the University of California and has served faculties of Princeton University, the University of Minnesota, Oberlin College, and Washington University, St. Louis. He has been associate director of research for the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, and director of research for Corning Glass Works. In 1941 he was named to the committee which established the U.S. atomic bomb program. He has also served as scientific advisor to a special Senate atomic energy committee, and to the President's Evaluation Commission for Naval Atomic Bomb Tests (1946). He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science (president, 1953), the American Physical Society (president, 1946), the American Association of Physics Teachers (president, 1964), the Society for Social Responsibility in Science (president, 1968-69), and of scientific organizations in Sweden, France, and Great Britain.
STUART W. COOK (Principal Investigator) is co-director of the University of Colorado Institute of Behavioral Science research program, having recently completed five years as chairman of the Department of Psychology. He is also chairman of the American Psychological Association's committee on research ethical standards. His research has involved the development, modification,
and measurement of attitudes, social behavior, and intergroup relationships. He holds a Ph.D. (Minn.) and is a diplomate in clinical psychology from the American Board of Examiners in Professional Psychology.
ROY CRAIG (Section III, Chapters 1, 3, and 4) was an associate professor and coordinator of Physical Science in the Division of Integrated Studies at the University of Colorado for two years and has also taught at Clarkson College. He has been research assistant at Iowa State University Institute for Atomic Research and at the California Institute of Technology. His Ph.D. (Iowa State) is in physical chemistry.
LOREN W. CROW (Consulting Meteorologist) has served as Special Assistant for Industrial Meteorology, ESSA.
DANIEL S. GILLMOR (Editor) has been a journalist since 1939 as newspaper reporter, magazine editor, and free-lance writer, specializing in the sciences The author of one book, he has served in various capacities on scientific and general publications in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, and France.
CARL D. HEROLD (Section VI, Chapter 5) is Senior Research Engineer in the Systems Evaluation Department of Stanford Research Institute, His B.S. (Case) is in electrical engineering.
WILLIAM K. HARTMANN (Section III, Chapter 2; Section VI, Chapter 2) is assistant professor at the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory. He was named co-winner of the 1964-65 Ninninger Meteorite Award. The previous year he had acted as consultant to North American Aviation for LESA studies (NASA). He was also a member of Geosciences Panel to recommend post-Apollo lunar research. He has made lunar and planetary photoanalyses in Mexico, Hawaii and Arizona volcanic fields. His Ph.D. (Ariz.) is in astronomy.
HARRIET HUNTER (Section V, Chapter 3) was Associate Editor of this report. She was an administrative aide to the director of NCAR and the center's conference manager. She has studied at Michigan State University and the University of Colorado, and is presently an administrative assistant to the Dean of the Graduate School at the latter.
PAUL R. JULIAN (Section VI, Chapter 10) is on the research staff at NCAR and is an affiliate professor. for the University of Chicago. His Ph.D. (Pennsylvania State) is in meteorology. For five years he served on the staff of the High Altitude Observatory in Boulder, Colorado.
VINCENT E. LALLY (Section VI, Chapter 8) is currently employed at NCAR in balloon and instrument experimentation. His M.S. (M.I.T.) is in business and engineering administration.
ALDORA LEE (Section III, Chapter 7) received her Ph.D. (Colorado)in social psychology. She has taught at the University of Colorado and has done research at mental health centers and hospitals in California and Colorado.
NORMAN E. LEVINE (Research Associate) received his Ph.D. from the University of Arizona,where he is currently an assistant engineer in research.
ROBERT J. LOW (Project Coordinator) is special assistant to the Vice-President and Dean of Faculties at the Univeriity of Colorado. He received his B.S.EE (Harvard) and his M.B.A. (Columbia),and has done graduate work at Oxford and the University of Colorado. He conducted curriculum studies for the State of Florida and the American Institute of Biological Sciences. Prior to assuming his duties on the project, he was assistant dean of the University of Colorados Graduate School.
RONALD I. PRESNELL (Research Associate) is on the staff of Stanford Research Institute as Senior Research Engineer in the Radio Physics Laboratory. His M.S. (Stanford) is in engineering.
MARK W. RHINE (Section VI, Chapter 3) is an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Colorado Medical Center, His M.D. is from Harvard.
FRANKLIN E. ROACH (Section III, Chapter 6), a Principal Investigator of the project, is Professor Adjoint in the Astrogeophysics Department of the University of Colorado; he is also consultant to NASA. He has taught at the University of Arizona and has done research at various governmental agencies including the National Bureau of Standards. His B.S. is from the University of Michigan, and his M.S. and Ph.D. (Chicago) is in astrophysics.
SAMUEL ROSENBERG (Seetion V, Chapter 1) is a documentary film producer and director. As a photojournalist he has had articles published in Life and has directed and produced 12 documentary films for television. He has served as a consultant in matters involving the United Nations. He has given two one-man shows of drawings in Washington and New York. A personal memoir is scheduled for publication in 1969 by Prentice-Hall.
GERALD M. ROTHBERG (Research Associate) is associate professor of Physics, Stevens Institute of Technology, His Ph.D. (Columbia) is in physics.
JOSEPH H. RUSH (consultant) received his Ph.D. (Duke) in physics. He has taught at various institutions in Texas and was a physicist for the A-bomb project at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and the High Altitude Observatory in Colorado. He is presently employed at NCAR.
DAVID R. SAUNDERS (Principal Investigator) is professor of psychology at the University of Colorado and assistant director of its Department of Testing and Counseling. He holds a Ph.D. (Ill.) in psychology.
WILLIAM A. SCOTT (Co-principal Investigator) is professor of psychology at the University of Colorado. For eight years he was director of the University's graduate program in personality and social psychology. His Ph.D. is from the University of Michigan.
MARGARET C. SHIPLEY (Indexer) has a B.S. from Scripps College. She is currently writer and editor in the University of Colorado's School of Engineering.
HERBERT J. STRENTZ (Research Associate) is visiting professor of journalism at the University of Kentucky. His M.A. (Syracuse) is in journalism.
GORDON D. THAYER (Section III, Chapter 5) received his B.S. in physics from the University of Colorado and attended the U.S. Army Signal Corps radar school and was assigned to White Sands Proving Grounds for research analysis. He is currently with ESSA. (In the preparation of his chapter Mr. Thayer was assisted by Burgette A. Hart.)
WILLIAM VIEZEE (Section VI, Chapter 4), research meteorologist at the Stanford Research Institute, received his M.S. (California) in meteorology, lie has been engaged in studies related to numerical weather predictions, clearair turbulence, satellite meteorology, and applications of laser radar to atmospheric research.
JAMES E. WADSWORTH (Research Associate) received his B.A. at the University of North Carolina and was research assistant with the Institute of Behavioral Sciences at the University of Colorado.
MICHAEL M. WERTHEIMER (Section VI, Chapter 2) is a professor of experimental psychology at the University of Colorado. His Ph.D. is from Harvard. He has done research in perception, physiological, abnormal and social psychology, and in psychological theory.
