# D e e p B l a c k L i e s .co.uk

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/secretgoldtreaty/secret_treaty_part%204.1.htm

Walter Schellenberg
President Sukarno
James Jesus Angleton
President Nixon
Gold!
Sukarno cert
Click images to enlarge
Allen Dulles, his brother, John Foster, and James Jesus Angleton are central to this story. The Dulles brotherswere at the heart of a conspiracy dedicated to eradicating Communism and shifting the political spectrum of the world far to the right. This was part of a strategy designed to benefit the business interests of an elite group of iron-willed men who sat atop a network of transnational companies in the US, Japan and Europe.
This elite liked what Mussolini and Hitler were trying to do in Europe and were happy to finance both fascists in order to place them in the seats of power in Italy and Germany. These power brokers would later learn that the Austrian Corporal had a mind of his own and would not be content to be a mannequin for larger interests. The result was World War II.
Throughout the Second World War secret discussions took place between various factions in Germany and the US and Great Britain aimed at finding an acceptable formula that would bring peace to Western Europe and result in a coalition of the West that was militarily capable of defeating Stalin and the Soviet Union.
By 1942, with the defeat of the Third Reich in Stalingrad, it became clear to many of the more observant players that Germany would lose the war. As a consequence, secret discussions and peace-feelers increased in intensity. One of those who quickly formed the opinion that Germany would be defeated was Walter Schellenberg, chief of the SS Foreign Intelligence Service.
In spite of the horrendous crimes that the SS was guilty of, it was regarded by one Catholic archbishop as the "most respectable of the Nazi Party organisations." Unarguably the SS was the very elite of the Third Reich and attracted an officer corps composed of the wellto-do, the well-connected and the blue-blooded of Germany. The latter included the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg, Prince Wilhelm of Hesse and the Prince von Hohenzollern -- and in an honorary role, the Prince of Lippe-Biesterfeld, who is better known to the world as Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands.
Most members of this elite inner circle of the SS were against Hitler and were content to engage in an on-going series of secret peace talks with a hard core of extreme right-wing groups in the US and UK aimed at deposing Hitler in favour of Himmler -- who, despite his humble origins, possessed real power and who made the right diplomatic noises about maintaining a relationship with the Vatican. Underlying these peace discussions was a joint understanding that a war should be prosecuted by Germany and the West against Russia to defeat Communism.
The man chosen by Walter Schellenberg to oversee these negotiations was Prince Max von Hohenlohe, who, as early as 1942, approached Sir Samuel Hoare -- a member of a right-leaning British group under Lord Halifax. Getting no results, Schellenberg instructed Hohenlohe to open a channel with the US. In January 1943, Hohenlohe met with Allen Dulles in Geneva.
For the remainder of the war, Dulles maintained intimate connections with the SS despite orders from the President to cease and desist. For Dulles, business came well ahead of loyalty to one's country. The result of these early contacts, as we have earlier seen, was Operation Sunrise and the absorption of large contingents of the SS and Gestapo into the US anti-communist cause.
According to whispers circulating in the black gold market, the Dulles brothers, James Jesus Angleton and others associated with the story of World War II plunder did not object to acquiring a personal share of the loot. How true this rumour is is not known, but Sterling Seagrave in his book The Yamato Dynasty reveals that former US President Herbert Hoover and General Douglas MacArthur each had large gold bullion accounts valued in the tens of millions of dollars.
What the foregoing shows is that there is, and has been for many decades, a conspiracy of silence relating to the actual as opposed to official quantity of mined gold in the world. Words fail to convey the global significance of this purposely concealed disparity. In fact, the difference between official figures and reality represents a gulf so wide and a secret so dark as to be nearly unbelievable. But the facts are now evident.
Speaking openly of this particular aspect of the story is not without some perceived dangers, and I do so with reservations that are tempered only by the knowledge that, in the last analysis, the truth should be told. Although this statement may seem fanciful I can assure readers that others who are also in the know share this concern and I am not alone in taking measures to protect and duplicate my files.
No one who earns a living from the world of gold or who trades or holds the noble metal as an asset including most governments, central banks, the intelligence community, heads of state, narcotics cartels, organised crime clans and, of course, the all powerful gold banks -- wish their market and this secret to be disturbed by reality. For too long these and other forces have perpetrated a myth designed to penalise the many while enriching the few very much a direct consequence of the final dismantling of the Bretton Woods Agreement by the Nazi- and Mafia- associated President, Richard Nixon, in 1971.
Readers of this Dossier will see for themselves from the papers of the late Baron Krupp that are provided in the Appendices that the richest man in the world certainly is not Microsofts Bill Gates, who is a real latecomer so far as the wealth stakes are concerned. The figures shown by Carl Letermeyer, Baron Krupps attorney, reveal that the House of Krupp earned income during the early mid Eighties that, on average, was greater than $2 trillion a year. Whether these prodigious sums belonged entirely to Krupp, or whether, instead, the Krupp Foundation was used to launder huge quantities of loot, remains uncertain. Rumours and whispers point in the latter direction and may point to a conspiracy that has a distasteful hard right-wing smell to it.
We now know that just one Golden Lily 777 treasure site was worth almost $200 billion in 1945 US dollars. We also know that there were dozens of triple seven sites, plus some triple nines and, of course, tens of dozens of smaller troves. In fact, Japans Golden Lily teams stashed plunder in a minimum of 172 burial sites on the Philippines alone.[i]
A reliable estimate is that the value of gold at these 172 sites collectively totalled $100 trillion in 1945 US dollars a figure that simply dwarfs the present day global debt. This sum is so massive as to be virtually incomprehensible -- yet it probably does not include the complete figures, as we shall see.
Others who have investigated this story sensibly avoid mentioning such figures, knowing that the perceptions of the uninformed -- and, perhaps even of experts -- will be that they are preposterousand that this perception may tend to create an undesirable attitude that will discount the rest of their work. There are other fears besides these, too.
Meanwhile, we need note that a very considerable quantity of Japanese plunder was also buried throughout Indonesia and there is evidence to suppose that there were other sites in Korea, too. The Philippines, although the largest site for buried treasure, was by no means the only one.
A feeling for what we are dealing with took place some moths ago between me and a knowledgeable individual in these matters who, for convenience's sake, I will call "Tom." This individual contacted me some months ago seeking to exchange information in the hope of clarifying a number of questions he had regarding a corpus of information he had been made privy to over a number of years. Significantly, he was cognizant of Peter Johnstons story and knew of his arrest and troubles. He also knew about some of the people and firms Johnston was in contact with at the time of his arrest. It seemed clear he had followed the case at the time and remembered it.
Tom told me he had been involved in what he termed international business for the past 25 years, during which time he had become familiar with transactions involving black market gold and other precious metals. He said that this was not his principal business, adding that he found most of the approaches made to him about gold little more than irritations.
Tom went on to reveal that a few years ago he became personally involved with the story of Sukarnos Treasure, and a large cache of gold hidden in the jungles of Indonesia. In the early 1990s, a long-time friend and business partner of his met a Filipino gentleman (whose identity I am aware of), who was a retired lawyer now living in the United States. This gentleman was an intimate of Bung Sukarno, who appointed him the principal trustee of Sukarno's fabled gold hoard -- the so called Revolutionary Fund. This person was also intimately knowledgeable about President Marcos's own dealings in black gold and, as Tom relayed it to me, "he has doc's and significant knowledge re Marcos dealings, deposits in various banks & the relationship and dealings between Marcos & Sukarno."
Tom then added: "For whatever reasons, after the death of Sukarno control over this evidently personal fortune was turned over not to his immediate family heirs, but rather to the safe keeping of a group of individuals called "gurus." These gurus had been instructed by Sukarno, in writing I understand, to contact [the trustee] & to look to him for leadership with regard to how and what when it came to the stashed cache of valuables. The issue of how & why [the trustee] gained what ever authority and control he has over all this stuff that's hidden in the jungles of Indonesia, and also the issue of whether his authority has any larger legitimacy is probably important. But this doesn't belie the fact that apparently he does have at least some significant degree of control over it; i.e. he knows how to get to it, he's the recognized connection to & for the people physically holding it, and he has authority as "mandated trustee" over it in writing from Sukarno (I've seen the document)." Tom continues: "Over the past few years I've also seen and been able to peruse many thousands of pages of apparently original aging bank documents and statements pertaining to the personal assets and fortune, of the late Sukarno. According to the master document I've seen these assets, precious metals & also cash totalled 270 T. U$ in 1964, and are supposedly on deposit with UBS, SBC and various other major world banks. I say supposedly because evidently they are but they aren't; but this is another story."
Tom continues: "Over the past few years I've also seen and been able to peruse many thousands of pages of apparently original aging bank documents and statements pertaining to the personal assets and fortune, of the late Sukarno. According to the master document I've seen these assets, precious metals & also cash totalled 270 T. U$ in 1964, and are supposedly on deposit with UBS, SBC and various other major world banks. I say supposedly because evidently they are but they aren't; but this is another story."
The apparently paradoxical statement that "...they are but they aren't," will be clarified shortly from other sources. Much of this had a very familiar ring to it and I felt it likely that he was discussing many of the same certificates of deposit that Dr. Damanik had access to.
Tom continued his story: "Also about five years ago several Americans I've worked with, known and trusted to the very highest degree for more than twenty-five years now, travelled to Indonesia with [the trustee]. While there they were taken to several repositories, in the jungle mountains of Irian Jaya and some other places in the Indonesian islands, (at each location after several days trekking through the jungles where they were allowed freely and at their leisure to view and inspect all that was there and anything and everything they wanted to see, handle or kick-the-tires of). In these repositories was and still is a very very large volume of valuables - Art objects; Gems; Jewelry; and a extremely large volume of precious metals. To quote my friend, I have never seen anything like this in my life. There was stack upon stack and row upon row, of beautifully made UBS origin precious metal storage boxes, all containing 1KG J. M. Hallmarked Gold or Platinum bars, each bar with a unique number and certificate [i.e., one kilogram bars bearing the Johnson Mathey hallmark]. There were some large jade carvings, gems, etc. etc. It was like the Arabian Nights. At this time, along with stacks of files and doc's (several large suit cases full) pertaining to the Sukarno metal deposits in UBS, several bars were brought back to the US and are presently in a safety-box here."
Significantly, Sukarno's trustee agreed to allow a selection of bars drawn at random from the cache to enable them to be drilled and analysed to verify their purity and metal content (a bar number and description was provided to this writer for verification purposes). Also, a number of UBS and SBC documents that were also provided during the same trip later were able to be verified genuine.
As interesting and, indeed, as important as this information was, there was a still more significant surprise awaiting me. According to Tom, Sukarno's trustee explained that all this gold and other plunder was originally intended: "...to be the reserve for a third world non-aligned nations bank that Sukarno was going to set up with HQ in Indonesia. In one stroke much of the smoke and mirrors that had surrounded Dr. Damanik's own reticent explanations to Peter Johnson were clarified.
Sukarno's plan to found a non-aligned world bank is of the greatest historical significance. The establishment of such a powerful entity possessing gold reserves that dwarfed those available to the West would have sent shivers of fear down the backs of Western governments and the European and US banking fraternity, which just a few years earlier had concluded the Bretton Woods Agreement, resulting in the establishment of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Both institutions remain the primary vehicles for keeping Third World nations impoverished -- a fact that benefits a wealthy West dedicated to a social structure dependent on consumerism.
It is more than likely that this plan for a non-aligned nations world bank formed the substantive backdrop to the 1955 Bandung conference of non-aligned nations that so clearly caused concern for the Bilderberg group in 1955 -- and which Dr. Damanik darkly referenced in his discussions with Peter Johnston. Founding such a bank would certainly have galvanized the intelligence community into action and may very well amount to the real motive -- and hitherto an even deeper secret -- behind the CIA's decision, commencing 1955, to corral and then overthrow President Sukarno.
Tom observed: "I can understand no one wanting to upset the apple cart with regard to the current status of metal in the bank, legal or not, that may or may not have legitimately belonged to a dead third world leader. In fact I've been told very rudely by one banker that the banks who issued the deposit certificates in question do not and never did have anything to do with them ... the heirs of Sukarno have no right to any of these deposits ... and they are currently being controlled and operated by 'legally appointed names,' but these individuals have nothing to do with anything Indonesian."
This state of the affairs neatly dovetails with the facts regarding Peter Johnston's and Dr. Damanik's gold certificates. If Sukarno (and Marcos et al) did not control the gold -- and since it was stolen during World War II by the Golden Lily, clearly they didn't -- who does control it and why does such a fortune remain undisturbed in the jungles of Indonesia?
This cache of Sukarno gold was, Tom said: "stashed, left, & has been just held in secret for a long time, at the very least since the 1960s. Also evidently there hasn't been any attempt to launder it, sell any of it off or do much else with it - the only thing I've heard, but don't have anything other than [the trustee] story to substantiate, is that a few years ago a son of one of the people charged with guarding some of this treasure made a deal to sell 200 tonnes of the AU to some Hong Kong people, he spirited it away to Singapore and later ended up dead in a hotel there. Also evidently the only thing anyone seems to have tried to do is something with the CDs relating to metal deposits in Swiss banks, all without result so far as I know."
Suspicious deaths of individuals involved in trying to move, sell or launder black gold are fairly common and, naturally, lead to great care and caution amongst those who try to recover and move hoards of treasure from their burial sites. This caution usually extends to the practice of not discussing details of such transactions with anyone other than intimates. Again, the reference to failed attempts to sell gold certificates backed by this gold parallels Peter Johnston's own experience.
Having digested the information received from Tom, I posed a number of subsequent questions to him. He replied saying: "Yes, when I said 270 T I meant US$ 270 Trillion. This is the 'Value' figure indicated on the top of a UBS 'Master' document [the trustee] has. As it's on their letter head evidently it was put together by UBS. This document is a very long listing of account or certificate ID#s, on a page about 3+ feet square. One can match ID numbers of individual certificates against numbers found on this list. Also some numbers have indications that these have been loaned to or are/were being used by someone (NASA funding, UK Crown are only a few I remember). I assume these certificates and their periodic statements, the related warehouse receipts and this master document refer only to the Au & PT being held by UBS in storage. Also I assume these don't concern the hoard of Au, Pt, art & gems that's still hidden in the jungles."
"To give you an idea of what's involved. There are: - Bank certificates indicating Au and Pt on deposit with UBS; thousands of tons total! - Yearly Statements regarding many of these accounts sent out by the banks concerned to three designated world locations (most recent of these I've seen personally are dated 1994). Most of these are hundreds of pages each. - Vault Keys & Depositor I.D. cards made of gold, Warehouse receipts, all related to these UBS accounts and vaults. - Bank CDs related to cash, issued by banks such as Credit Suisse, SBC, HKSB, Bank of Tokyo. - Accounts in several other major and minor world banks. - A Power of Trusteeship Document granted to [the trustee] which I understand gives him authority to govern and administer certain aspects if not all of this estate (And which I also understand IS on file with the Swiss government and several Swiss banking institutions). - Finally, the 'Master List' above mentioned." "Although we have all these documents indicating metal & also cash on deposit with UBS and other banks, many thousands of pages, never the less, I am told several puzzling & seemingly contradictory things by a banker who to me clearly appears to have some inside knowledge re these matters: 1.) That UBS, Credit Suisse and SBC 'Do not and never did have anything to do with these deposits'. This, even though all these documents are on the letterheads of UBS, Cr Swiss, SBC, etc., and even though these banks have sent and continue to send out yearly statements regarding these deposits. 2.) That 'These accounts are currently operative, not dormant; and the people who run them do so with the proper authority'. However, 'NO heir of Sukarno or Marcos has any right to govern any of these accounts and deposits ... or has any authority whatever over these accounts. Those are not their own ... private family ... accounts, to be bequeathed to family or designated heirs'. This, although Sukarno's name, signature and picture, as well as that of some of his family members, are on these certificates and accounts (also Marcos on some others I gather). 3. Also related to Marcos, 'These accounts are being properly administered by the appointed "names". The Credit Suisse "cash'' account alone is now over $3 billion, spread over 200 accounts (for Marcos personal share only, of course)'. And, 'Why doesn't anyone ask Imee and her husband about the Deutsche Bank deposits in his name? Why is he completely uninterested in recovering any assets?' 4.) Finally, although I'm told 'The truth of all this is much simpler than the elaborate speculations which have allowed brokers of all sorts to cheerfully attempt to screw each other'. At the same time I am rather rudely instructed 'not to delve deeply into matters that can earn you more knowledge than you should be reasonably comfortable having.'"
"Although we have all these documents indicating metal & also cash on deposit with UBS and other banks, many thousands of pages, never the less, I am told several puzzling & seemingly contradictory things by a banker who to me clearly appears to have some inside knowledge re these matters: 1.) That UBS, Credit Suisse and SBC 'Do not and never did have anything to do with these deposits'. This, even though all these documents are on the letterheads of UBS, Cr Swiss, SBC, etc., and even though these banks have sent and continue to send out yearly statements regarding these deposits. 2.) That 'These accounts are currently operative, not dormant; and the people who run them do so with the proper authority'. However, 'NO heir of Sukarno or Marcos has any right to govern any of these accounts and deposits ... or has any authority whatever over these accounts. Those are not their own ... private family ... accounts, to be bequeathed to family or designated heirs'. This, although Sukarno's name, signature and picture, as well as that of some of his family members, are on these certificates and accounts (also Marcos on some others I gather). 3. Also related to Marcos, 'These accounts are being properly administered by the appointed "names". The Credit Suisse "cash'' account alone is now over $3 billion, spread over 200 accounts (for Marcos personal share only, of course)'. And, 'Why doesn't anyone ask Imee and her husband about the Deutsche Bank deposits in his name? Why is he completely uninterested in recovering any assets?' 4.) Finally, although I'm told 'The truth of all this is much simpler than the elaborate speculations which have allowed brokers of all sorts to cheerfully attempt to screw each other'. At the same time I am rather rudely instructed 'not to delve deeply into matters that can earn you more knowledge than you should be reasonably comfortable having.'"
In a later exchange, Tom revealed that Sukarno's trustee told him that: "UBS tried to bribe him in 1992, this was when he went to Switzerland to talk to UBS and present his credentials and position statement. I don't remember exactly but I think they offered him $100 million cash & 100 tons of Au to go away and forget about it. Also, I believe there were at least 2 others who [the trustee] had given original certificates to present to UBS who were bribed; one lady somehow connected with the World Bank, and another man somehow connected to the then mayor of Paris. Then there's the incident of the SBC $25 million FCM note #4507 B.L."
"About 4+ years ago we met with some retired US treasury dept. people. Among the many things [the trustee] has they chose a $25 million FCM (or FMC ?) note to work with. As I understand this is a US dollar Swiss treasury note of some kind issued by SBC. This note has reached maturity and I believe it's now worth in the neighborhood of $80 million. The note is in the name of one of Sukarno's former wives named Harteeni (sp?). [The trustee] has the documentation to show that she has signed it over to him, thus if there were any doubt Harteeni is still living so conceivably she could confirm this."
"To try to make a long story short. When these retired treasury people presented a copy of this note to UBS NY requesting arrangements be made for payment on it to [the trustee], law officers of some kind were called in, the copy of the note was confiscated and they were charged by the bank with presenting a false document. A court date was set, and far from being distraught I can tell you that [the trustee] and the retired treasury people were very happy, because now this was going to be a beginning in bringing up the matter of all of Sukarno's deposits, [the trustee's] trusteeship, etc. etc. However when they went to court neither the UBS NY lady lawyer who had brought the charge, [lawyer's name withheld], nor anyone else from UBS showed up to pursue or press the charge. Finally I can tell you that at the present time one of the retired treasury people has filed a written complaint with his US Senator, complaining that his rights were violated by what happened. The Senator has begun his own investigation of the matter, feeling that someone's trying to cover up something & also maybe he can get the democrats on this. However I've heard the Senator's preliminary investigation has run into a lot of roadblocks and hasn't gotten very far."
I have cited Tom's story at some length, not only because it fills in many gaps in Peter Johnston's own story, but also because it is highly revealing in its own right. Tom sought answers to the many questions he had about the foregoing, not least the curious involvement of the numerous international banks involved, not as principals, but as representatives for others. As we shall see, it is almost certainly the case that these "others" are a group of nations who were party to a secret agreement to exert control over plundered World War II gold and other assets and to ensure these did not enter the banking system or otherwise be utilised without such nations approval.
Footnotes
[i] See Seagrave, Sterling, The Yamato Dynasty (London: Bantam Press, 1999) for a more detailed background on the nature, size and quantity of Golden Lily plunder sites in the Philippines.
Back to Contents page
Next Page
