# D e e p B l a c k L i e s .co.uk

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/secretgoldtreaty/jonathanmay_appendix2.htm

Appendix 2
BIG BROTHER & THE CASHLESS SOCIETY
- THE JONATHAN MAY STORY
Jonathan May is a British citizen, who through certain sources in the Trilateral Commission, and the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) became quite knowlegable as to what the "internationalists" intend to do worldwide. He became so disturbed with this information that he decided with a few others, to try to counteract their 'game-plan'. He refers to the "internationalists" as "a group of power-elite individuals, probably no more than 12-15 people, who hold the purse strings of every nation in the world, and control most of the governments of the world - through the control of their finances."
He decided to counter-act them by establishing a world-wide "federal reserve".
(Nb: This is not referring to the "Fed", or US Federal Reserve, which is a PRIVATELY OWNED COMPANY).
He got the Arabs to invest some large sums of money. At the point that the Arabs were to deliver the funds in order to start this new system, the "internationalists" in England found out about it. His life was repeatedly threatened, and so he went to America. In August 1986, shortly after arrival in the US, he was arrested and put in the Federal Prison in Minneapolis on erroneous charges.
The following is an extract from the transcript of a telephone interview with Jonathan May from the Federal Prison in Minneapolis.
"First of all there are thirteen families that effectively control the central banks of the hard currency countries. The hard currency countries are the countries whose currencies are caused not to fluctuate as much as the other countries' currencies fluctuate. Those thirteen families have the control of the policy making and the decision making of the central banks of those countries.
They all, with one accord, practice fractional reserve banking. Fractional reserve banking has allowed the central banks to permit the prime banks, whose owners and controllers are the same people who own the central banks, to lend up to twenty six units of currency, for every one unit of currency they have, quote, "on deposit". (In America, a deposit of $1,000- can be used by the banks as "security" to lend the equivalent of $20,229.60, and that does not include the interest).
"The initial final stages of the final phase of system 2000 which is the global creditors, unilateral totalitarian plan was put into effect back in the early mid seventies. A Pentagon official and three other US Govt officials had visited the Prime Minister in Nigeria. They offered him $50 million to more than double the price of body light (light crude oil). [Only two nations in the world have light crude oil, which is the oil that as it comes out of the ground, it could almost be used in your car. It is the most valuable oil in the world. According to the price of light crude oil, all other oil in the world is priced.]
At the same time, George Bush and some others of the Trilateral Commission were in the middle east persuading middle eastern nations and England to consolidate OPEC, of which, America is also a part, but rarely mentioned.
The deal cut with the middle eastern oil producers, was that the oil buyers were prepared to pay significantly higher prices for the oil, provided the middle eastern nations 'supported' America, by investing these revenues in the big banks in America.
Sheikh Kheimani's nephew assured us that Sheikh Kheimani and the other oil ministers did not know until the late 70's/early 80's, that the controlling interests in the prime banks were also the same people who have the controlling interest of the major oil companies through a joint stock trust that was set up by the original Rockefellers here in America in 1870, three years before the US Govt declared joint stock trusts illegal in 1873. It is that entity that is the ultimate controlling factor in America of the prime banks, the Federal Reserve Board, the major oil companies and many of the major multinationals.
That trust is in joint control of the Rockefeller Foundation and the European interests. The deal cut with the Saudi and Kuwait and other mid eastern nations was that they should put their money in the prime banks. They did not know that the prime banks were able to lend out a ratio of approx 20 times their deposits! Their revenues were only the interest on the monies they were depositing for between 10 and 30 years, receiving the principal at the end of the term.
Because they had locked-in deposits, the banks were then able to make loans to the Third World Nations, whilst knowing and relying on the greed of the ministers of these nations to mishandle the money over the years to the extent where that manipulated greed has caused those countries to be in the position they are in.
In 1983, we became aware of the fact that a group of very, very quiet bank holding companies which, authorised under regulation Y, Section 225.4 of
USC, can extend credit under any terms they feel like. We became aware of the fact that these companies were receiving loans from the prime banks to buy forclosed real property,
ie: businesses with bricks and mortar from liquidations, forclosures and bankruptcies - which were being effected by the FDIC, and
FSOIT. These entities are subsidiaries, or at least, totally under the control of the Federal Reserve Board.
At the end of 1985 we were approached by an emissary of President Marcos and President Suharto, and another from Indonesia with a severe problem that they had. The problem was that having borrowed all the money they borrowed, they still needed more money. But the only way the IMF were prepared to lend them money was if they eliminated their own currencies, became dollar denominated, subsequently eliminated cash altogether, and went onto a unilateral, centralised credit card system. This would then become part of their identity system, whereby everybody's social security number was synonymous with a credit card number. The central bank would thus act as the wholesaler for credit which was extended to it by the new super bank, announced by Paul Volker on the 27th October, 1985, and subsequently ratified by Ronald Reagan.
A further contingent condition of the "benevolence" of the IMF, was that in order to help the economy of those countries, the IMF were to nominate external non-domestic corporations to properly engineer, exploit and excavate the natural resources of those countries in return for perpetual
royalities. Marcos was sharp enough to pick up the word "perpetual" and realised, quite obviously, that in so doing he would be signing away the sovereignity of his nation forever.
In return for President Suharto and President Marcos's capitulation to the IMF's terms and conditions, they were to have their existing debts forgiven absolutely and the new lines of credit to be extended to them were to be upon better terms and conditions.
When we heard the word 'perpetual' and the word "totally forgiven" we
immediately began to recognise what another group of holding companies, operating with the previous group of holding companies that we mentioned, were doing. What they were doing, was receiving credit from the first
group of holding companies to purchase assets and liabilities from the prime banks.
Now the only liabilities they were purchasing, were the liabilities represented by the deposits of the Arab nations. The only assets they were buying, were the assets represented by the loans made to some of the debtor nations.
It then became clear as a result of observation and subsequent ratification by information from within the Trilateral Commission, that the forgiveness of the third world debts would obviously eliminate the assets which were being purchased by this second group of holding companies, leaving them only with the
liabilities that were owed to the middle eastern nations.
The Arabs were being serviced by the prime banks, and had no idea that these liabilities were now owed by the holding companies; they also had no idea that the debtor nations had stopped repaying the prime banks.
The holding companies' arrangement was merely that the prime banks were going to act as servicing agents for the holding companies, again so that the third world nations didn't know that the holding companies were owed the money.
The effect of the elimination of the assets of the second group of holding companies is actually three fold: 1) They would be insolvent and would be legally able to declare themselves insolvent. 2) They can then legally and legitimately avoid payment to the middle eastern nations. 3) The precipitous effect of that, in view of the westernisation of the middle east nations, is obvious; they will have to liquidate all the volume of the other assets they have, which are primarily represented by US corporate ownership of many, many billions of dollars worth of US stocks.
The effect of the Saudis and Kuwaiti's and the middle eastern people selling even 25% of their total holdings of the US market, and the other markets that are US dollar denominated, will be absolutely chaotic in terms of the stock market and, everything else. The catastrophic effect of that, has been designed to throw the American stock market, American private corporations, American real estate, and people in general, into a state of confusion.
The plan is, that the state of confusion will be greeted with the "salvation" of the "benevolent" bankers on two fronts. First they propose to eliminate cash because of the collapse and also to stop drug trafficking and tax cheating.
It is at that point that they intend to implement a mandatory credit card,
identity, social security card which will be satellite linked through the "Star Wars Program", which has 40% to do with Star Wars, and 60% to do with the transmission of banking information to the central bank which will be the super bank into which all the other major banks will be linked along with the subsidiary banks, rather like a family. The super bank is to be the wholesaler, the prime banks the retailers in this country. It is a world design, it is a world order, it is a world programme.
The resultant collapse of the second group of holding companies will precipitate the Saudis and the
Kuwaiti's liquidation of assets. It will also precipitate their inability to pay the private group of bank holding companies the money that they owe them for the credit extension to them to buy the assets and liabilities.
This in turn will precipitate those bank holding companies inability to pay the loan extended to them by the prime banks to buy the
foreclosed loans, which were used as collateral to secure those loans, hence
ultimately the prime banks will end up with all the property!
Next
Page
Hit back button on your browser to return to previous page
