# DARPA in 2020 - Advancing Strategic Tech in Soldiers and Weapons

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_DARPA18.htm

by Susanne Posel March 28, 2015
from OccupyCorporatism Website
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) has dominated technological and strategic advancements,
"but that could change in the future".
There are "challenges that threaten America's status" as the world leader of technological innovations:
Emergence of more powerful technologies Non-state actors Peer adversaries
Emergence of more powerful technologies
Non-state actors
Peer adversaries
Priorities for DARPA over the next decade appear to be dramatically changing as the agency's mission and philosophy is altering with the times.
According to a report (Breakthrough Technologies for National Security) produced by DARPA:
"Those changes include some remarkable and even astonishing scientific and technological advances that, if wisely and purposefully harnessed, have the potential not only to ensure ongoing U.S. military superiority and security but also to catalyze societal and economic advances. At the same time, the world is experiencing some deeply disturbing technical, economic, and geopolitical shifts that pose potential threats to U.S. preeminence and stability."
"Those changes include some remarkable and even astonishing scientific and technological advances that, if wisely and purposefully harnessed, have the potential not only to ensure ongoing U.S. military superiority and security but also to catalyze societal and economic advances.
At the same time, the world is experiencing some deeply disturbing technical, economic, and geopolitical shifts that pose potential threats to U.S. preeminence and stability."
Investments in future for DARPA include:
Rethinking military systems Mastering the "information explosion" Melding and controlling biology with technology Expansion of the "technological frontier"
Rethinking military systems
Mastering the "information explosion"
Melding and controlling biology with technology
Expansion of the "technological frontier"
Improvements in the Global Positioning System (GPS) and weapons systems are creating more modular and easily upgraded tools.
Combined with the "explosion of information", DARPA is focused on,
"developing new approaches to derive insights from massive datasets along with new technologies to protect sensitive data and systems, including automated cyber defense capabilities."
Neuroscience, immunology, genetics and related fields are the focus of DARPA's new Biological Technologies Office (BTO).
Described by the agency, BTO has,
"enabled a new level of momentum for the Agency's portfolio of innovative, bio-based programs."
This has enhanced programs already in place at DARPA that are aimed at,
accelerating progress in synthetic biology outpacing the spread of infectious diseases mastering new neurotechnologies
accelerating progress in synthetic biology
outpacing the spread of infectious diseases
mastering new neurotechnologies
Barriers in engineering and physics are proving to be surmountable as new capabilities and breakthroughs are brought to the surface and applied to national security needs.
DARPA explained:
"[We are] working to achieve new capabilities by applying deep mathematics; inventing new chemistries, processes and materials; and harnessing quantum physics."
The BTO is tasked with blending with machine for the defense of national security.
Building synthetic soldiers, stopping plagues and making humans more advanced through robotics is the focus of this military agency. The next generation of artificial human brains, robotic aircraft, advanced prosthetics and autonomous computers are just the tip of the iceberg for DARPA.
BTO is exploring,
"the increasingly dynamic intersection of biology and the physical sciences" by expanding the efforts of, Defense Sciences office (DSO) Microsystems Technology office (MTO)
"the increasingly dynamic intersection of biology and the physical sciences" by expanding the efforts of,
Defense Sciences office (DSO) Microsystems Technology office (MTO)
Defense Sciences office (DSO)
Microsystems Technology office (MTO)
Arati Prabhakar, director for DARPA told Congress that:
"Biology is nature's ultimate innovator, and any agency that hangs its hat on innovation would be foolish not to look to this master of networked complexity for inspiration and solutions."
Regarding the development of super soldiers, Prabhakar said:
"We had quadriplegic volunteers who agreed to have brain surgery, essentially have a small array placed on the surface of their brains, to pick up these neural signals for motor control, and then to use those to control these new, very sophisticated, robotic, prosthetic arms. In a sense we've opened a door - a connection between the human brain and the rest of the world. You can let your imagination go wild about where that's going to take us."
"We had quadriplegic volunteers who agreed to have brain surgery, essentially have a small array placed on the surface of their brains, to pick up these neural signals for motor control, and then to use those to control these new, very sophisticated, robotic, prosthetic arms.
In a sense we've opened a door - a connection between the human brain and the rest of the world. You can let your imagination go wild about where that's going to take us."
DARPA is working on improving humans by:
Create the ability to survive blood loss Alter the human brain's ability to recall accurate memories Develop technology to enhance the human metabolic system to obtain super-human resilience and immediate recovery from physical injury and disease Enhance human vision with cat-like upgrades for seeing in infrared Robotic limbs that are controlled via thought
Create the ability to survive blood loss
Alter the human brain's ability to recall accurate memories
Develop technology to enhance the human metabolic system to obtain super-human resilience and immediate recovery from physical injury and disease
Enhance human vision with cat-like upgrades for seeing in infrared
Robotic limbs that are controlled via thought
Hacking the Human Brain and Super Soldiers December 16, 2012 Transhumanism gone wild. Nothing about this is pretty and within the fractured minds of these futurists is a desire to achieve a result that is already inherit within the human, high "spirituality", which one can access now by simply deciding to love unconditionally. Sounds hokey I know. Here's one reporters take on this below: The Human Connectome Project (HCP) is dedicated to, "understanding the complete details of neural connectivity." They endeavor to, "construct a map of the complete structural and functional neural connections in vivo within and across individuals." By compiling data on genetics, behavior, matter fiber pathways, and functional correlations, the HCP have refined and optimized, "the spatial and functional resolution of our connectome neuroimaging" as well as acquiring "high resolution neuroimaging data" to enhance understanding of the "neuroanatomical connectedness of the human brain." Advancing biometrics with neurological augmentations would result in successful connectivity of the human brain to robotic systems in a literal sense. AutoNOMOS Labs have developed an iPad app that allows users to order their car to drive. After a few modifications, the technology can control the car through the brain of the driver. A software program called BrainDriver interprets and records information just as an EEG which can be understood and translated into intentions which are then played out by the vehicle. At the Human Enhancement and the Future of Work conference, and further expanded upon in their published report, explains how science and ethics are coming into conflict as technology promises to replace the faulty human body with an eternal, mechanical replacement. These transhumanists define human enhancement as everything that, "encompasses a range of approaches that may be used to improve aspects of human function (e.g. memory, hearing, mobility). This may either be for the purpose of restoring an impaired function to previous or average levels, or to raise function to a level considered to be 'beyond the norm' for humans." By using brain-computer interface (BCI) to facilitate communication between the mind and external machines, technology began in the 1970s at the University of California with funding from the National Science Foundation and contractual agreements with DARPA have resulted in research into neuroprosthetic applications that reconnect the natural sensors in the human brain to electronic effector channels and make prosthetics more functional. An EEG headset can process brain activity as sensors read the electro-magnetic signatures of the human brain. DARPA has a $2 billion yearly budget for research into creating a super-soldier as well as developing a synthetic police force. Working with the human genome, DARPA hopes to manipulate certain gene expressions. In experimentation, DARPA and the military industrial pharmaceutical complex are using natural abilities that are enhanced through genetic engineering. Some of the medical feats DARPA would like to enhance are the ability of military soldiers to regrow limbs destroyed in battle. By eliminating empathy, the Department of Defense (DoD) hopes to "enhance" a soldier's ability to, "kill without care or remorse, shows no fear, can fight battle after battle without fatigue and generally behave more like a machine than a man." Scientists are researching the construction of soldiers that feel no pain, terror and do not suffer from fatigue as tests on the wiring of the human brain are furthered by Jonathan Moreno, professor of bioethics at Pennsylvania State University. Moreno is working with the DoD in understanding neuroscience. The Pentagon allocated $400 million to this research. Further study could be passed onto the general public in order to maximize profits as well as enhance the drug's effectiveness. According to Joel Garreau, professor at Arizona University, DARPA is learning how to genetically modify human fat into pure energy by rewiring the metabolic switch which would create soldiers that require less food. By using gene therapy and combining enhancements to alter the color of the human eye is a blending of mutations that have no basis in the natural world. In addition to genetically modifying the human genome, global Elite are obsessed with the merging man and machine, transhumanism and immortality. Basing advancements on scientific research, the 2045 Program will create, "a new vision of human development that meets global challenges humanity faces today, realization of the possibility of a radical extension of human life by means of cybernetic technology, as well as the formation of a new culture associated with these technologies."
Hacking the Human Brain and Super Soldiers December 16, 2012 Transhumanism gone wild.
Nothing about this is pretty and within the fractured minds of these futurists is a desire to achieve a result that is already inherit within the human, high "spirituality", which one can access now by simply deciding to love unconditionally.
Sounds hokey I know. Here's one reporters take on this below:
The Human Connectome Project (HCP) is dedicated to, "understanding the complete details of neural connectivity." They endeavor to, "construct a map of the complete structural and functional neural connections in vivo within and across individuals." By compiling data on genetics, behavior, matter fiber pathways, and functional correlations, the HCP have refined and optimized, "the spatial and functional resolution of our connectome neuroimaging" as well as acquiring "high resolution neuroimaging data" to enhance understanding of the "neuroanatomical connectedness of the human brain." Advancing biometrics with neurological augmentations would result in successful connectivity of the human brain to robotic systems in a literal sense. AutoNOMOS Labs have developed an iPad app that allows users to order their car to drive. After a few modifications, the technology can control the car through the brain of the driver. A software program called BrainDriver interprets and records information just as an EEG which can be understood and translated into intentions which are then played out by the vehicle. At the Human Enhancement and the Future of Work conference, and further expanded upon in their published report, explains how science and ethics are coming into conflict as technology promises to replace the faulty human body with an eternal, mechanical replacement. These transhumanists define human enhancement as everything that, "encompasses a range of approaches that may be used to improve aspects of human function (e.g. memory, hearing, mobility). This may either be for the purpose of restoring an impaired function to previous or average levels, or to raise function to a level considered to be 'beyond the norm' for humans." By using brain-computer interface (BCI) to facilitate communication between the mind and external machines, technology began in the 1970s at the University of California with funding from the National Science Foundation and contractual agreements with DARPA have resulted in research into neuroprosthetic applications that reconnect the natural sensors in the human brain to electronic effector channels and make prosthetics more functional. An EEG headset can process brain activity as sensors read the electro-magnetic signatures of the human brain. DARPA has a $2 billion yearly budget for research into creating a super-soldier as well as developing a synthetic police force. Working with the human genome, DARPA hopes to manipulate certain gene expressions. In experimentation, DARPA and the military industrial pharmaceutical complex are using natural abilities that are enhanced through genetic engineering. Some of the medical feats DARPA would like to enhance are the ability of military soldiers to regrow limbs destroyed in battle. By eliminating empathy, the Department of Defense (DoD) hopes to "enhance" a soldier's ability to, "kill without care or remorse, shows no fear, can fight battle after battle without fatigue and generally behave more like a machine than a man." Scientists are researching the construction of soldiers that feel no pain, terror and do not suffer from fatigue as tests on the wiring of the human brain are furthered by Jonathan Moreno, professor of bioethics at Pennsylvania State University. Moreno is working with the DoD in understanding neuroscience. The Pentagon allocated $400 million to this research. Further study could be passed onto the general public in order to maximize profits as well as enhance the drug's effectiveness. According to Joel Garreau, professor at Arizona University, DARPA is learning how to genetically modify human fat into pure energy by rewiring the metabolic switch which would create soldiers that require less food. By using gene therapy and combining enhancements to alter the color of the human eye is a blending of mutations that have no basis in the natural world. In addition to genetically modifying the human genome, global Elite are obsessed with the merging man and machine, transhumanism and immortality. Basing advancements on scientific research, the 2045 Program will create, "a new vision of human development that meets global challenges humanity faces today, realization of the possibility of a radical extension of human life by means of cybernetic technology, as well as the formation of a new culture associated with these technologies."
The Human Connectome Project (HCP) is dedicated to,
"understanding the complete details of neural connectivity."
They endeavor to,
"construct a map of the complete structural and functional neural connections in vivo within and across individuals."
By compiling data on genetics, behavior, matter fiber pathways, and functional correlations, the HCP have refined and optimized,
"the spatial and functional resolution of our connectome neuroimaging" as well as acquiring "high resolution neuroimaging data" to enhance understanding of the "neuroanatomical connectedness of the human brain."
Advancing biometrics with neurological augmentations would result in successful connectivity of the human brain to robotic systems in a literal sense. AutoNOMOS Labs have developed an iPad app that allows users to order their car to drive. After a few modifications, the technology can control the car through the brain of the driver.
A software program called BrainDriver interprets and records information just as an EEG which can be understood and translated into intentions which are then played out by the vehicle. At the Human Enhancement and the Future of Work conference, and further expanded upon in their published report, explains how science and ethics are coming into conflict as technology promises to replace the faulty human body with an eternal, mechanical replacement. These transhumanists define human enhancement as everything that,
"encompasses a range of approaches that may be used to improve aspects of human function (e.g. memory, hearing, mobility). This may either be for the purpose of restoring an impaired function to previous or average levels, or to raise function to a level considered to be 'beyond the norm' for humans."
"encompasses a range of approaches that may be used to improve aspects of human function (e.g. memory, hearing, mobility).
This may either be for the purpose of restoring an impaired function to previous or average levels, or to raise function to a level considered to be 'beyond the norm' for humans."
By using brain-computer interface (BCI) to facilitate communication between the mind and external machines, technology began in the 1970s at the University of California with funding from the National Science Foundation and contractual agreements with DARPA have resulted in research into neuroprosthetic applications that reconnect the natural sensors in the human brain to electronic effector channels and make prosthetics more functional. An EEG headset can process brain activity as sensors read the electro-magnetic signatures of the human brain. DARPA has a $2 billion yearly budget for research into creating a super-soldier as well as developing a synthetic police force.
Working with the human genome, DARPA hopes to manipulate certain gene expressions.
In experimentation, DARPA and the military industrial pharmaceutical complex are using natural abilities that are enhanced through genetic engineering. Some of the medical feats DARPA would like to enhance are the ability of military soldiers to regrow limbs destroyed in battle. By eliminating empathy, the Department of Defense (DoD) hopes to "enhance" a soldier's ability to,
"kill without care or remorse, shows no fear, can fight battle after battle without fatigue and generally behave more like a machine than a man."
Scientists are researching the construction of soldiers that feel no pain, terror and do not suffer from fatigue as tests on the wiring of the human brain are furthered by Jonathan Moreno, professor of bioethics at Pennsylvania State University.
Moreno is working with the DoD in understanding neuroscience. The Pentagon allocated $400 million to this research. Further study could be passed onto the general public in order to maximize profits as well as enhance the drug's effectiveness.
According to Joel Garreau, professor at Arizona University, DARPA is learning how to genetically modify human fat into pure energy by rewiring the metabolic switch which would create soldiers that require less food.
By using gene therapy and combining enhancements to alter the color of the human eye is a blending of mutations that have no basis in the natural world. In addition to genetically modifying the human genome, global Elite are obsessed with the merging man and machine, transhumanism and immortality.
Basing advancements on scientific research, the 2045 Program will create,
"a new vision of human development that meets global challenges humanity faces today, realization of the possibility of a radical extension of human life by means of cybernetic technology, as well as the formation of a new culture associated with these technologies."
Return to DARPA - Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
