# Deeper Insights 2: THE TRAUMATIZATION & TORTURE OF THE VICTIM

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/mindcontrol2/part02.htm

CHAPTER 2. SCIENCE NO. 2--THE TRAUMATIZATION & TORTURE OF THE VICTIM
[back]
DAILY ABUSE WORKS BEST FOR PROGRAMMING
ANGER-MANAGEMENT-PROGRAMMING TRAUMAS
SILENCE PROGRAMMING TRAUMAS to TEACH SILENCE
TORTURE FOR NO-WRITE PAY ATTENTION TORTURE
A COMPLIANCE TORTURE -- The Black Slave Chair.
A TRAUMA TO DEVELOP ANIMAL ALTERS TRAUMA TO ISOLATE THE VICTIM
The basis for the success of the Monarch mind-control programming is that different personalities or personality parts called alters can be created who do not know each other, but who can take the body at different times. Lets review some important points that were mentioned in the Vol.2 book, The amnesia walls that are built by traumas, form a protective shield of secrecy that protects the abusers from being found out, and prevents the front personalities who hold the body much of the time to know how their System of alters is being used. The shield of secrecy allows cult members to live and work around other people and remain totally undetected. The front alters can be wonderful Christians, and the deeper alters can be the worst type of Satanic monster imaginable--a Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde effect."
A great deal is at stake in maintaining the secrecy of the intelligence agency or the occult group which is controlling the slave. The success rate of this type of programming is high but when it fails, the failures are discarded through death." Each trauma and torture serves a purpose." To create alters (dissociative parts of the mind) the worse the trauma, the better the amnesia walls, so programmers have been spending years trying to outdo each other in creating the worlds worst traumas that humans can survive, so they can program people. Readers may at first wonder why cover this gruesome part of the programming? There are a number of reasons. People who pretend to be helpful people--such as some ministers, and some professional therapists--are unwilling to look at the facts of what have been done to the victims they claim to want to help. How can the victim ever come out of denial and face the issues around their dissociation--IF the people helping them who didnt experience these traumas first hand cant even face the existence and nature of these traumas? Many therapists encourage the victim to maintain their amnesia walls, "let the past be the past". They say, "You cant change the past." No matter how appealing this advice sounds, this advice for victims of trauma-based mind-control this is defective, idiotic simple advice. This type of advice only continues the mind-control and the abuse of the victim. No wonder Christian ministers who are under their mind-control are used to spout off this type of defective advice. It is important to cover programming traumas because it validates the memories of recovering victims, and because there are standard types of trauma that are used for certain types of programming. For instance, traumas that desensitize a person to killing--i.e. traumas where the victim is forced to kill innocent people--are used to program assassination alters. The base of the programming is FEAR layered via trauma. Hopefully, the readers will be inspired and motivated like this author to try to stop this horrendous mind-control.
DAILY ABUSE WORKS BEST FOR PROGRAMMING
To insure that the programming and abuse stays hidden from even the slave, the slave is given daily traumas as a child to keep them dissociative. The Illuminatis programmers get the cooperation of a vast network of abusers who traumatize the children who are being programmed. One of the Illuminatis fronts is the Catholic church, which the Jesuits manage for the Illuminati. Under the cover of religious retreats and their religious image, many Catholic clergymen have been participants in the vast trauma network actively creating trauma-based mind controlled slaves. The problem in exposing this is that first the people who are being traumatized have trust in the clergymen who are doing the traumas. Second, if the victims or parents of the victims suspect anything, they usually go to church officials rather than the police in order to clear up the problem, yet protect the church. Additionally, in most cases both the corrupt religious system, working behind the corrupt police and judicial system manoeuver to protect the abuser and to further victimize the mind-control victim and anyone coming to the persons rescue. The following are but a few examples of a widespread network of secret abuse, that will not be uncovered because the system to catch abusers has long ago been corrupted and infiltrated and controlled by mind-controlled slaves, as well as by blackmailed or bribed dirty persons of authority.
Roger Trott, a Catholic Priest in Delmont, PA convicted of molesting 12 boys, got a suspended sentence by the judge. Can you believe such unbelievable leniency?
Father John Engbers (b. 1922, in Holland), catholic pastor at Leroy outside of Lafayette, LA. He baby-sat for a family, in which he sexually molested their children, their five daughters. He was treated as a member of this family and the mother, who was of Amer. Indian descent, was very close ("worshipped"-according to one daughter) to Father John. She spent long hours alone with him. He would tell his victims that they were his "puppet, like Pinocchio." He molested some of the girls almost every day, and had them under his control enough that they returned even when they were living at a distance from him. He had what appeared to be a hypnotic type spell over them. Father John Engbers molested many children during his years as a Louisiana priest, until he fled in 1985. He had lots of money to spend. The Catholic church had known he was molesting children clear back in 1952, when some parents complained. The Catholic hierarchy helped him escape back to Holland in mid-1985, when reports and law suits over how he sexually molested children came out. The case of Father John Engbers has all the earmarks of a participant in the daily Monarch mind-control abuse given to children.
Dennis Dellamalva, a Pennslyvannia Catholic Priest, who molested boys, and the judicial system protected him from prosecution. The judge, a catholic order the records of this paedophilia priest sealed, and the catholic church which knew of his deviant behavior continued to give him a position of authority.
Michael Peterson, a child molesting priest, who was a drug addict and a homosexual, was one of the catholic hierarchys main men involved with investigations of pedophilia, who died of AIDS, and his rich sidekick Stephen B.C. Johnson II, who administered a catholic facility near Boston, Mass. Michael Peterson lived a rich lifestyle in Marsalin, and later Suitland, next to St. Luke and told people that he was not worried about anyone, because he had the goods on them to force them to comply. Michael Petersons St. Lukes was used by the Catholic church to receive many priests that were caught doing paedophilia. In the first six years, St. Lukes claimed to have cured 55 child molesting priests.
Monsignor William A. Kraft, (b. Rochester, NY), Knight of the Holy Sepulcher, was pastor of St. Therese during the 60s, and by 1978 the rich pastor of St. Charles Borromeo, San Diego. His father was a chief executive with Eastman Kodak. Krafts sexual molestations of children have all the earmarks of being a Monarch mind-control abuser. He was protected by the Catholic hierarchy and the system from prosecution for molestation of children. When children are being tortured and traumatized by persons who are respected in society, and when these children see the police and judges protect these people, do you see why this further traumatizes them, and convinces them that there is no hope? Once they lose hope of outside help, their minds are further propelled to obey the commands of (continue with the picture below. The text continues under the girl in the left upper corner. Editor's note)
p_little_girl2
ANGER-MANAGEMENT-PROGRAMMING TRAUMAS
The first type of abuse is prenatal. The second series of abuses occurs from 2 to 4. The third round of programming abuse, is given to the child around 5 to 6 years of age. One of the specific programming abuses is teaching the child slave to redirect their anger away from Papa or Daddy the slave owner. The Papa Bear, Daddy figure in the slaves young life will intentionally provoke the child with teasing to aggravate the child into rage. Exactly what is done to provoke rage within the child will vary, but the result is the same, the child feels rage. The question is then asked, "Are you angry with daddy?" "Yes!" at that point electroshock is applied to the head, toes, tips of fingers, nipples & inside the vagina, or penis by electrodes attached to the child. The child will be brought to the level of rage, and then allowed to cool down for 30 minutes. The childs alters are then via behavior modification & hypnosis taught to redirect their anger toward themselves. "WHEN YOU ARE ANGRY WITH YOUR FATHER, YOU WILL HURT YOURSELF. DO YOU UNDERSTAND? The message will be played over & over & the question "Do you understand?" will be played over & over. The child is shocked until they are compliant. The suicide programming will be layered in. Part of layering in the suicide programming, is to create pain in the right ear via a needle to the ear, with the creation of horrible disorienting sounds, while pulsing lights drive the brain into its alpha programming state. At a certain brainwave state the programming begins with repetitious self-destruct messages. These messages debase the value of the person to reinforce the suicidal destruct messages. After the child has learned that they are to hurt themselves, then they will learn specifically to cut themselves if they get angry at Papa or anyone in the Illuminati family they belong to. After this training, the child will attach subconsciously a fear of pain to the concept of anger toward its Illuminati controllers.
SILENCE PROGRAMMING TRAUMAS to TEACH SILENCE
One way to teach silence is to repeatedly kill persons of all ages in front of the person being programmed while telling the mind-control victim that the people who are being sadistically killed because they talked. However, the "no-talk" lesson will be repeated and embedded in many different fashions for Illuminati mind-controlled slaves. Perhaps a favorite Illuminati method is to expose the victim to watching dental tortures. The viewing can be reinforced by subjecting the victim to some dental tortures themselves. A common dental torture would be to extract the tongue of a live and conscious victim. Then dental tortures are done to the victim, and the intense jaw pain of the torture is linked to tripping the no-talk programming. If the person talks--their jaw hurts and they may pull up the dissociated feelings of seeing a person lose their tongue. This then will be further backed up by training an alter to carry out Russian Roulette if the system talks, and training numerous other alters other types of suicide if the system talks. In other words many back up programs mutually support each other in overkill. Considering that dental torture is used for no-talk programming, it was with dismay that this author discovered that Virtual I-O Co. is now making virtual reality eye glasses for dental work. Seashells and other images are linked to the concept of "no-talk" via programming laid in using methods described elsewhere.
Another "no-talk" program is the "Dont tel me" telephone no talk programming.
The victim has their right hand bound behind their back and then is made to walk on their knees like a dog.
There are a host of these, one example is a needle inserted up the nostril behind the eyeball.
A COMPLIANCE TORTURE -- The Black Slave Chair.
The Black Slave was invented by a Syrian doctor who helped supervise torture, hence its arabic name al-Abd as-Aswad. The victim is strapped to this metal chair. What is unique about this chair is its design & its hole so that a hot skewer can be shoved up the anus. Another device for programming is a harness used as a suspension device. Yet another is an electrofied water bed for turning one in an electric eel." Compliance is also taught by taking an eyeball out of the victim (later replaced), and by dislocating an arm at the shoulder. After this the victim can be wrapped as if in a cacoon within bandages. The supposed treatment for the dislocation, places the victim in sensory deprivation, another trauma.
A TRAUMA TO DEVELOP ANIMAL ALTERS
Helpless humans will be displayed to child victim of mind-control. These helpless humans will be visciously killed by some animal, a lion, a tiger, a snake, a wild dog or whatever. The programming lie emphasized at this point is that it is better to be that particular type of animal than it is to be human. Then the animal is sacrificed and its spirit is ritually joined to the childs alters. Other programming is added to insure the dehuminization process to make certain child alters into particular animals. When finished, the child will contain viscious protector animal alters within their system. The prior example of a programming trauma actually pertains to structuring. The mind-control science of structuring MPD (DID) is discussed in chapter 7. It may be of significance to stress to the reader that traumas come in many shapes. The traumas are not done without some thought. Specific traumas are given for specific desired outcomes. The power and horror of a trauma is hard to gauage. It often results in a type of subconscious adrenlin-rush addiction. The traumas involving sensory deprivation and betrayals of trust can be just as devastating as painful tortures. Sad to say, sometimes for programming purposes all three types may be skillfully combined into one horrendous experience that overwhelms the mind.
A birthday party will be given for the victim. The birthday cake will contain a bean somewhere. It is announced that whoever gets the bean will get a surprise. When someone gets the bean, the mind-control victim finds out that the surprise is that they must take the life of the child who has found the bean. This programming trauma is part of a series of traumas designed to make deeper alters afraid of accepting any gifts from outsiders. The deeper alters are programmed that gifts always come with a sacrifice. Gifts always cost something. Nothing comes free. "SEVER ALL TIES, HAVE NO FRIENDS" are the programming messages. In reality, what Satan is doing with this trauma on a spiritual level is what the British Empire did with small countries. The British would warn small countries, "you are in danger, we will protect you. (The Spirit of Fear says, gifts are dangerous, let me the Spirit of Fear protect you.) When the British moved into small countries like this, they called them protectorates, & then they took over. (The Spirit of Fear, pretending to protect the victim, takes over and the victim develops a deep-seated free-floating phobias towards gifts from anyone. What pretends to protect, actually ends up controlling & enslaving.) As the reader treks through this book, he or she will encounter places where other traumas are discussed, such as tortures via implants, & traumas via rides in amusement parks, & spinning traumas during the structuring for creating alter families from an alter. Finally, the waves of fear created by repeated traumas layer in Spirits of Fear, which form a dark spiritual foundation.
Page 24
p_clothing2.jpg
p_adrenalchrome2
[back]
