# Deeper Insights: APPENDIX 1

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/mindcontrol2/appendix01.htm

APPENDIX 1 - PROGRAMMERS/RESEARCHERS
[back]
DIRTY PSYCHIATRISTS involved with MIND CONTROL
DIRTY RESEARCHERS
DIRTY TAVISTOCK CONTROLLERS
SOME OF FREEMASONRYS MIND-CONTROL PEOPLE
REMOTE VIEWING MIND-RESEARCH
ODDS & ENDS
LIST of PROGRAMMERS (continuation from the list given in Vol. 2)
A FEW random CIA/INTELLIGENCE MEN involved WITH MIND-CONTROL
Anton LaVey--Profile of a trauma-based mind-control programmer
WHAT TO LOOK FOR.
MICHAEL AQUINO, a military/cult mind-control programmer
HIS CAREER
PERSONAL HISTORY.
UNDERSTANDING The CHURCH OF SET
UNDERSTANDING SOME OF AQUINOS PROGRAMMING.
BACKGROUND
SEQUELAE OF ABUSE
The Illuminati set up the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation to direct some of the mind-control its research, and its financial affairs. Harold Abramson became one of its leaders. One of the Macy Foundations directors has been military intelligence chief and relative to Winston Churchill, Gen. Marlborough Churchill. Both Winston and Marlborough are of the corrupt Illuminati Marlborough family.
DIRTY PSYCHIATRISTS involved with MIND CONTROL
Dr. Van O. Austin, Utah
Dr. George Brock Chisholm, Tavistock
Dr. Lawrence D. Ginsberg
Dr. Robert G. Heath
Dr. Paul Hoch, Scot. Rite Mason
Dr. Robert Howell, Utah
Dr. Nathan Kline, Columbia Univ.
Dr. Nolan D.C. Lewis, dir NY State Psyc Inst. & Scottish Rite Mason
Dr. Amedeo S. Marrazzi, Missouri Inst. of Psychology
Dr. Sudha Tayi
Dr. Ross Adley, formerly of the Brain Research Center at Univ. of So. CA, now at Loma Linda Univ. Med. School, CIA, worked on ELF waves and the brain, and EM radiation.
Dr. Emmanuel Donchin, head of Psyc. Dept. at Urbana-Champaigns Univ. of IL, worked on thought-controlled machines.
Dr. Wayne O. Evans--U.S. Mil. Stress Lab, Natick, Mass
Dr. Dave Morgan, Lockhead-Sanders, worked on the syntel
Dr. Arthur Upton, head National Cancer Inst.
W. R. Byon
Richard Crossman
H. V. Dicks
Ronald Lippert
Brig. Gen. Dr. John Rawlings Rees
SOME OF FREEMASONRYS MIND-CONTROL PEOPLE
Dr. Robert Hanna Felix--33°, dir of psyc. research for Scott. Rite, oversaw the Lexington KT programming facility
Dr. Franz J. Kailman-jewish Nazi who did research at NY State Psyc. Inst. while at Columbia Univ.
Seymour Solomon Kety- exec. of Scot. Rites psychiatry experiments, & nat. dir. of American Eugenics Soc.
Winfred Overholser- overall leader of Masonic research into mind-control, sup. of St. Elizabeths Hosp. a mental hospital in Wash. D.C.
Private organizations doing research into RV in the U.S. are run by "retired" intelligence people.
Joe McMoneagle -- "retired Intelligence officer" left govt.s Stargate to set up "private" RV research.
· Hillary Clinton, who is a Grand Dame in the Illuminati, started in the early 1960s a group of mind-controlled slaves which is called Royal Project. She reportedly exercises power in the White House via 16 staffers who have been given authority over the different departments of government. One mind-control victim claims that one of Clintons talks gave triggers for him to kill. One of Clintons never mentioned cronies, who works closely with him, and travels to meet him at various locations is Charles Whitmore of Arkansas.
· One of the big areas where a great number of mind-controlled slaves congregate are MUFON meetings. An example of a slave handler, who is also a programmed slave is Dea Martin, who tells people she has worked for the government and who does aura readings. She controls her sidekick Jim Courant, a commercial airline pilot. An example of a programmed multiple with "alien" programming was serial murderer Robert Moody. Film taken of Moody in jail shows his MPD (DID).
· Kleinknecht was National Director of NASA during the Moon Flights when lots of mind-control programming was being done by both the Masonic lodges and NASA. C. Fred Kleinknecht was not only director of NASA but the Sec. General of the Scottish Rite 33°.
· The Doors Singer Jim Morrison used the occult code name Lizard King and The Exterminating Angel. He was involved with mind control.
· Col. John Alexander, (also called Doctor) who has been living in Arizona, and who has been in charge of making psychic warriors for the U.S. Army, has the inside reputation of being the Illuminatis top mind-control programmer.
· James Monroe. It turns out that there have been two James Monroes involved in programming. The first one was bn. perhaps in the 1920s, was 6 tall, and he was the CIA man who set up the Society for the Investigation of Human Ecology, a CIA front for mind-control, He had a very polite front in spite of being a sadistic programmer. The second one was James Monroe Martinez, bn in 1938, 6 tall, who was busy setting up underground bases such as the one at Los Alamos under the cover of working for GE. One report said he died in 1965. His mother owned a Catholic half-way house in Albuquerque, NM.
· There are all kinds of events happening around us that show evidence of mind-control. One example, is the case of a Catholic man quitting the monastery and becoming a NASA physicist.
· Part of the success of the mind-control lays within their child procurement abilities. The corrupt Finders group, which consisted of FBI/CIA men who helped procure children, were led by Marion Pettie, who was called "the Stroller" and "the Game Caller" by Finder members.
* The establishment allowed CIA programmer Dr. Louis Joyon "Jolly" West to examine Jack Ruby in his jail cell. When Ruby refused to admit to insanity, West labelled him "paranoid and mentally ill" and Ruby was placed on pills, which were called "happy pills". Ruby believed he was being poisoned by the establishment.
· Part of the success of the mind-control lays in the fact that there is such a widespread network of pedophiles. On Channel 5, May 6, 1996, during a show "Priestly Sins," it was stated that "at least 3000 [catholic] priests are sexual abusers of children." The program stated that 600 priests have been reported to law enforcement within the last few years for complaints of sexual abuse of children. The show stated that catholics are silenced and punished if they speak up. Priests who speak out are penalized. For instance in 1985, a senior official at the Vaticans embassy in Wash. D.C. discovered rampant sexual abuse and wrote a report on how it should be dealt with responsibly. The church promptly buried the report.
LIST of PROGRAMMERS (continuation from the list given in Vol. 2)
Stephen Aldrich
Morse Allen
Dr. Charles L. Brown
Col. Campbell
Dr. Cleghon
Hillary Clinton
Jack F. (Uncle Jack) & Jill Coogan
Sen. Alan Cranston
"Gen." Earman
Don Ebner
Dr. Charles Evans
Dr. Tom Fox
Floyd & Mildred Frost & dau. Carol Frost Buls
Dr. George S. Glass
Dr. Goldshe
L. Wilson Greene
Dr. James Hamilton
Dr. Robert G. Heath
Richard Helms
Dr. Paul Hoch
Dr. Hyde
Dr. Korim (sp. not known)
Dr. Lowenstein
Mateland
Dr. Gary E. Miller
Dr. Moore
Dr. Martin Orne
Dr. Rosenberg
Dr. Woolsworth Russell
Cpt. George White (nickname/cover name Stormy)
Dr. Robert E. White
A FEW random CIA/INTELLIGENCE MEN involved WITH MIND-CONTROL
John Bacon
Tennant (Pete) Bagley
Col. Matt Baird
Bill Brown
Richard L. Conolly, Jr.
Burt Courage
Cong. Bud Cramer
Jerry Droller
Robert Feldman
Jim Ferguson
J. Peter Grace
Cynthia Hausman
Richard Helms
William J. Hood
Jack Kindschi
John McCone
Charles McKay
Cord Meyer
Comm. John R. Miller
Herbert Quinde
Wade Thomas
Anton LaVey--Profile of a trauma-based mind-control programmer
When someone coined the phrase "dynamite comes in small packages" the phrase was an apt description of Anton LaVey. (Released photographs of LaVey prevent people from realizing how short his is.) In a personal letter which Anton LaVey wrote, "With my swastika, Im strong. My Satanic amulets give me power. Im not a misfit anymore, with pimples and a heart murmur and flat feet."
Anton LaVey is famous for having started the Church of Satan. He chose Walpurgisnacht, April 30, 1966 to start the Church of Satan in San Francisco. Previously he had began holding midnight magic seminars in 1960. He and his occult friends held Magic Circle meetings until he founded the Church. His Church of Satan is officially recognized by the U.S. government and the military.
He turned an old Victorian House, at 6114 California St., San Francisco into what has been called "the Black Castle". It was for years indeed black on the outside, and LaVey would drive a hearse. Anton LaVey kept a full grown 400 lb. Nubian lion named Togare from Ethiopia at his house (which was allowed both inside & outside) that scared the neighbours when it roared. He also has kept a black leopard.
LaVey loves to play his Hammond organ music in his black castle as if his house were a stereotypical horror house. Inside the house are rooms used for rituals, occult books including books on cannibalism, coffins, a maze of secret passageways, and LaVeys private saloon called the Den of Iniquity. He called his satanic covens "Grottos."
This author is aware that the Church of Satan got Grottos going in the following cities: Amsterdam (Magistralis Grotto, Neth.), Boston, Chicago, Dayton, Denver, Detroit, Edmonton (Can), Indianapolis, Kansas City, Las Vegas, London (Eng.), Los Angeles, Louisville, New York, Paris (Fr.), Phoenix, Portland (OR), St. Petersburg, Seattle, Silverton (OR), and Vancouver (Can).
Undoubtedly, there are other groups, as well as a scattered following of individuals. The Church of Satan has had many Ph.D.s. The church has had a high percentage of professionals such as: doctors, lawyers, teachers, former FBI agents, IBM executives. Cult underground film maker Kenneth Anger was a member of the Church of Satan. An ex-high priest of the Church of Satan told this author how he was recruited for the position of high priest. He was promised anything he wanted in life, any woman, any money etc.--and they made good on much of that promise. As high priest, he micromanaged everyones lives in his grotto. His people came to him for permission and advice and orders for everything. It wasnt just mind-control, it was total control of their lives. But giving orders and micromanaging the lives of many people became a drag.
One of Cathy OBriens abusers was LaVeys High Priest Merle Kilgore, father of Steve Kilgore. LaVey (bn. April 11, 1930) comes from a Rumanian bloodline from Translyvania. As he grew up he love the story of Frankenstein. As a teenager he loved the occult. He dropped out of high school to be part of the Clyde Beatty circus.
LaVey likes to work from dusk to dawn. Like his ex-right hand man Michael Aquino, another mind-control programmer, both LaVey and Aquino are fascinated with the Nazis. (Michael Aquinos wife Lillith Sinclair was formerly the head of the Church of Satans NY Lillith Grotto.) LaVey sports a Van Dyke beard, and a head shaved in the same fashion of executioners during the middle ages. Most of his followers never see him. Although LaVey has gotten wide press coverage, thanks to William Randolph Hearsts newspapers and his publishing companies like Avon, LaVey is a very secretive person and very rarely shows himself to even his high priests, or even talks to them.
His Church is a collection of self-sustaining dictators. He exaggerates the numbers of his church, apparently by claiming people who come in contact with his church. Before we discuss more about his organization and their rituals, lets touch on his role as a trauma-based mind-control programmer. Anton LaVey has openly advocated the creation of android humans. Even more startling is a music video shown on TV in which Anton LaVey personally gives a graphic description of how Anton LaVey intends to make the listener into his "mind-controlled sex slave". The audacity of this is mind-boggling. But then LaVey has tended to be more frank than other occult figures. The approach seems to be "Ill shock you so boldly, that you will not believe what I am saying, but will think its an act."
Taking inspiration from Orwells 1984 LaVey wrote, "Up is down, pleasure is pain, darkness is light, slavery is freedom, madness is sanity..." This is actually the language that is used at times in the mind-control programming! Anton LaVey has been the mind-control handler/programmer of a number of Hollywood actors & actresses, including Jayne Mansfield and Marilyn Monroe, who both serviced him as sexual slaves. Jayne Mansfield, who was a High Priestess in the Church of Satan, shocked people when on a USO tour in Vietnam she asked for a satanic religious service. Sam Brody, one of Mansfields handlers, had a bitter struggle over who would control Jayne, and one of LaVeys followers claimed to have tampered with Brodys car. Anton LaVey has also been the programmer of his daughters such as Karla and Zeena and his son. An ex-member of a satanic cult in the Ozarks said, "If LaVey says jump, you jump." Some of his followers call him Uncle Anton" as if they were programmed by him. LaVeys cover is that he is simply a showman, a buffoon. His cover has fooled many people, the truth is the man is not to be trusted and has a lot more evil power than people have realized.
LaVey has always had what some describe as a "warm relationship" with police. In fact, he was on the police force in the 1950s as a photographer. The police were reluctant to question LaVey about the death of Jayne Mansfield (4/19/33-6/28/67) who was one of LaVeys high priestesses and slaves in his Church of Satan. Her color was pink. Anton LaVey has been seen going onto military programming bases, and was at the NORAD area in Colorado for a while.
Dick Russell interviewed Anton LaVey with his approval. Russell wrote up the interview in "The Satanist Who Wants To Rule the World", (Argosy, June 1975, p. 41) that the Anton LaVey believes that he and an elite force of Satanists will rule the world. LaVey took an obscure occult tract from the 30s and some thoughts from HG. Wells book The Island of Dr. Moreau for a ritual. From this, he came up with a ritual which includes these stanzas:
"Man is God. We are men. We are gods. God is man."
When the reader is done reading this book, he will see how this ritual can fit in perfectly with trauma-based total mind-control. In fact, when people attend the Church of Satans secret rituals, once people enter the ritual room two hooded guards prevent people from exiting prematurely through the closed doors. The rituals have been reported as being very disgusting. It well publicized that LaVey uses naked human altars for rituals, after photos were published of his satanic baptism of his 3 year old-daughter Zeena in May 1967. Does the Church of Satan involve summoning demons and worshipping Satan. Yes, most definitively. For instance, here are the some of the words of an important invocation used by his satanic rituals:
In nomine Dei nostri Satanas Luciferi excelsi! In the name of Satan, the Ruler of the earth, the King of the world, I command the forces of darkness to bestow their Infernal power upon me!...By all the Gods of the Pit, I command that these things of which I speak shall come to pass! Come forth and answer your names by manifesting my desires! Hail Satan!"
LaVeys book The Compleat Witch (NY Dodd, Mead, 1971) p. 266 advocates that one achieve self-understanding and "embrace and cherish the demon within him." In LaVeys book The Satanic Witch (LA: Feral House, 1969) he states that a witch to be successful must make a pact with the devil. His church loves to chant "Hail Satan". They like Crowleys law, Do What thou Wilt. LaVey & some of his members teach that at the core of each person is a demon waiting to be released.
LaVey loves Black Masses and desecrating anything sacred to Christians. LaVey urges people in his books and talks to bring out their "darkest" urging. He hints at human sacrifice in his Satanic Bible, by having a section on it, but is careful not to go too far out on a limb publicly. He always publicly denies that Satanists should do human sacrifices. One of the doctors of the San Francisco Church of Satan is said to have brought LaVeys church a severed human leg from the hospital he worked at, which was basted in Triple Sec and eaten by LaVey and his group. Most of the rituals are done in secret, there are no way to confirm rumours that they eat human flesh, but knowing the mentality of some of his church members, they would do it just to check it out as a new experience.
Illuminatus William Randolph Hearst gave Anton LaVey some big help. His Avon Publishing published his Satanic Bible in 1969 (it was first released in Dec. 69). Since then it has reportedly gone through over 30 printings. LaVeys next book The Satanic Rituals also was published by Hearst Avon in 1972. It talks about the power that blood sacrifices give the magician. Hearsts papers also gave him publicity.
LaVey is always thinking of ways of promoting his theology. Years ago, he had a topless witches Sabbath on San Franciscos North Beach. In 1990, the Church of Satan went into the Heavy Metal music business. The Church of Satan puts out a monthly magazine The Cloven Hoof which for most members is their main indirect communication from Magus LaVey.
One of the most asked questions is, "Fritz, what does one look for?" One of the best covers for Illuminati kingpins is religion. Another is philanthropy. Philanthropy ties in with Illuminati beliefs that your good deeds must balance your evil deeds to gain power--its a Gnostic cabalistic view point. The Illuminati kingpins are great philanthropists even though much of their philanthropy is self-serving.
Perhaps giving an example of a family that is suspect due to their circumstances would help illustrate this point. There is such a family which has gone almost undetected for years, and although some people fear them, they have not been reported on. Just because the police place a person on the suspect list, does not mean that the person is guilty. Everyone deserves the right to treated as innocent, until proven guilty.
One of the groups that concern this author are the rich ultra-secretive ultraconservative Talmudic Jewish groups. This exclusive group keep their children away from contact with the outside world and send them to exclusive, semi-secret schools. An example of this would be the Reichmanns of Canada, who are billionaires, and have had some connections to the Rothschilds of England. Its not that this author has problems with people observing their religious beliefs strictly (or in the ultra-conservative Talmudic groups, "ultra-strictly" better describes their extreme strictness). Its great that people have standards of belief and conduct. However, the author sees the same patterns of legalism and secrecy that pervade Old Order Amish groups, -- except in the case of families like the Reichmanns, the potential for mischief is great, because they are not involved with milking cows, but international banking.
While most people are simply ignorant about the Amish but are not fearful of them, people who know rich billionaires like the Reichmanns scared to death of them and a heavy cloak of secrecy envelopes them. Renée Reichmann was the great matriarch of the Reichmanns of Canada who are Talmidim Chakham, followers of the Talmud. They are not Hasidic. She is a descendent from King David, and King Solomon. She lives in Toronto. Her great-grandfather, a Gestetner, was one of the wealthiest men in Hungary. Most of her family lives in Montreal, two of her sons live in Toronto. Her children are Eva, Edward, Louis, Albert, Paul & Ralph. Samuel Reichmann is the father of the dynasty in Canada.
In 1929, his egg business made him rich. He learned how to work finances and currency exchanges between different countries to make money by tricks to circumvent legalities. Their family has also gotten Rothschild financial help, and during W.W. II they worked with Koppel, who ran the Rothschilds City Bank in Gibraltar. Their family did a great many things during W.W. II from the trading center Tangier in North Africa. Tangier was located in a position to trade between the Axis and the Allies. Also during W.W. II, under the direction of the Bank of Spain the Reichmanns and others kept the Spanish currency artificially high, by creating an artificial demand for the currency. The Reichmanns made perhaps millions of dollars on currency exchanges during the war years.
Don Eduardo Reichman was the administrator of del Real Estate & Commercial Bank of Tangier. Eva Reichmann married a British merchant banker. Albert Reichmann is President of Olympia & York Developments Ltd. Paul sits on the board of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC) & on the board of Rockefeller Center Properties, Inc. (a real estate investment trust for some of the Rockefeller properties in Manhattan.) Albert sits on the board of the Mt. Sinai Hospital in Toronto, and on the board of Landmark Lands Co., Inc. which owns some of the great golf courses in Palm Springs, CA. The Ontario Ministry of Consumer & Commercial Relations has offices in buildings owned by them. They tried to buy banks in Israel. Their sect of Judaism has a Yesodeh Hatorah school for ultra-orthodox boys. Their children have very little exposure to outside world. Their children do not have access to newspapers, television, or radios. Ralph and Paul were privately educated in England at Gateshead. Its a perfect setup for trauma-based mind-control.
Samuel Reichmann is known among his kind of Jewish sect as a philanthropist who supports Torah institutions. These Talmudic families consider pedigrees and genealogies very important, which is very much in line with the Illuminatis mind-set. The reason that this family is mentioned is that the Reichmanns havent been mentioned in my previous books, and the circumstances that pervade the family have the earmarks for what this book is about. It may be that this family of billionaires consists of only wonderful people, but it is a given that most of the readers would be considered animals by these strict Talmudists, who would never allow any of us of the wrong bloodlines to be accepted into their "in" group. Obviously the Rothschilds are of the right bloodline.
Likewise, international bankers tend to be a Machiavellian clique, (that is not this authors opinion, but the opinion of honest hearted person who have ran in those circles.) Why has this clique accepted a family like the Reichmanns from such a narrow-minded judgemental sect into their fold? This paragraph is not written toward anyone specifically, it simply calling our attention a family of billionaires that no one knows about, which lives in veil of secrecy, and a religious setting that would make mind-control as easy as imaginable. (The Reichmanns would deny whats been written here.)
There are victims of mind-control coming in to therapists from conservative Jewish groups, and at least some of these are Illuminati. The religious front could just as easily be Christian. Some of the readers of Vol. 2 reported back that the book helped them unveil the religious fronts that had helped derail their suspicions of puzzling situations that dont add up. The next programmer to be written about uses the front of being a leader of a Satanic Cult. I say front, because Michael Aquino has created a public image for his satanic cult, and hides behind that public image. Anytime someone wants to reveal the ugly truth about him, he hollers to the effect that he is being persecuted by a wild witch-hunt. He hollers that people are just having a knee-jerk reaction to his satanic occultism, and that he is really safe.
MICHAEL AQUINO, a military/cult mind-control programmer
An OVERVIEW. Michael Aquino has been a trauma-based total mind-control (Monarch) programmer for the DIA Psychological Warfare Division. He is also a prominent public satanist. A photo of Aquino in his military uniform is in the center picture section of Carl A. Raschkes Painted Black (San Francisco: Harper & Row, 1990.) Other books contain various pictures of him in satanic garb with ritual items. Most of the programmers have chosen to remain in the background, Aquino with his enormous ego, has chosen otherwise.
Senator Byrd (KKK leader & Freemason) and Aquino have done a great deal together over the years, and have been like a team. With the legal expertise of U.S. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, Aquino established the Temple of Set, a satanic cult as a legal religion recognized by the U.S. government and the U.S. military. This exclusive cult was designed to give these unchallenged criminals of the Network:
A. a legal organization whose membership consists of a mixed group of slaves and handlers, B. a market outlet for their illegal drugs and porn, C. a good public, legal, openly satanic front with which to attack all media coverage of ritual abuse.
The controlled media could now excuse itself from covering ritual abuse, by saying that they had been threatened to be sued by the Church of Set. Although the Church of Set has had the entire power of the establishment protecting it from investigation and criminal prosecution, the climate of control over the United States is still not complete enough for Satanists to openly get away with their mind-control. By identifying itself so intimately with the Church of Set, U.S. military intelligence has given the world an open trail of clues to help whistle-blowers expose the mind-control that has been going on throughout most of this century. Michael Aquino openly associated with men like President Ronald Reagan at the White House, again giving us the leverage to expose the secret satanic philosophies of Americas leadership. Most of these men lead double lives, and due to the mind-control it has been hard to establish (except for eye-witnesses) that they are secret Satanists.
The army has known about Michael Aquinos Satanism from the beginning, clear back in 1968. Aquino (and some of his satanic lieutenants) received a High security clearance (reportedly level 6), and he served with the World Affairs Council.
A dozen leaders within the Temple of Set were Military Intelligence officers (for instance, Capt. Willie Browning and Intelligence Officer Dennis Mann). Aquino wrote "From PSYOP to Mind War: The Psychology of Victory" published in the establishments prestigious Military Review magazine. Aquino writes in this "From PSYOP to MindWar..." article, "...we shall create MindWar. The term is harsh and fear-inspiring, and so it should be: It is a term of attack and victory..." Aquino is a sadistic programmer, who loves to inflict pain on others.
Aquino has a doctorate in political science. He has two masters degrees (one is in political science, Univ. of CA, Santa Barbara, where he also got his doctorate). Aquino is Airborne qualified. He studied at the U.S. National Defense University. He was in Military Intelligence in Vietnam & Germany, and the Presideo. He was a Defense Intelligence Agency attache, and taught political science on the university level. He reported directly to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and worked one on one with the Secretary of Defense Cheney. He is a pseudo-intellectual whose ego and astronomically-large pride gets in the way of real learning.
He was the former national commander of the Eagle Scouts Honor Society. (The Boys Scout system is heavily influenced by Freemasons and contains unfortunately some perverts that try to take advantage of the system for their own perversions.) There was a massive coverup in the Presideo Day Care scandal in which Aquino was involved in. There were hundreds of witnesses of the abuse. The military and intelligence put strong pressure on the San Francisco police to get them to back down from doing anything to Aquino. During that time period, the Pentagon transferred Aquino from the Presideo back to the National Defense University, Wash., D.C. (And later he wound up in the St. Louis area.) During the investigation of the Temple of Set, the FBI claimed they had no record of such an organization. The military at the Presideo, had a spokesperson tell the press that Aquino was a good soldier who did his job. Aquino hides behind his religion. In his Scroll of Set Aquino accuses the father of the girl who pointed him out as her abuser as persecuting him because he is a Satanist. Aquino writes, "Also relevant is his profession as a Christian clergyman; I certainly doubt that he would have made such an outrageous accusation against any Lieutenant Colonel who was not known to be a prominent Satanist." (p. 4 Oct. XXII)
The truth that everyone will realize on their own is that any loving, caring father when he discovers some pervert has severely sexually molested and tortured his daughter is going to go to the police no matter what religion the villain belongs to. In 1985, U.S. Army major Grady McMurtry of Berkeley, CA and Kenneth Grants OTO got into a legal battle over who was the actual chartered OTO lodge in the U.S.
Col. Michael Aquino of U.S. Military Intelligence watched the legal battle, and wrote these comments in the Scroll of Set Vol. XII no. 5, Oct. 86, "While sitting in the courtroom watching Judge Legge preside sternly over the slug-out, I couldnt help wondering if he had any idea he was ruling on which group had legal claim to anal sex as the supreme religious sacrament in the United States." Witnesses report that one of Aquinos favorite types of sex is necrophilia, which of course can also be carried out with alters that are in a death state.
Michaels father was an Italian Catholic. A Canadian police document that this author has indicates that Michaels mother was Betty Ford. Michaels wife is Lillith Sinclair. Besides being a Satanic High Priest & Ipsissimus, and an Military Intelligence Officer in Psychological warfare, Michael was a stockbroker for a while. In 1970, he joined the Church of Satan, and led a grotto in Kentucky. Michael gave lectures on Satanism at the University of Louisville, and used his house in Louisville for rituals. Aquino claimed to be anointed as the Second Beast, the one that Aleister Crowley prophesied in The Book of the Law. (See Aquinos The Book of Coming Forth by Night.) While LaVey shaved his head and wore horns to look the part, Aquino cut his hair in a widows peak, plucked his eyebrows, and had a 666 tattooed under his scalp.
UNDERSTANDING The CHURCH OF SET
His Temple of Set was set up using ranks borrowed straight from the secret Illuminati--Priests or Priestesses, Adepts, Masters (Magus or Maga), and Ipsissimus or Ipsissima. (The Order of the Golden Dawn also uses the rank of ipsissimus. His cult uses new terminology such as Setian for Satanist. Its a common tactic of cults to use new terms to separate the cult followers from the external world.
In Aquinos bi-monthly periodical The Scroll of Set (Vol. XIII, No. 5, Oct. XXII, 1987, pg. 2 Aquino states, "Christianity is finished as a serious contender for the minds of intelligent humans." Aquinos brand of Satanism attempts to pre-date Christian ideas and goes make to Egyptian Hermetic magic and mythology for its symbolism.
Aquino also studied the Black Order and the SS in Germany and attempts to incorporate Nazi occultism and symbology into his satanic orders. The Temple of Set advertised in occult magazines, computer bulletin boards, and ads in the San Francisco Yellow pages. When the Temple of Set expanded to Britain, David Austen from Kent, England, became Aquinos High Priest in Britain.
To let the reader see just one more example of collaboration behinds the scenes of the Network, a Jesuit member of the Temple of Set continued teaching at a Catholic School after he joined the Temple. Aquino coined the word Xeper (pronounced keffer) to mean the process of evolving a higher consciousness. Scientifically conducted research by Graphoanalysts has determined that a preoccupation with xs means a preoccupation with death. Aquino and some other Satanists show their preoccupation with death by their fascination for words that begin with the letter "x". Aquinos girlfriend Linda Blood has supposedly left the Church of Set and was at a conference that this author attended. She was very antagonistic toward the victims of mind control at the conference, and acted in every way like a cult plant. She was very disruptive of what the victims of mind-control were trying to gain at the conference.
He has written in favour of black magic and left hand path, but since most people dont know what black magic & left hand path is, buzz words. Aquino stated on Ophrays show that Satanists work "for the good of humankind." How? By exploring the "freedom of the will." The undercurrents of his writings in his publication The Crystal Tablet of Set is that he and his followers have power while the rest of us are basically wimps. Witnesses report how actual human sacrifices have been alternated with faked sacrifices in the Temple of Set so that it is difficult for witnesses to tell the real from the fantasy. The Temple of Set, like the Illuminati have strict rules that members are not allowed to keep incriminating items. Their precautions to go undetected resemble the Illuminatis precautions.
UNDERSTANDING SOME OF AQUINOS PROGRAMMING.
Like so many programmers, Aquino flies all over the country, and has victimized people in numerous states and military bases. Michael Aquinos programming is standard military-type programming. Aquino puts in his own spirit guide into people. He likes to use his own version of Star Wars, with himself as Darth Vader, for his programming scripts. He programs in sexual and death (suicide) programs--such as the Rivers of Blood suicide protection program, and all the rest of the various types of programs.
His Temple of Set functions as a programming vehicle. The rituals are designed to break the practitioners grip on reality and logic and take them into the world of visualization, and creativity. Members of Set take on a magical name, they attempt in rituals to become another persona, which is a magical double of the person called "KA". And this ka work is done on the astral plane. Aquino is friends with Paul Kantner who is part of the mind-control scene and who put out an obvious programming song entitled White Rabbit.
In the Vol. 2 book, the significance of Leviathan was covered. The Church of Set has an Order of Leviathan headed by James Lewis VIº of Baxley, GA. Michael Aquino is familiar with all the standard programming, the Wizard of Oz and the other fairy tale themes. He is very proficient at programming, having many years of experience. In 1981, he used Cathy OBrien to make two HOW TO films for training military officers in the skills needed to program slaves. These two training films were entitled "How to Divide a Personality" and "How to Create a Sex Slave." (See Cathy OBriens monograph "Dick Cheney and Reagans Hands-On Mind Control Demonstrations" written/released 6/92.) President Reagan respected Aquino and encouraged the military to learn his programming techniques.
Aquino likes to work with Catholic mind-control victims. He is proficient at manipulating the concept of hell and of doing satanic reversals like the Black Mass.
On the following pages are a little of the paper trail on Mind-control Programmer Michael Aquino:
· Some favorite photos of Michael Aquino in satanic garb.
· A two page letter of Aquino showing his fascination with Darth Vader. He rewrote his own version of Star Wars to use as a programming script. Programmers are given the freedom to decide what scripts they want to use.
· last page of a letter by Michael Aquino showing his preoccupation for Hitler and Nazi things.
· two pages showing the trauma that therapists discovered in children that Aquino had sexually traumatized at the Presideo Day Care Center. As readers are aware the Judicial system never pursued the case against Aquino.
· A page from the police report where the girl who claimed she had been sexually molested by Aquino was interviewed.
p_aquino.jpg
p_xeper-2.jpg
....... of women, is as much an act of violence as it is a sexual violation, it is argued here that the abuse reverberates in a chain reaction of violence-related responses in the child victim, in his or her family, and in the mental health system that is meant to serve the child. The Presidio case was made particularly poignant by the setting (the U.S. Army) and by the necessity for the victims families to face simultaneously the abuse of their children and the failure of goodness of the government that serves them.
At the Presidio Child Development Center. in 1986-87. a single incident of suspected child sexual abuse led to a full-scale investigation during which all the parents were informed that their children may have been victims of sexual abuse at the Center and were invited to come to the armys Letterman Medical Center if they observed any unusual physical or emotional symptoms in their children. Here the children received medical and psychological evaluations by U.S. Army representatives.
Over time, the army, the FBI, and the San Francisco Police Department became involved in the investigations. Accusations of ritualistic abuse were made against a teacher (G) and a lieutenant colonel ("Shamby") and his wife (Mikey): Shamby was also a high priest of a satanic sect. It was attested that children had reported group sexual activities with other children and with a doll: playing games" in Mr. Gs bed: and being brought to a house with a black room, where sexual activities of an occult nature ensued with Shamby and Mikey. Both boys and girls reported acts of fondling and penetration by Mr. G. their teacher. Clearly, this was a newsworthy event and it was quickly picked up by the media across the country.
Three years later, the army had made out-of-court financial settlements with the families of the alleged victims and the teacher was reported dead of AIDS. This case-study analysis is based on the authors participation as an evaluator of and psychotherapist for the girls (boys were assigned to male therapists) who were alleged victims. The authors involvement began two years after the occurrence of the alleged events when a team of lawyers was filing suits against the army on behalf of alleged victims and their families. Using process notes and evaluation records from the assessment and treatment of two of the girls (aged 3-4 when they were allegedly abused) and their families, along with anecdotal evidence from other cases, this ar-tide addresses the consequences and sequelae of institutional molestation for the child, the father, the mother, and the family system (consultation with therapists of the male victims revealed similar overall findings). More specifically, it underscores the unique features of sex and violence in the nursery when the perpetrator of the abuse is that historic symbol of patriarchal protection, the military establishment.
· All the victimized children who received a medical evaluation tested negative for the HIV virus at the time of their initial evaluation. Recent research, however, indicates a possible incubation period during which negative test results can be found.
Finkelhor and Browne (1985) proposed that the experience of sexual abuse should be analyzed in relation to four trauma-causing factors: traumatic sexualization. betrayal, powerlessness, and stigmatization. In addition, they recommended assessing both the preabuse and postabuse situations in determining the psychological effects on the child victims. In the case of extrafamilial abuse, this model is applicable to the victims families, as well as to the victims themselves. According to Finkelhor and Brownes model, the preschool child who is a victim of sexual abuse is at risk of severe levels of trauma, of which, in addition to the obvious sexual traumatization. betrayal and powerlessness are particularly salient factors.
Often, when a child enters a day care center, it is his or her first contact with the institutional world outside the family. At a young age, the child is asked to trust a stranger for care, succor, and daily guidance. The child relies on the parents assurance that this unfamiliar situation is safe and healthy. Given such assurance, the child typically allows an attachment to develop with the day care provider or teacher and literally puts him- or herself in that persons hands.
At the Presidio, it was that very person who victimized the children, first by violating them sexually and then by warning them that, if they ever told their parents great harm would come to them and their families, and that they would probably never see their parents again. The majority of the children did not tell their parents, who did not find out about the situation until the Center sent a letter warning them that their children may have been abused.
As with incest, the preabuse situation in which the child has trusted an adult who then accosts that child creates great emotional and cognitive confusion ("If this person is caring for me and I am totally dependent on him, he couldnt possibly be doing anything bad"). In addition, it engenders strong feelings of betrayal when the child comes to recognize that this person did do something bad to him or her and that mother and father did nothing to stop it. The severity of the trauma for children at the Presidio was immediately manifested in clear-cut symptoms. Before the abuse was exposed, parents had already noticed the following changes in their children: vaginal discharge, genital soreness, rashes, fear of the dark, sleep disturbances, nightmares, sexually provocative language ("Go down on the doll-69." "Get it up the butt," "Lick the dolls twat," "Hump on the doll"), and sexually inappropriate behavior (a four-year-old girl grabbing her older male cousins genitals).
In addition, the children were exhibiting other radical changes in behavior. including temper outbursts, sudden mood shifts, and poor impulse control. All these behavioral symptoms are to be expected in preschool children who have been molested (Haugaard & Reppucci. 1988: Mac Vicar. 1987: Sink. 1988). Of particular note were the childrens responses when they were first asked by their parents if something bad had happened to them at the day care center. One child screamed and ran out of the room. Another whimpered, "Theyre going to hurt you if I tell," and still another said, "I cant tell, or theyll kill you."
Only later, after they were reassured that they would be protected, were the children able to report that "Mr. G touched my private parts," "Mr. G had me touch his penis," "We passed around a doll and were told to touch the doll in certain parts," "Mr. G took me to his house to see his beds," "I had to do something embarrassing in front of all the kids."
These responses highlight the second salient feature of the childrens trauma: their sense of powerlessness. The children had felt powerless to tell their parents because of the grave harm they believed would coma to their families if they did. This was not paranoid or fabricated fear a trusted adult, a representative of the U.S. Army, had actually told them so. But, left to the devices of their own fantasy lives at the age of magical thinking, the children elaborated on these rears, sometimes to a bizarre degree. Their only choice was to channel the anxiety and trauma into formation of symptoms, until their parents, on the basis of the warning letter, began to question them on the matter. Only later, once the children entered the mental health system, did the full cycle of trauma, terror, and rage unfold. This phenomenon can best be understood by tracking the children and their families through the postabuse process, from discovery to treatment.
p_presidio.jpg
[back]
