# Deeper Insights 3: THE USE OF DRUGS

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/mindcontrol2/part03.htm

CHAPTER 3. SCIENCE NO. 3 The USE OF DRUGS
[back]
ADMINISTRATION OF DRUGS FOR PROGRAMMING
MORE PROGRAMMING DRUGS (these were not listed in the Vol.2 Formula book)
STABILIZING THE PROGRAMMING
EXTENSIVE RESEARCH DONE TO INFLUENCE HUMAN MEMORY BY DRUGS
The BASIC PHASES of MEMORY
WHAT the MIND-CONTROL PROGRAMMERS USE to MANIPULATE memory.
HIDING THE CODES
PROGRAMMING WITH LSD-25 (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide)
CHEMICALLY TRIGGERING NATURAL INSTINCTUAL DRIVES
SEXUAL STIMULATION-PROGRAMMING
THEIR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE (SYNTHESIZE) BRAIN CHEMICALS TO MAKE MIND-CONTROL DRUGS
The USE OF DRUGS
IN REVIEW
The science of Pharmacology (drugs) has given the Programmers a vast array of mind-altering and body-altering drugs. Some of the drugs are not used to directly alter the mind, but to change the body (make the skin burn), or make the person vomit, or some other reaction that can be harnessed to further their nefarious programming goals.
DRUG RESEARCH
One of the sites which has done research/programming into MPD and drug action on the brain has been Bethesda, MD where Dr. Irwin J. Kopin was Chief of the Laboratory of Clinical Science, at the National Institute of Mental Health. He was active in research into how drugs can affect the mind.
CLASSIFYING MIND-DRUGS
When this author studied differential equations, and higher mathematical it became clear that everything can be reduced to a mathematical explanation. Sometimes a mathematical notation is easier and clearer, than other explanations. This author suggests that drugs that affect the mind could be classified on three scales:
Scale X: the wakefulness or arousal scale, which runs from a coma, to asleep, to alert, to hyperalert
Scale Y: the attitude, or affect scale, that is one's manner of feelings, responses etc., running on a scale from suicidal and depressed to euphoric, blissful and elated.
Scale Z: the integration of reality scale, which runs from confusion, delusions, and psychotic thoughts to integrated, clear, lucid thinking.
Many (if not all) of the drugs that were listed in Vol. 2 and this chapter can be plotted along one of these scales, and sometimes 2 or 3 of these scales, which means an x,y, z axis configuration can be used to compare such drugs. In terms of naturally occurring brain substances which are manufactured synthetically and injected according to the programmers needs, it could be stated that the original purpose of the substance can be malevolently tampered with.
p_mind-drugs.jpg
ADMINISTRATION OF DRUGS FOR PROGRAMMING
The distribution into the brain of a drug is dependent upon many factors. Under microscopic-level inspection, one discovers a persons brain is physically constructed to allow certain molecules to enter into the brain in certain complex ways. Just because a substance is put into the blood doesnt mean it gets into brain tissue. Researchers have discovered such drug properties such as lipid solubility, the ionization, its tissue-protein bonding abilities, and its molecular size all play a role in how well drugs get into the brain. Further, the Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) which will be discussed indepth in Chapter 8 can play a role in drug absorption. Several studies during the 1960s showed that the removal of drugs or substances from the CSF, can reduce the effective concentration of a drug in the extracellular spaces which make up perhaps 12% of the brains volume. These physical factors are not the only factors involved.
Researchers have repeatedly discovered that different people respond to mind-changing drugs in many different ways--including two different people having opposite responses to the same drug. There have been a number of studies about this phenomena, including: (SarwerFoner, 1957), (Henninger, et. al., 1965), (Rickels & Downing, 1966), (McNair et al., 1966). Over the years, it has been discovered that a persons mental abilities, expectations, prior drug experience, age, sex, race, personality traits, and personality types can all potentially influence how a mind-altering drug will effect a person. For instance, a sedative drug administered to an extroverted confident athlete caused the athlete to feel anxiety and disorientation. In contrast, an introverted nervous intellectual felt calmness when the same drug was administered. Particle size of the drug and the rate of dissolution will help determine the rate at which a drug is absorbed (and eliminated) into the body. For instance, when colloidal silver has been produced by a process that yields small particles, it will cleanse the body, while larger particles of colloidal silver will kill a person. Different companies and different preparations of the same drug may have different outcomes upon the body. The persistence of a drug in the body is calculated by programmers using half-lives of a drug. This means that at one half-life, one half of a drug is left in the body. At two half lives, one-half of one-half is left or (1/4). At three half-lives there will be 1/8 left of original drug. In other words, the rate of elimination decreases with time. When heroin is processed into morphine, its characteristics change. The heroin takes affect quicker, but doesnt last as long as morphine. This is because of enzyme mechanisms in the liver and how they react to the morphine in contrast to the heroin. Different drugs react differently with the complex enzyme mechanisms of the liver. Phenobarbital amazingly increases the enzyme content of the endoplasmic reticulum with habitual use of the drug. Phenobarbital will then enhance a particular type of toxicity. Low doses do not hurt the body, but there is a threshold where damage from phenobarbital will begin occurring to the liver and kidneys. This is a sampling of why it is important that the Illuminati use extremely skilled medical personnel in the application of programming drugs. The programmers are far more skilled than most legitimate therapists in understanding how much of what drug to give to which alter personality. The mental makeup of an alter will influence how that alter will respond to drugs. Some deeper alters can resist drug influence due to training. Some deeper alters are so fine-tuned that they only need small doses. With their superior knowledge of how a System of Multiple Personalities has been created within a victims mind, the programmers have a distinct edge over deprogrammers in how to administer drugs. On top of that the programmers, place in all types of programming to prevent anyone but the programmers (or approved people) from administering drugs. An example of how strong the mind can be over drugs--is when the programmers "SET THE STAGE", "PRESENT THE SCRIPT and then use Seconal to obtain deeply embedded programming commands. Setting the stage is a programming term for talking to the victim in such a way that the mind is receptive for what the programmer wants the victims mind to do. Presenting the script is the actual set of commands that the programmer gives to the victim. For instance, the programmer functioning as a hypnotist tells the victim that a powerful sedative will be given but that part of the mind will be strong enough to overcome the sedative effect of seconal. The victim is instructed "WHEN YOU HEAR THE WORD [trigger power code word, for instance: ZEBRA COME FORTH]...YOU WILL RESPOND TO WHAT I AM SAYING." The seconal is given and the person is placed in an isolation chamber. A good programmer skilled in hypnotism can actually get a victims mind to respond under the influence of seconal in an isolation chamber. Then the programmer will lay in deeply embedded commands while the person is in a sleep deeper than a twilight sleep. When the human body receives several different kinds of drugs, sometimes drugs compete with each other during the excretion/elimination phase. This may create a buildup or a retention of one of the drugs. As discussed in Vol. 2, the programmers dont like to use combinations of several drugs because it complicates things. There is still a great deal of unknowns concerning adverse drug reactions. Some people do not show an allergic response to a drug until it is administered several times. Because of the potential for allergic reactions or side effects, the Programmers are helped because the programming centers, according to ex-programmers are extremely well stocked with different drugs, & the Programmer can if need be shift to an alternative programming drug. Most slaves are programmed to stay away from the use of drugs, except those drugs that the programmer/handler approves. By reducing the use of drugs of all kinds, the problem of adverse drug reactions, and other complications is reduced for the programmers. Some people who are health freaks who stay away from drugs are actually carrying out a front program for their programmers.
MORE PROGRAMMING DRUGS (these were not listed in the Vol.2 Formula book)
Acetophenzine aka Tindal--(this anti-psychotic has been used on multiples, it mutes anxiety, suspiciousness and delusions. it would fall more into the control category of uses rather than for actual programming.)
Amines--(this is a general term for many types of the brains own chemicals used to produce moods, and feelings)
Damiana--(aka Mex. Witching Herb, the extract is used w/ other herbs during progamming for a relaxed pleasure state.) »An example is Damiana-Biack Kava Kava-Valerian-Skullcap-Wild Lettuce Opium, which makes a "its-nothing-but-a-dream" state.
Chloral hydrate--(which is a hypnotic put in pill form such as chioral betaine, Beta-Chlor, and given with something like a glass of milk. About 500 mg. of Chloral hydrate are given for a hypnotic for an adult.)
Cyciohexamide--(produces retroactive amnesia)
Cylert--a type of speed
Datura aka Jimsonweed, or thorn apple--(sometlmes used to help a child conjure up their personal spirit.)
Iminodibenzyis-- (used for sedation)
Lettuce Opium--(tradition Hopi shaman trance drug)
Mandrake--(from the Mandragora plant, an ancient occult drug, a traditionai witchcraft drug for causing people to sleep)
Methaqualone--(a rapid hypnotic drug that produces a dissociative high, it can be used to put someone into a coma)
Pemoline-magnesium hydroxide (aka PMH, helps enhance conditioned avoidance training by acting as a stimulant, is helpful for repetitive learning situations by a general alerting effect on the mind)
Phenothiazines--(used to raise the threshold of electrical stimulation tolerance, to tranquilize or induce sleep)
Rowan--traditional sleeping/death herb of witches; May Day is also called Rowan Tree Witch Day.
Seconal, aka Seconal Sodium or Secobarbital Sodium--(a popular programming drug to stabilize programming, to set in deep programming into the base of the mind such as dates and codes, and to block out memory of missions by slaves, see various paragraphs below for more explanations. Used in 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 mg. increments. A tubal pregnancy/birth can be hid in a woman by 300-400 mg., while surgery on an adult man may require 500 mg.)
Tetradoxyn (made from the Puffer Blowfish, used by Voudoun, & others to create a zombie state)
In our discussion of drugs used in programming, this chapter will expand upon the previous book by discussing the application of drugs to:
a. to stabilize the programming after torture b. hiding the codes
c. building in deeply embedded structures and beliefs, and the creation of false identities
b. to influence the memory by drugs c. to stimulate instinctual behaviors
d. to create moods and attitudes by synthetically manufacturing and injecting the brains own natural amines.
The total mind-control of the Illuminati is called "trauma-based mind-control" because repeated traumas are inflicted upon the victim is a very systematic calculated inhumane way. The tortures and stress are all parts of a programming package. After a particular harsh session of programming the victims mind will be in a high state of terror, shock, dissociativeness and splintering. The victims mind cant take much more, and the potential of having uncontrolled splintering of the victims mind and thereby having the destruction of the mind and programming threatens the programmers control. The programmer wants the mind and body to rest so that the programming can set in, without destabilizing events occurring. For instance, after severe water torture (drowning) the programmer will want the programming (hypnotic script) to set in, and he will give seconal (aka seconal sodium or secobarbital sodium) to induce a deep sleep. Sleep occurs within 10 to 15 minutes. Sometimes a victim's heart has been pushed to its limits during a trauma and they must shut the body down to let the victim rest. Seconal is a drug of choice for this. Seconal is administered in hospitals or programming sites where trained personnel know how to give the drug. Dirty psychiatrists, who understand the relationship between drugs and human behavior and who are either programmers themselves or assistants to programmers often are the ones who give the victims drugs like seconal.
EXTENSIVE RESEARCH DONE TO INFLUENCE HUMAN MEMORY BY DRUGS
The complete list of researchers who have studied the effect drugs have on memory would require a massive book. However, we will just mention a few that pertain to this book briefly. One of the places the effect of drugs on memory was researched was at the Univ. of California at Irvine, CA. Another was at institutions in the Boston, Mass. area such as the Massachusetts General Hosp., in Boston. Dr. Talland in Boston tested the effects of PMH on human memory. He discovered PMH could help people relearn material that had been partially forgotten. The Illuminati programmer Cameron (aka Dr. White) also tried out various approaches including the administration of RNA and RNA- synthesis stimulants. John C. Lilly, who admits being a member of an Esoteric Mystery School, was a government researcher on the use of LSD to program people. He did part of his work on LSD programming at the Maryland Psychiatric Research Center under admitted government financing. His book Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer (NY: Julian Press, 1967, & revised format 1972) is an excellent paper trail of how the Illuminati has used LSD to program total mind-controlled slaves. Originally, the book was given out only to a few select people. The book attempts to hide what it talks about behind a long intro, long sentences, big words and arcane psychological terms, but it does spell out how they do the mind-control programming with LSD. A section later in this chapter will lay out for the reader how they do this.
ONE TYPE OF EXPERIENCE OF VICTIM HYPNOTIC DRUG A MIND-CONTROL
The drugged victim feels like he is looking through a keyhole and the hypnotic voice of the programmer is the key hole. The world may be very shadowy and drawn in on itself. The mind has its attention on the hypnotist/programmer.
The human memory process can be basically broken down into 3 phases, the registration phase, the retention phase and the retrieval phase. Great amount of research has gone into how to use drugs to manipulate each of those phases. Great amount of research also went into how to measure peoples abilities to a. learn, b. remember, c. and to do non-learned behavior such as arm-hand steadiness and visual time reaction.
WHAT the MIND-CONTROL PROGRAMMERS USE to MANIPULATE memory.
Scopolamine was found to impair short-term memory. It was discovered that retrograde amnesia could be created by electroshock several hours after the brain had learned something. This lesson caused the Illuminati and those working in mind control with them to use cattle prods and stun guns.
If a person performed something they were to forget they can be stunned or given scopolamine to deaden their memory. A quick anesthetic applied immediately after something has been done might also impair the retention of what had happened. Yet another way is seconal, which will be discussed soon. Low doses of analeptic drugs given about 10 to 20 min. before training were found to help learning. Analeptic drugs include bemegride, diazadamantanol, pentylenete-trazol, picotoxin, and strychnine. It was discovered that strychnine helps enhance classical conditioning. It can be administered either before or after the learning has taken place. It is believed that memory storage is enhanced by strychnine and strychnine sulfate. Strychnine was also found to help protect the minds memory against the effect of electroshock. Abusers out on the street have been turning to GHB and Rohypnol to decrease inhibitions and to cause memory loss in their victims. Rohypnol (which sells for up to $10 a tablet) is dependable but more expensive than the GHB. A number of women who have been raped by adding these drugs to their alcoholic drinks at the Club Boca, Palm Beach, FL made the paper after they were drugged and raped after partying at the club. (The Palm Beach Post, Mar., 1996 pp. 1B, 10B.) GHB (Gamma Hydroxy Butyrate) is a compound essential to the body. It acts similar to a neurotransmitter. It helps release the Human Growth Hormone and removes inhibitions around intimacy, as well as some other beneficial effects. GHB crosses the blood-brain barrier and metabolizes into GABA. GHBs high degree of safety was proved over 25 years of research, and was basically an established fact before the FDA and the media demonized GHB. Several sources seem to indicate that the FDA banned GHB --not because it has dangerous side effects, which it doesnt have inspite of the established medias disinformation campaign with half truths--but because it is not patented by the drug companies and would cut into their profits.
GHB also has a great aphrodisia effect. It reduces inhibitions to have sex, but because the woman clitoris is more sensitive it interferes with female orgasms. However, when the women do achieve it, it is longer and more intense, according to GHB researchers. (This author got much information on GHB from the Centurion Aging Research Lab.) GHB is described here because it is a drug that is known by the type of people who use sexual slaves and other people, and its use and misuse pertain to mind control. Like so many things involved with mind-control, GHB and many other items could be put to positive uses if used in the proper way. Sometimes the programmers use drugs rather than ECS (Electroconvulsive shock) to destroy the memory in slaves after they have done some mission for the Illuminati, the Syndicates, or Cult they belong to. The decision to use drugs rather than ECS is largely personal tastes. The very sadistic programmers enjoy using ECS, while the less sadistic ones often use the drugs, which in some instances actually perform better, but are not as violent to the victim of mind control. Retroactive amnesia can be caused by an intracerebral or a subcutaneous (under the skin) shot of Acetoxycycloheximide, cyclohexamide, or puromyxcin. A more sophisticated technique incorporates the drug seconal (aka Seconal sodium), the victims dissociativeness (the MPD), and hypnosis. Seconal is a strong sedative that puts people into sleep. The programmers have considered it "wonderful". The victims mind is conditioned hypnotically to be able to remember the drugged-seconal state. Then the hypnotic command is given that if anything about a particular mission is remembered, the person will immediately trigger (pull-up to the front of the mind) the seconal memory. This is why many therapists discover their clients getting sleepy when they get close to certain thoughts, or when they try to do therapeutic work.
Chapter 4 provides some of the programming codes, some of which are standard and some of which are unique to a particular slave. Seconal was the standard drug used during the 1950s and 1960s to hide the programming codes in the minds memory. The procedure is to give a small child under 50 lbs. perhaps 10 mg. of seconal. The programmer has already "SET THE STAGE" and presented the script. After the child goes into its deep sleep, the programmer pulls the childs mind awake hypnotically (actually to be technically correct, the programmer pulls up those alters/parts of the mind that the programmer wants to work with). The child may awake on an satanic altar or other programming setting. The child is then programmed. After the programming, which may include satanic rituals, the child slave is given 20 mg. more of seconal and allowed to go into a sleep again. A cover program (a cover story--that is a false code will be planted hypnotically in front of the real code. "IF YOU SHOULD REMEMBER THIS..." If a slave starts to remember any code, in spite of the hypnotic commands not to, and all the threats and alters trained to protect the codes, etc. then the programming to sleep kicks in. Also remember that the codes are placed in when the victim is groggy, so to pull up the memory will cause the slave to abreact the drugged-state. Not all the alters are drugged. In setting the stage, the programmer orders some alters to back off from feeling or associating the experience. They are hypnotically commanded not to experience the drugs effects, or to only experience it in a partial manner. This can be done with small amounts of seconal. Larger amounts of seconal will override the minds ability to block the drugs effects. The programming experience where the codes are put in, will likely be remembered by the slave as something similar to the following, a sleepy blurry picture of a nurse, then a doctor and a table, and then an IV, then the memory fades, and the slave gets sleepy thinking about it.
It should be pointed out that the mind has strong natural abilities to dissociate painful memories. Not only must the victim try to retrieve memories by fighting the minds natural dissociative abilities, the victim must fight the hypnotic suggestions, the irrationality of conflicting ideas due to the false cover memories laid in, the DRUG memories attached to induce sleep if the victim remembers, the memory shattering from the shock of the stun guns, and the fear of countless other threats internal and external if the memory is recovered. It is no surprise that most victims of this horrendously abusive mind-control have front alters who are totally unaware of the mind-control and abuse.
PROGRAMMING WITH LSD-25 (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide)
The Programmers use controlled and manipulated LSD trips for mind-control purposes when layering in the programming for the Illuminati slaves. The victims mind is trained and mentally prepared before actually being subjected to the drug. The programmers understand how the mind unleashes its fears, including its fear of LSD itself, while under the drug, so that small doses are given at first and then increased. This is so the victim of mind-control can learn to face and manage the effects of the drug.
When the Illuminati want to set the foundations for a system, they will use LSD in a sensory deprivation tank on a child to program in such things as: the hell-pit (a dungeon in a castle), the images of evil guardians, worlds & stars & galaxies which contain alters, the outer space in a system, and the protective program where the mind spreads out like molecules and loses the ability to think. The sensory deprivation tank will be set at 92.0 to 95.0 F. isothermal skin, saltwater suspension, zero light, near zero-sound levels. The victim will be naked without contact with the side of the tank and in remote isolation for several hours. Electrodes can be hooked up to shock the victim if they move to prevent the victim from wanting to move. Victims usually are conditioned to like the sensory deprivation tank before they are programmed inside it with LSD. After having listened to two ex-programmers describe LSD sensory deprivation programming, this author was amazed to discover that the LSD programmer John Lilly had actually written a book about how to do the programming! (John Lilly was also into witchcraft & aliens.) The government wasnt quite as thrilled with his book as I was, they withdrew research funds from him in 1968 when only a few copies of his book came out. And now finally almost twenty years later, the human LSD programming that John Lilly described is finally being put into its larger context--that of trauma-based total mind-control. On page 126-127, Lilly explains that implanted programs in the child can be placed in below the level of the minds awareness, but which will affect their entire outlook on life, and which will control their thinking and behavior far into adulthood. The programs can even be done to control the most basic functions of life. Lilly says that the programming possible with the use of LSD is "...not achievable outside the use of LSD-25. This amount of control can be said to resemble other ways of achieving control and visual projection but in actual intensity I know of no other way to achieve it. Hypnosis is a possible exception." (Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer, p. 20) On page 19, Lilly states that LSD can be used to change an experience to have a negative or a positive charge on it. Sometimes people who work with the mind refer to negative experiences as "negative charges on an experience", and good experiences as "experiences with a positive charge". Apparently, according to Lilly, the brain can switch chemical charges on an experience and shift its attitude from viewing as either positive or negative. In fact, this very thing is done during Illuminati programming. For instance, it may be done if a memory surfaces that the programmer doesnt want the alter being programmed to understand. This last paragraph is interesting when one realizes that under LSD the subconscious mind is allowed to release its thinking into the conscious. If a person has been traumatized, the subconscious mind under LSD will release the trauma memories and flood the person with horrible thoughts. So before one can get to the transcendental wonderful creative thoughts, a person has to deal with this garbage. The sub-conscious erupts like molten magma. Before the child is given the LSD, the child is going to have to be mentally prepped. Just as Seconal could only be used after the hypnotist programmer had SET THE STAGE, so also with the LSD. The LSD programmer if he is experienced will have an idea how the victim will react to the drug. Each person reacts in his or her own way, but there are patterns of reaction. The programmer will hypnotically warn the victim, YOURE NOT TO FEAR such and such thought. They may tell the victim that it is just their imagination, when it is repressed memories of trauma surfacing. The programmer will let one alter carry the true feelings (such as fear) of the surfacing traumas, and another to carry the story line being programmed in with LSD. The programmer may have to calm the victim down while they are in the tank. The Illuminati use hypnosis in conjunction with the LSD programming trips. They also use some other mind-control items too. Further, LSD is not the only programming hallucinogenic that they have used for some of this type of programming, they have tried Peyote, but LSD seems to be the drug of choice. On page 20, Lilly describes the use of mirrors along with LSD to create visually projected images. The Illuminati programmer will play a movie, a script over and over so that it is constantly in the forefront of the victims mind. Then the stage is set and the script (such as TAKE WHAT YOU SEE INTO THE MIRROR) is hypnotically given. The victim goes under LSD and in about 15 minutes reaches their LSD high. Most people can be talked to by the programmer during the programming, and the programmer can get some feedback from what is happening in the victims mind. The victim will be placed in front of a mirror. Then the victim will project the image that was repeatedly shown him or her (say for instance, Alice In Wonderland, or Tinkerbell, or Mickey Mouse) onto their own image in the mirror. A special state of consciousness is induced where the persons perception is altered and they see the projected image as their own reflection. While watching the projected image on the mirror, the mind under LD will also project its own feelings and facial features into the mirror. If the victim is angry, happy, in pain, admiring themselves, etc. then projected image (for instance, Mickey Mouse) will also been seen this way. Using this type of programming, the programmers can create twinning parts. That is if two people are to be twinned, parts that see themselves as the other person are created using the LSD mirror programming. Ceremonies and demons will also be added to strengthen the twinning, and this may be done to a 13 year old teenager within the Illuminati. These projections can be maintained and worked with for about 30-40 min. during the drugs high. After this length of time fatigue sets in and the person must rest before being brought to another high. A clean slate alter can be prepared by the script and then will actually believe that it saw itself as the projected image. By the time, the session is through the clean slate alter believes it is Alice in Wonderland or whatever character the programmer(s) wants it to be. During the trauma of an LSD programming trip, the mind may see flickering images, melting, mosaics and other things. These distortions can form a cover memory if the programmers wants them too. During the sensory deprivation tank experience under LSD, the victim can be asked to open their eyes, or close them. If asked to form a mental screen, the victim under LSD will see a blank screen differently if their eyes are open as compared to closed. If the victim is allowed to look while in a dark tank out into the darkness under LSD, they will visualize themselves as merging with the infinite universe and not even having a body. This memory is used to build in the outer space of a system. On page 32, Lilly describes the type of programming used to create an Infinity, a Rubicon, or Outer Space within a system. He says, "The self is still centered at one place but its boundaries have disappeared and it moves out in all directions and extends to fill the limits of the universe as far as one knows them. A person taking LSD may experience, whether being programmed or not, that they are in touch with all the stars of the universe.
LSD distortions in reality can also be used to protect the programming. If the mind gets too close to remembering something, then the mind triggers automatically a memory of its molecules expanding into the universe and losing their ability to think. This is simply a controlled LSD memory. When external stimuli is ceased, the brain takes over the spaces that were formerly occupied in the thinking process by external reality, and replaces it with feelings and thoughts from the internal mind. Lilly states on pg. 24 that when programming people under LSD, "The blank screen is the most difficult one to work with but is the least driving of the group. The blank screen interferes least with ones creative efforts;..." In other words, if the victim is closed off to external stimuli, the mind can focus all its energy into free associative creativity. Once the victim is in isolation, religious music can cause the brain to free associate religious visions, cartoon voices can cause the brain to free associate the cartoon figures, etc. The Illuminati/Intelligence agencies must wait 3 to 6 months between LSD programming sessions. If they do it more often, they run the risk of hooking the persons mind on the drug state. Then the person will lose interest in reality, and simply try to escape reality into the LSD world as a drug addict. From recollections from ex-programmers and victims, its clear that as the child victim is traumatized during the [SD sensory deprivation (including being shocked) experiences it goes through a sequence or chronology of changes which are noted in detail by the programmers. Certain splits occur at certain points in time which will be used for special tasks. For instance, at a particular extreme moment the victim may go into a "nothingness state" which is between life and death, where the mind quits perceiving that it has a body. This is not an out-of-body experience, it is a nothingness experience due to an extreme near-death experience. This clean slate can be used for the Cabalistic programming of the Ain Soph Aur. The Ain Soph Aur is the cosmic egg from which the universe supposedly began, ain = vacuum, soph limitless, and aur = limitless light. For Satanists they interpret this to the light at the top of the pyramid, Lucifer. Alters created in such a fashion may be placed in a succession of realms. If true Caballism is followed this will consist of 4 realms (worlds) of 10 clean slates. These four worlds are Atziluth = boundless world of divine names, Briah the Archangelic World of Creations Yetzirah = the Hierarchal World of Formations Assiah = the Elemental World of Substances
The child victim in the sensory deprivation tank is not allowed to move without being shocked. Gradually the will of the victim is broken by the total control the programmer maintains over the child in the tank. But the will of the child continues to be broken until the will of the child to live is broken. At this point, when the mind has given up the will to live, the programmer (or assistant programmer) will tell the child in the tank, "If you create such and such types of persons and such and such no. of them (perhaps 10 or 20 are asked for) then you can come out and well stop hurting you. Give me a signal that youve done your job and Ill stop hurting you when the job is done. Move a finger or blink your eyes three times if youve done your job." Blinking three times generally feels the safest for the child, and is generally the limit of what the mind and body can muster to save themselves. The alters, which are made when the mind & body have lost the will to live, are the dissociated parts that will be made into suicide alters. Their breathing is very shallow, they are in pain in the tank. When these parts take the body, they still function in that state. Years later, if the adult body has these suicide alters take the body, there is a good chance they will commit suicide, if not simply die from the shallow breathing. Lilly states on page 31, "One experiences [under LSD programming] an immediate internal reality which is postulated by the self. It is apparent to me that ones own assumptions about this experience generates the whole experience. The experienced affects, the apparent appearance of other persons, the appearance of other beings not human, ones own past phantasies, ones own self-analysis, each can be programmed to happen in interaction with those parts of ones self beyond ones conscious awareness."
While the victim is in the sensory deprivation tank, the programmer can ask the victim to create guard alters within the castle images they create. These are equivalent to the imagery that is done in witchcraft. These image alters are not the same as a trauma-created dissociative alter. The following are the type of beliefs that can be programmed into a person in the sensory deprivation tank under LSD no matter what their prior beliefs (this is substantiated by Lilly, pages 4 1-49 and ex-programmers).
a. The person could successfully park the body and leave the body somewhere, astral project and explore new universes. The victim can be brought during an LSD trip to this thinking and experience the astral projection from around 20 mm. to 2 hours.
b. The victim can be made to feel as if they are a tiny mote, a tiny dot, a single microflash of energy in their own view of time, a mere particle. Time can become infinity and the victim a mere microflash. The victim during this experience seeks a god who is a great being to control him. This is used in the Illuminati alien programming to program in the evil and good aliens, or evil or good gods. The gods or the aliens on such a programming trip will not be so strange that the victim as a mote cant understand their purposes and activities. In other words, the aliens on programming trips like this turn out humanoid. The victim experiences being nurtured by these beings or the god(s) that he sees. The victim may perceive these aliens on the trip experimenting with us. One UFO researcher and author about the aliens has used his LSD trips to research aliens. Sad to report, this researcher is a programmed multiple. It is easy to see how the mind could think that it was learning about aliens, because this is a common easy-to-create LSD programming script. Again in summary, this second set of beliefs is that the person is a mere mote, a small flash in infinite time. When an alter of a slave thinks or goes internally where it shouldnt, this programming is attached to the mind so that the victim loses sight of who they are and feels very insignificant and only a dot.
c. The next program that LSD naturally lends itself to, is that the victim is only part of a vast computer, only part of a vast mind. For some reason, the LSD is able to hit a part of the mind that regulates the perception of free-will. In this type of programming, the victim under LSD is convinced that he or she has no free will and must participate each second with some larger mind or computer.
d. Personalities that have been seen externally by the victim will be incorporated within the persons internal world.
e. LSD changes the victims perception of time, and can be used to go back or forward in time in the mind. Under guidance, the programmer can manipulate this ability to build into the mind false memories and images.
f. If "white noise", that is random background noise is placed into an isolation tank trauma, the programmers have found that under LSD the brain tries to make sense of the random sounds and projects the voice of God into the random noise as a method to turn chaos into something comprehendible. With the right dose, and under the right conditions, the programmers can get the voice of "God" to say about anything they want. Because the sense of hearing in the sensory deprivation tank is not feeding the mind anything, the human brain under LSD can easily substitute in the voice of God.
g. For girls, who have been determined to have personalities with low sexual appetites, the sexual desires of certain alter personalities can be manipulated during an LSD trip by having these alters hold the body and the body go through exaggerated pelvic movements and other experiences. This is an example of the type of training that Gittinger (see Vol. 2) discovered was necessary in order to change thinking patterns within a person--in this case with the MPD (DID), some alters can be radically changed from the original personality.
The overall effect of such LSD programming on anyone, whether child or adult, is that the mind at a deep level begins to doubt its ability to grasp the real from the imaginary. Therapists sometimes wonder why alters are not more anxious to determine reality. Part of this may be the side-effect at a profound level of the brain beginning to doubt its abilities to separate reality from fiction. If the LSD trips were not controlled by the programmers, insanity could result for the victim. Further, the LSD trips pose a danger that they could clutter the internal world of the victim and splinter their mind uncontrollably. This is why the trips must be carefully guided, controlled and monitored.
CHEMICALLY TRIGGERING NATURAL INSTINCTUAL DRIVES
The brain when a child is born is like a computer which is ready to go, and just needs the software loaded on. In other words, the brain is already a functioning complicated programmed piece of hardware, it is not a blank sheet. The mind is preprogrammed to carry out important instinctual functions, such as drinking water, eating food and sleeping. Likewise, the adult mother instinctively has maternal instincts. Selectively applied chemical or electrical stimulations to the brain will elicit the instinctual behaviors that are pre-programmed into the brain. A microinjection of a soluble sex steroid into the anteromedial hypothalamus would likely trigger the maternal instinct in a person. The various instinctual behaviors that are triggered by microchemical injections or small select electrical shocks will last for up to an hour. (A.E. Fisher was one of the principal researchers in this line of research during the 50s and 60s.) For instance, A.E. Fisher and E. Vaughan, discovered that the male instinct for sex could be stimulated by a small shock to a specific part of the brain. (See "Male sexual behavior induced by intracranial electrical stimulation", Science magazine, 1962, 137, pp. 758-760.) Steroids are one of the chemicals that are used as well as selective minute electrical shocks to trigger instinctual behaviors. Reliable responses can be obtained from a victim, if the correct chemical is placed at a place in the brain where the chemical will cause the brain to send an electrical signal to trigger an instinctual behavior. A searching reaction can be created so that a person or animal searches for something in his surroundings by electrical stimulation of the hippocampus. Eating can be reliably induced electronically or by drugs. Perfusate taken from ventricles or neural tissue of a person who was starved before death, and placed into the lateral hypothalamic area will cause the person to eat whether they are hungry or full.
SEXUAL STIMULATION-PROGRAMMING
The users of slaves need some of the parts to be nymphomaniacs. In order to program this type of behavior, the programmers not only use the reversal effect when pain becomes pleasure (see Vol. 2), but they also use hormones and drugs to make certain parts nymphomaniacs. If they were not artificially stimulated they could not endure the over-use they are subjected to at times.
THEIR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE (SYNTHESIZE) BRAIN CHEMICALS TO MAKE MIND-CONTROL DRUGS
Part of the ability to do mind-control has to do with their ability to synthesize the actual specific chemicals that the brain produces to alter itself. When the brain wants to relax, or excite itself it uses certain compounds. A large number of the brains chemicals have been cataloged and can be reproduced in the lab. The messages the brain sends have to jump from one neuron to another via transmitters. The rate that the brain releases these transmitters can be both directly and indirectly changed by drugs. In other words, one can tailor make moods and emotions in the brain chemically.
Page 36 ...
The term "Amines" (which are compounds that have a nitrogen atom that can accept a proton) came to have a specific meaning for brain researchers. The transmitters between neurons in the brain are Amines such as dopamine, epinephrine, histamine, norepinephrine, octopamine, serotonin, and tyramine. The principle method to synthesize these transmitter amines is "decarboxylation of the parent amino acid." In other words, the chemist takes Tyrosine and applies Tyrosine Hydroxylase (an enzyme) and produces Dopa another similar compound; and then the enzyme Dopa Decarboxylase is applied and from that the similar Dopamine amine is created. Then Dopamine-Beta-oxidase (another enzyme) is applied in the final step of the three enzyme steps to create Norepinephrine. Both Dopamine and Norepinephrine are neural transmitters. If norepinephrine is diminished in the brain, sedation occurs. Alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (as well as other compounds) was found to be one of the things that would prevent the brain from creating (synthesizing for itself) norepinephrine. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) is created in a fashion similar to dopamine, in that tryptophan is taken and acted upon by the enzyme Tryptophan hydroxylase to get 5-hydroxytryptophan, and then a decarboxylase converts this compound to serotonin. To reverse things, and prevent the brain from having serotonin, they can prevent selective parts of the brain from creating it with p-chlorphenylalanine.
ADRENALCHROME (Adrenal Chromaffin)
This naturally occurring yellowish brown drug was not mentioned in the Vol. 2 book, although it was mentioned in this authors newsletters in 93 and May 95 The drug is obtained by sacrificing a terrified person, perhaps by plunging the athame into them, and then taking a hypodermic needle and extracting the adrenalchrome from the base of the neck in the pineal gland. A sacrificed person only yields about 10 c.c. so the drug is not only very secret on the black market but very expensive. A Scientific American article by Carmichael and Winkler is the best thing that I have discovered on the adrenalchrome. The Max Planck Institute in Germany did research into Adrenalchrome. Dirty law-enforcement officials and others have worked to keep the existence of adrenalchrome a secret. It is not known if Adrenalchrome has ever been used for programming, but it is a popular secret drug of the elite Illuminati kingpins. For many years, they were not able to synthetically produce the drug, and had to rely on human sacrifices as their source. It is possible that in the last year or so, that some method to synthesize the drug may have been found. Chromaffin cells secrete adrenaline, noradrenaline and other substances into the bloodstream which exert a great deal of control over tissue, and organs.
HERBS
Another place that programmed DID Satanic Ritual Survivors may encounter herbs is the use of herbal charms to enhance magic spells.
OILS
The Illuminati have also used oils for their powerful properties. Recently, a doctor who was trained by the Freemasons has been helping people discover the powerful properties of these oils. Christians also have been rediscovering the powerful healing powers in pure Fennel, Frankincense, Juniper, Lavender, Peppermint, Pane and other cold pressed Oils and combinations of oils.
Summary of Major Point.
The guided LSD trips in the sensory deprivation tanks are crucial for laying in the foundational programming. Readers will learn more about guided LSD trips & programming drugs throughout this book.
Page 37 ...
[back]
