# Deeper Insights 1: SELECTION & PREPARATION OF THE VICTIM

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/mindcontrol2/part01.htm

CHAPTER 1. SCIENCE NO. 1 - SELECTION & PREPARATION OF THE VICTIM
[back]
BREEDING GOOD SUBJECTS for HYPNOSIS-hypnosis as it relates to selection &
preparation of the victim
GENETICS
TRAINING THE UNBORN CHILD
COMMON ILLUMINATI WORK WITH TWINS
SELECTION OF ADULT CANDIDATES FOR MIND-CONTROL
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 1
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL
2
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 3
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 5
TESTING YOUNG CHILDREN TO PLAN THE PROGRAMMING
The average person who has been spoon-fed what he knows from the controlled establishment (the establishments news, churches, and schools) is overwhelmed and in denial that mind-control can be happening.
Who would want to carry out mind-control? One category are those groups who use the Cabala. Hasidic Judaism, Freemasonry, and Witchcraft are all based on the Cabala.
Llewellyns magazine New Worlds of Mind and Spirit (a prominent witchcraft magazine) in their June/July 94 issue state on page 56,
"The golem of Prague is perhaps the most famous example of practical cabala- the use of cabala for magical cabala."
Golem are mind-controlled beings. There are several cabalistic and witchcraft written references that point out that the creation of mind-controlled zombies (golem) was the highest goal of the cabala.
Albert Pike, perhaps the most important Freemason of all times, clearly stated as the head of Freemasons worldwide that Freemasonry is based on the Cabala. A cabalistic psychiatrist in Psychoanalysis Review, 44, issue 31, p. 180 wrote,
"Victory over the world would be secured by any man who possessed the Shem...[We shall control the world (words to this effect)]... when we shall attain the consciousness of the Shem within us and will control the power of the Golem to regenerate the world." [The Golem are energized by the magic Tetragrammaton, which the Jehovahs W.s emphasize so much.]
In The Worldwide Weekly, Defense News of 3/20-26/95, the Defense News an official military paper indicated that the navy was attempting to produce an "Army of Zombies". The Defense News stated:
"The research, called Hippocampal Neuron Patterning, grows live neurons on computer chips, William Tolles, the recently retired associate director of research at the Naval Research Lab, said March 15. This technology that alters neurons could potentially be used on people to create zombie armies, Lawrence Korb, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said March 16 .... The research has captured the attention of the U.S. Intelligence community."
I have taken the space to give you the reader a paper trail that shows that YES INDEED, there are groups of people that desire human zombies. So where do they select their candidates for their zombie creating programs? Thats what this chapter will deal with. Youll have to go to some of my other books to learn how these mind-control groups all interconnect.
The previous book by this author The Top 13 Illuminati Bloodlines was intended to help people begin to understand the major role bloodlines play within the Illuminati. When this author was on speaking circuit, he ran into a number of researchers who had researched the New World Order and the Illuminati for years and not realized the significance of the bloodlines. In tracking the bloodlines, it became apparent that the European Illuminati bloodlines were trying to integrate some of the American Indian bloodlines into their own bloodlines. Why?
They wanted the occult power that these bloodlines contributed. And it seems that not only do generational spirits help in many ways, but there are reasons to believe that the Aborigines of Australia, the Bushmen of the Kalahari, and some of the American Indian tribes such as the Cherokee have high paranormal abilities in addition to their demonic spiritual abilities. Some believe that the psi-gene was valuable for the survival of primitive hunter tribes, while tribes who went into agriculture lost some of the power of the primary and secondary psi-genes since natural selection would not have encouraged psi-genes in agricultural based societies. The primary psi-genes are thought by some to be some genetic coding which enhances proteins to be better biophysical batteries, storage units, and other roles. The secondary genetic psi-coding are thought to be codes for creating richer and higher-functioning neural pathways, and neural capabilities. Whether this was true, if the Illuminati believed it was true, it could account for their penchant for mixing in American Indian blood with their elite "blue blood."
BREEDING GOOD SUBJECTS for HYPNOSIS-hypnosis as it relates to selection & preparation of the victim.
Hypnosis and programming work well in the alpha state of the mind. This is why the child is traumatized even in the womb, so that it will naturally be in that alpha state even before birth. The man in the street may think that the hypnotist looks for weak-willed subjects, however the mind-control programmers and professional stage hypnotists say that a "fighter", "a determined forceful personality" are the types they search for to have a successful hypnotic session. Weak-willed persons are usually incapable of seriously concentrating for the successful pursuance of any idea, and usually are the worst subjects.
Intelligence is often helpful, and (as stated in the first volume) the ability to be creative is extremely important to the programmers. An extremely important factor for the subject of mind-control to have is the "emotional drive to pursue to its successful completion a given objective." (McGill, Ormond. Professional Stage Hypnotism. pp. 87-88.) One reason the programmers like to work with children who were preemies is that they are fighters. Another reason the programmers like to work with intelligent children, and not waste time trying to program lower-than-average intelligent children, is that they are easier to hypnotize.
This does not mean that only people who appear intelligent are programmed. During the programming process, many of the victims are programmed to appear stupid to others and to themselves. Only the master (and those who work with him) are to use the full potential of the victim.
The victims talents are stolen from them. An intelligent child, who comes from an intelligent family, and who is programmed with total mind-control may grow up into adulthood thinking he or she is of average or below average intelligence.
Pres. Theodore Roosevelt, who was blood related to both President Martin Van Buren and to Franklin Delano Roosevelt, is on record, "Some day we will realize that the prime duty, the inescapable duty of the good citizens of the right type is to leave his or her blood behind him in the world; and that we have no business to permit the perpetuation of citizens of the wrong type .... The problem cannot be met unless we give full consideration to the immense influence of heredity .... I wish very much that the wrong people could be prevented entirely from breeding; and when the evil nature of these people is sufficiently flagrant, this should be done .... The emphasis should be laid on getting desirable people to breed."
Many of the people within the Illuminati bloodlines have made statements like this, and have done all they could to leave many secret offspring behind, because these elite bloodlines have felt they were the chosen to lead humanity. Your ancient aristocratic families such as the Cabots, Lodges & Delanos have been in favor of placing the blame on societys problems on the "bad blood" of the common man. They forget all the evils that have been perpetrated on these common people by the blue blooded aristocratic families that think they are so superior.
For instance, Illuminati kingpin Harrimans wife purchased land at Cold Springs, NY to promote a eugenics program. She said that being raised around good race horses helped her appreciate good breeding in man. Eugenics is the philosophy that some humans are genetically superior to others, & that inferior genetic races/individuals should be destroyed. The first eugenics program started in the United States was by John Humphrey Noyes, the cult leader of communist Oneida communities. John Humphrey Noyes father was a Vermont Congressman, and his mother was a relative of Rutherford B. Hayes, the 19th U.S. President. His family was from the burned out district, from Putney, Vermont. In 1833, Yale granted him a license to preach.
Noyes began creating his communist communities around 1836, and he dictated all their major decisions, including their group sex and eugenics policies. In 1869, John H. Noyes selected 53 women and 38 men to be the only ones in his communities allowed to produce children. The goal was to perfect the genetics of the community by only allowing well bred children. This is believed to be the first eugenics program. All members of the community were encouraged to have sex with everyone else & not to form emotional attachments around it. However, they were not to have procreative sex. The Oneida group can clearly be tied in with European occult groups that tie in with the illuminati.
The Oneida group used central committees and social control through mutual criticism to keep their members in line. Their social control methods were extremely effective. Years later, Chinese communism began using these innovations of Noyes. Charles Guiteau, who assassinated Pres. Garfield, was a member of Noyes Oneida community. He became a member because his father, a disciple of Noyes, took him there as a boy. Charles stated that at the Noyes community, he came under the influence of Noyes and "I was unable to get away from that influence ... A man was just as isolated from the world as if he were confined in states prison or lunatic asylum. I suffered greatly in mind and body and spirits during incarceration in that community."
He claimed he had never gotten free of the control that began when he entered the Oneida community. In 1880, he began hanging around the Republican Partys NY HQ. This was a very strange thing, because Charles Guiteau had never had any interest in politics his entire life. He bought a pistol from a "gentleman", and then shot President Garfield. Knowing that Illuminati mind-control was already taking place at this time, certainly makes this assassination an area for further study. John Noyes had his groups conducting seances and carrying out initiation rites. He personally sexually initiated the girl children of his communities at these rites. In June, 1879, when the authorities came to arrest him for mass rape of little girls, he fled to British Canada, where the British government gave him asylum.
After Noyes skipped the country, the community was incorporated as a joint-stock corporation called Oneida Ltd., which later burned a large amount of the personal records and the diaries of the members to keep their sexual activities forever secret. Its interesting to note, that long before 1879, in June, 1847, Noyes had treated a woman Harriet Hall for tuberculosis & dropsy by holding a seance ritual and sexually sealing the spiritual cure with intercourse with the woman. After the womans husband reported this, a grand jury indicted Noyes. He skipped bail and an almost sure conviction by fleeing to New York. People have wondered how he managed to practice his odd sexual behaviors for years and never get into trouble with authorities.
Margaret Sanger, an early feminist, was also an advocate of eugenics. In their zeal to make her a hero, modern feminists have neglected to notice this side of her. Sanger advocated sterilization of the feeble-minded by he government. This all sounded good at the turn of the century before legitimate research showed that genetics played only a partial role in how people turned out, and that environment and choices by individuals also played just as big of a role in how people turned out. Many of the people who were sterilized under eugenic laws were realized to have been victims of pseudo-science and hysteria. The Great Depression leveled many proud and haughty people down to the same level as the common people they had sneered down upon.
Rich and poor found themselves in bread lines. The financial elite and the academic elite were humbled and the eugenics racial theories in the U.S. largely disappeared. Finally, H.J. Muller, a famous and respected geneticist, gave an outstanding and courageous speech to the Eugenics Society in NY in 1932 where he lambasted the eugenicists for using false better-breeding theories to rationalize the criminal behavior of the elite.
The Illuminati had suffered a temporary setback in legitimizing their criminal rule over humanity. In recent years, the Illuminatis evil ideas about superior and inferior blood lines are being given more credence again. The National Institute of Health funded a $1.7 million study at the University of Hawaiis Behavioral Biology Lab to get solid information on how genetics relates to intelligence so that "informed decisions" about population control can be made in the future. Almost every state has now adopted genetic screening of new-born babies in the U.S. While the Illuminati may not be able to fully implement their superior blood theories in society in general, they have been secretly working feverishly in labs and in secret rituals around the world to redesign mankind to their preferences. Many Illum. members are the end result of carefully monitored genetic engineering.
They want to manufacture the future via control over human genetics. Many years ago, the first step in the Illuminati genetic program was the creation of specifications. When these specs, these criteria, were set as goals, they then worked to realize them. They have been working at them, and refining the results as they continue to work toward specific goals. They have sought the perfect assassin. They have sought the perfect slave. They have sought the perfect baseball player and golf player. They have sought the perfect soldier. The borders between these manufactured Illuminati total mind-control slaves and an industrial robot are fast becoming blurred. The end of the human race as we know it, and civilization as we know it, is rapidly approaching. Via molecular biology and genetics, humanoids that are vastly different from normal humans have been created in secret underground installations.
They have been modifying humans to design para-humans, and then applying mind-control to them. The Illuminati is not only controlling humanity, but under their control redesigning it. Lest anyone forget, the descendants of John Noyes Oneida Colony, and the genetic model wonder children born in Nazi Germany are still around. According to one source, the Nazis produced numerous offspring of Hitler which were secretly taken to many countries and then later reassembled in certain special towns.
These children received mind-control as well as being specially endowed with as many special traits as the Nazis could give them. If this is true, it could have some significance in the future. Illuminati kingpins are also able to store their semen via cryogenics for all kinds of scenarios. Frozen sperm can be used to create a son after the father had died. Should an Illuminati kingpin want to impregnate his grand-daughter 10 years after his death, it would be possible. On the flip side, single women can choose semen from sperm banks. Another twist that the Illuminati have taken advantage of is taking the fertilized egg of one set of parents and implanting it into a brooder slave to raise the child as a surrogate mother.
It should also be mentioned that ex-Illuminati members have explained how planned births are coincided to have the child be born on particular special occult dates. (The Illuminati have a intense lifestyle of secrecy, so most of their members do not carry the last name of the bloodline they belong to. Some members are given significant occult names for their legal name, and others use legal names which have no significance. Having a legal occult-significant name is not essential, because the alter system will receive a secret Illuminati occult name.) The bottom line is that bloodlines, genetics and genetic engineering is playing a role in the selection process of who is programmed a certain way.
Also the Illuminati has particular research goals that have been structured into their 20 year, 30 year and 50 year plans. Case histories show that a child will receive education and programming in order to participate in secret research projects years down the road. Some of todays marked children are invariably being quietly educated to help with future research goals.
As might be suspected the inbreeding within the secret Illuminati bloodlines and their secret satanic lifestyles take their genetic toll.. How do the Illuminati get rid of their leftovers, the children their bloodlines have that arent going to amount to a great deal? In terms of mind-control, the male children that are the programming leftovers, the ones that are not really fit to make into politicians, doctors and lawyers, will be made into stalkers, according to an ex-Illuminati programmer, who worked in this area of programming, the ratio of men to women that are programmed for stalking is about 90% to 10%. Why discuss how the Illuminati makes stalkers?
First, many people doubt that there is a controlled conspiracy by the Illuminati to control the world, because in their limited understanding they think that there are too many uncontrollable people around for the world to be controlled. They dont realize that a large share of those crazy people were intentionally created by the Illuminati. The Illuminati programmers and handlers during the 40s through the 60s, according to insiders, had specific quotas on how many people to have go crazy so that the mental institutions (which were used for programming) could maintain their government financing. Readers, who have followed this authors lectures, have heard him explain how a. the Illuminati make a decision to "solve" a problem they have created, then b. get the government and private groups to study the problem for years so that eventually it looks like their (secretly preplanned) decision is the best course of action for the country, and then c. their lackeys in the political process implement the decision supposedly for the "good of the people".
After 30 years of good financing for the mental institutions so they could do their assigned task of programming hundreds of thousands of people with tasks for the NWO, the Illuminati then set things up so that the mental institutions dumped their populations out onto the streets, where they can carry out the missions they had been programmed to carry out.
They next step was to privatize the prisons, which are being used for mind-control (not to mention hard-core porn of women victims in prisons). The Illuminatis long range plans for mind-control included that they would turn over the prisons to people like the Illuminatis Order of the Skull & Bones Wackenhut Services, Inc., Coral Gables, FL, (ph. no. 305-666-5656), and the Illuminatis GE Government Operations, Cherry Hill, NJ under James Becker at 609-486-5042. In the 18 page Heritage Foundations study of prison needs entitled "A Guide To Prison Privatization" (done on May 28, 1988, Wash. D.C.), the Heritage Foundations gives all the correct Illuminati answers to the question of privatization of prisons, including listing the following "corporations that provide prison services ... Behavioral Systems SW, Inc.,... Eckerd Family Youth Alternatives, Inc., ... GE Government Operations, Cherry Hill, NJ.. .Wackenhut."
All groups that this authors research indicates are Illuminati and involved with mind-control. An example of several studies that this author has obtained that were done to show us that privatization of prisons is the best answer to our problems is The Development, Present Status, and Future Potential of Correctional Privatization in America by Charles W. Thomas, Prof. of Criminology & Dir, of Private Corrections Project; Charles H. Logan, Prof. of Sociology, Univ. of Conn., & Visiting Fellow, Fed. Bureau of Prisons. This paper was done May 1991. Our government also got into the act and the GAO wrote up a govt. report in Feb. 1991 stating that the government could save money by privatizing prisons.
The Illuminati need their people seeded at all levels of society, at the gutter level as well as in palaces. This is where the stalkers, their leftover children used for programming are handy. Many of these stalkers had secret Illuminati lineages that are hidden via adoption. As one ex-Illuminati member said, "They are the weak links." The Illuminati must have dependable people everywhere, even in the gutter and prisons. Why create stalkers? There are a long list of reasons. It is somewhat difficult to explain unless readers are already familiar with the bigger picture. People, who have sat in on Illuminati meetings where their 20, 30, and 50 year plans were discussed, will explain how the Illuminati wanted to break down the family structures and bring violence into the schools.
This is Ordo ab chaos. However, the schools had rules to protect themselves from dangerous violent activity done by children, so they had to create violence in the streets, to get violence into the schools by the backdoor. Stalkers were part of the program to create violence. Another purpose stalkers serve for the Illuminati is that they make excellent spies if they get attached to someone. They will find out everything they can about that person. Their minds will creatively invent all kinds of ways to get information about their fixation. How does the Illuminati program a child to become a stalker? They have the programming techniques to create a stalker down to a fine science. In short, it consists of 1. they bond the child extremely close to its mother or a woman as it grows up. This creates a side-effect of homosexuality. The mental mechanics of this side-effect are that the male has an unmet need for men. The Illuminati will manipulate this latent homosexuality but not allow its expression.
They want to continue to strengthen the apron strings that attach the child to the mother image. Meanwhile they utterly destroy all self-respect and self-image of the child. It is totally disgraced so that its only identity is its identity with its mother figure. The child can not stand on its own two feet without the support of the mother-figure. When the boy approaches puberty, they are watched very closely by the Illuminati, be that in a military school or tightly controlled cult family setting, etc. They do not want the apron strings to ever be cut.
They want them to remain dependent when they would naturally become independent. They want to insure that the young boy doesnt develop a sense of who they are. The victim of stalker programming will never emotionally grow out of that age of about 11-13 when boys would sever the ties to their mother. They stop growing emotionally at about age 12. This is all carefully crafted by the Illuminati. These young men never understand themselves or their programming. They dont understand the impulses and uncontrollable drives that hit them. They cant get off their programming merry-go-round, because it is rooted in the first brain, their maternal instincts, the "reptilian brain" which has no conscience.
Their stalking of their mother figure is a survival instinct that they dont understand. They make good spies. They will persist in tracking and stalking a victim, until they break down the victims walls of privacy by their sheer tenacity, persistence, and force of will.
This is because it is a survival instinct that has been harnessed by the Illuminati programmer. Because this programming is laid in at the reptilian first brain level, these stalkers can be violent without a higher brain conscience, and their minds will manufacture some justification to protect this survival need to stalk. The mind protects itself, so they have a strong denial system. Every time someone "rejects" them, it triggers their programming. Because they are driven by their reptilian first brain (the various brains are explained later in this book) they only think in the here-and-now, long-term projects bore them, they dont have the stick-to-itiveness needed for many jobs, except their eternal quest for an identity with the mother-figure they stalk.
The Illuminati in its typical schizophrenic way, has not neglected the opportunities to begin the programming process in the womb. The scientific research in this area has been kept quiet, but from an ex-Illuminati programmer it is clear that they are aware of much more about the unborn child in the womb and its thinking processes than the public knows about. I was privileged to read the excellent book The Secret Life of the Unborn Child by Thomas Veiny, M.D. with John Kelly.
This book is written from a loving Christian viewpoint and incorporates scientific research about the thinking of unborn children. Interestingly, Veiny studied research into the mind of the fetus from researchers at the Max Plank Institute, Munich, Germany, from the Esalen Institute, Big Sur, CA., from the Center for Research on Birth and Human Development, Berkeley, CA which are all institutions involved in mind-control and mind-control research. Just one example of the learning abilities of the unborn child, an autistic child remembered the english her French speaking mother was around during work while the child was in the womb.
Veiny writes,
"The fetus can see, hear, experience, taste and, on a primitive level, even learn in utero (that is, in the uterus--before birth). Most importantly, he can feel--not with an adults sophistication, but feel nonetheless." (p. 12)
Research has clearly showed that the fetus can think and is shaping its (his or her) personality while in the womb. Maternal thoughts, feelings, actions, and fears all reach the child in the womb and affect the child. The maternal bonding with the child while in the womb is also critical.
Researchers have been unable to pinpoint when a baby in the womb begins to think, and have a consciousness, but some theorize that it goes back clear to the beginning of conception. One study taught fetus babies to kick on the cue of a vibration. The researchers have determined that the unborn child hears what is being said around it, and is beginning to associate its language skills around the voices it hears. The unborn child hears and reacts differently to different music played. Soothing words and soothing music will calm a fetus.
One conductor remembered into his adult years, the cello music that had only been played while he was an unborn child. According to excellent research, the start of awareness is clearly evidenced between the 28th and 32nd week. At that point, the brains neural circuits are just as advanced as a newborns. This is why the Illuminati can get away with causing so many preemie births to enhance dissociative abilities. From the 32nd week on the child shows that it carries out REM sleep. It is also interesting the children, teenagers and adults have widely divergent sleep patterns but the time spent in REM sleep stays constant.
Researchers have been able to trace memories going back to the sixth month of pregnancy. In other words, from the sixth month of pregnancy onward, some of what the unborn child learns will be remembered. (See pg. 23 of Varnys The Secret Life of the Unborn Child.) This is why the Illuminati has made a point of having the unborn child hear the voices of people who will play a role in the trauma and programming of the child. The child may already know the hypnotic voice of one of its cult programmers at birth. Researchers found that by playing a tape of a mothers heartbeat to new-born babies that the babies felt dramatically more secure, and were much healthier and did much better.
A child who has been trained to its fathers soothing voice in the womb, has been proven to remember it and hear it after birth and to respond to it in a positive way. In fact, the emotionally healthiest children have been found by researchers to have had their fathers voice in their life prior to birth. Unborn children do not like to be poked at. In the eighth week of life, the unborn child is already using his physical abilities to show that he dislikes intensely to be poked.
One of the early fetus traumas, that the Illuminati like to carry out is to poke the fetus with a sharp object to make it dissociative in the womb. By the fourth month, the unborn baby is making facial expressions. Four to eight weeks later they are sensitive to touch, and dont like to be tickled while in the womb. Sometimes children are tickled during medical exams. If cold water is injected into the mothers stomach, the baby intensely dislikes it. The child can be overwhelmed while in the womb with horrible sounds, bad tastes caused by what the mother eats, being touched in ways that it dislikes, etc. Rock music drives unborn children crazy. Programming drugs that cause particular thinking in the fetus can also be administered.
Can one see that the traumatization to cause MPD can easily start in the womb? In fact, with many Illuminati babies, they do create womb splits, and have even started trying to teach Christ to the child while in the womb, to speed up the process of when they will purposefully make the child feel rejected by God and to experience the black communion with Satan. The foundation of trauma-based total mind-control is fear. A deep spirit of fear cripples a person spiritually & emotionally. The foundation of fear can begin to be layered in while the child is still unborn.
The unborn child has near-sighted seeing. He can detect light shined on his mothers stomach. In fact, the fetuss eyes, which are living in a dark world, will hurt when light is shined onto the moms stomach. A long-term unresolved personal stress on the mother will be one of the worst stresses her unborn child has to deal with. Short term stresses dont seem to have the long term side effects that long term stress has. Short term stresses are soon forgotten by the child. Somehow, the love that the mother has for the child is transmitted to the child, and forms a protective shield so to speak for the child to resist traumas and stresses. When the mother is ambivalent (even though outwardly happy) or cool in their emotions, the babies have been proven by researchers to consistently have more physical and emotional problems.
If the Illuminati want to create an effeminate gay man, they can administer progesterone and estrogen to the mother during her pregnancy, and this will influence the development of male children to be effeminate. Certain researchers have been warning about the hormones that are in our daily food because modern techniques of raising cattle and producing milk include giving hormones to the animals.
It is also known that the childs concept of "I" the self starts in the womb. Those children who have had a secure womb feeling have been shown to be more confident with their sexual lives later on in life.
While those who were terrified in the womb had a tendency to have sexual problems. The traumas that are induced into some of the babies for programming purposes may have a destabilizing effect on the sexual stability later on in life, and it may be that the programmers take advantage of the unsure destabilized feelings that are a consequence of terror in the womb. Children born from induced labor have a statistically high relationship to sexual sadism, and males typically have masochistic personalities. (See pg. 19 of The Secret Life of the Unborn Child).
Since certain Illuminati children have their births induced to match certain dates of the year, this is one contributing factor as to why Illuminati males, born into bloodlines that have for centuries considered certain birthdates important, have such a high incidence of sadistic tendencies. Verny believes that C-section babies, due to what happens to babies during the birthing process in contrast to a normal birth, have certain emotional needs that later as adults are expressed as promiscuous lives.
Women due to their C-section birth, develop a deep seated desire to be held, and intercourse later becomes the price they have to pay to satisfy this deepseated need.
COMMON ILLUMINATI WORK WITH TWINS
The Illuminati mask the removal of babies from pregnant mothers with "alien abduction of fetus" cover stories.
When twins are in the uterus, it is common for the Illuminati to skillfully take one of them. This is part of why the disappearance rate for a twin baby is 75%. It is so prevalent that it has been given the name "the Vanishing Twin Phenomenon". The Vanishing Twin Phenomenon is well established by statistics. Establishment doctors generally claim that one twin has absorbed the other twin. Some researchers claim that this can not be the real explanation for any part of the birthing process.
Elizabeth Noble in her book Having Twins, (Houghton Mifflin, 1990) states,
"With increasing use of ultrasound, it has been observed that more multiples are lost in the uterus than previously thought--some studies say as high as 80 percent of twin pregnancies. Considering that there are still 2 in 75 people born as twins, what a great number of twins would be born if the disappearance rate were not so high. There are many cases of two heartbeats being detected only hours before the delivery, and yet only one baby being born. Many mothers have been suspicious, but the doctors tell them that the second heartbeat "was only a mistake."
The explanations that doctors give for disappearing babies who are never born often do not seem satisfactory.
There are different kinds of twins:
a. There are dizygotic, also called fraternal twins. Two variations of this is when eggs from two consecutive ovarian cycles are separately fertilized, or a single egg divides and each of its halves gets fertilized.
b. There are monozygotic, which are identical, or clones so to speak of each other. Identical twins are always of the same sex. They share the same genes, the same fingerprints, dental characteristics, etc.
c. There are monozygotic mirror twins, which have identical characteristics on opposite sides of their body.
When one twin disappears, the surviving twin will often develop psychological problems around the disappearance, even if the child is never told that they had a twin disappear. The Illuminati believe that the soul of a dead twin goes into the live twin. They consider twins which have two souls very powerful individuals. One doctor, William Baldwin, has written in his book Spirit Releasement Therapy: A Technique Manual that he believes that the dead twin astrally attaches its soul to the surviving twin. Dr. Alice Rose believes that some eating disorders are the result of a twin dying in the womb due to competition for food.
To further complicate things, the Illuminati program their slaves to believe that they have a twin somewhere. Elvis Presley, a Monarch mind-controlled slave, believed he had a twin that communicated with him spiritually. In the Angel Times magazine, (Oct. issue), a childhood friend of Elvis states that Elvis communicated with beings as a child. These being had showed Elvis a vision of dancing, and of people "dressed in white with colors all around."
While it is popular to dismiss the vanishing twin phenomena with superficial medical explanations, or with alien theories, at least of some of the phenomena is the result of the Illuminati s massive system of abuse, where they need babies for sacrifice, experiments and programming.
SELECTION OF ADULT CANDIDATES FOR MIND-CONTROL
There is an ongoing operation within the intelligence agencies to identify adults who would make good candidates for mind-control. For this reason, the CIA set up many years ago chains of weight-loss centers (as well as stop-smoking centers and stop-drinking centers) that help people with weight loss, & breaking drinking & smoking addictions. At these centers, people trained to identify clients with high levels of suggestibility have been identifying for the intelligence agencies, (esp. the CIA) potential mind-control victims. Intelligence assets are located around the country and even outside of the United States.
The perpetrators try to look for individuals that come through immigration, who come into county clinics and hospitals, government hospitals, etc. who have the following initial attributes:
a. they are over 120 I.Q.
b. they are alone without a support team of family and friends
c. they do well on their first session where hypnosis is clandestinely perpetrated on the individual
d. they have other attributes that can be exploited to the advantage of the intelligence groups.
If a person is identified at a weight-reduction center (which is a CIA front) as having a weight problem that needs to receive hospital treatment AND they are also highly suggestible, they will be subjected to mind-control while hospitalized.
According to one source, IF the individual, who has been a. spotted, b. singled out and c. placed under hypnosis without their consent, d. looks likes a useful candidate for mind-control to the psychologists and intelligence field officers, THEN a file will be started and they will be placed in a CALL FILE. The initial hypnotic session may be in a dirty doctors office, or in some cases in emergency rooms. Dirty doctors working in emergency room settings are careful to work undetected by clean hospital workers.
The hypnotic suggestion is implanted that the victim return at a particular date to a location where more detailed work can be done.
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 1.
A proper candidate, that is one with an I.Q. above 120 and proper hypnotic abilities, will be given a code cue, that is an alpha-numeric code, or a number or a word code that identifies them. This is embedded hypnotically. If the person has no relatives that are important, they will be instructed and secretly helped to move to a location chosen by the intelligence agencies. The programmers will cover their tracks so that what has happened at this level is deeply embedded in the subconscious mind & cant be retrieved.
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 2.
At this level the person is used operationally at very easy and unimportant tasks. He is also assigned someone. The hypnotist programmer is beginning to soften the victim up and make them more pliable to suggestions. If he successfully performs these small jobs that have been hypnotically written into the mind, then he will be given a RECALL SERVICE NOTICE by the person who is in contact with the victim. Now the person moves on to level 3, which is a fully operational level.
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 3.
When the victim is instructed to come in, they do not realize what is in store for them. Now their own personality will be re-written according to what script the programmers want it to have. The person will be set to carry out his instructions as needed. The slave will now be given specific trigger codes to carry out assignments. All field agents of the intelligence agencies get level 3 control.
This level is reserved for candidates who are very intelligent and very loyal to hypnotic commands. Victims of this level of mind-control will follow out any command they are given, whether it be suicidal or harmful. Because these victims of mind-control are now under total mind-control, just as many members of the Illuminati grow up under, the intelligence agencies want to protect their level 4 slaves. They will be given a new life along with a total new identity. All the credentials and paperwork that the new identity needs will be created. The slave has now received a totally new life, and whatever SCRIPT (agenda) the intelligence agencies want. The programming that was placed in up to level 3 is erased in a sense and an entire new life script is placed in. This is done with the use of drugs, deception, and other sophisticated mind-control techniques described in Vol. 2 and this book. Complete areas of memory are erased at this stage and then a new history is written into the pre-puberty area of memory. This takes some time, and is accomplished using a number of techniques our books have described. The old memory is erased and OVERWRIITEN with the new history and script. The brain assimilates this new knowledge as if it's always been there, because it feels comfortable putting something into a void spot. The programmers prefer to find a period in the original persons life when nothing happened. It is easy to erase a memory block when nothing significant is in original memory, i.e. it is basically blank anyway. As a sleeper the level 5 slave may marry and lead a relatively normal life. One clue that the person is going to be used on a mission is if he suddenly leaves his wife & goes somewhere. This may be a clue that the handlers are positioning the person for a mission. They may also have nullified the slaves external life, so there isnt the purpose of life to prevent a suicide mission.
U.S. GOVT. MIND-CONTROL LEVEL 5
This level is reserved for people with an I.Q. of at least 130. This level will require taking the slave to a special programming center, where they are taken down to the comatose level of subconscious awareness to place the programming in at the deepest levels of the mind. The victim may be comatose for days or months, and this requires a catheter in the neck, urinary and digestive tracts to keep the body properly functioning. Because the person will be hospitalized for quite a while, a popular cover story is that they had an automobile accident. Remember, in Vol. 2, it was discussed how Roseanne Barr (now an actress with MPD/DID) had as a teenager an "automobile accident" during which she received significant programming. Many of these level 5 slaves are placed as sleepers into organizations of all kinds, where they lead "normal lives." The level 5 triggers activate programs deeply embedded and NESTED into the memory of a person. A team of programmers work on level 5 slaves. They must make sure that the victim has a support system so that they do not self-destruct. They may have psychologists in normal life set up to serve as a support person for the slave. It was interesting to see that AFTER learning from people in the know about how memory is erased and a new identity given, that the show "No Where Man" portrayed this happening to a black man. Whoever wrote the scripts for No Where Man had an excellent understanding of what is going on in mind-control.
TESTING YOUNG CHILDREN TO PLAN THE PROGRAMMING.
In Vol. 2, chap.] it was explained how the programmers can test the preverbal child to determine & plan how they will program them.
EEGs & Gittingers Tests were discussed. Here is more information. Researchers have been able to study the personalities of unborn children and to watch how these personality traits stay with the children through their lives. In the Vol. 2 book it was explained how the Illuminati has used EEGs to determine the personalities of pre-verbal children so that they know what type of programming is best suited for that personality. Interestingly, on Mon., April 12, 96, 11 p.m. after the Vol. 2 book was out on the market, 20/20 did a show where they showed researchers using EEG electrodes to monitor childrens brainwaves for their happiness potential. It is known that brain potentials associated with voluntary movements have been identified, thereby giving big brother the potential to predict when a person is going to make a particular movement.
The brain is dynamically looking at patterns and continously generating hypnotheses about its environment which are then validated or invalidated by information picked up by the senses. The P300 wave (known as the P3 wave for short) allows neuroscientists to track decision making in a brains cortex. The P300 wave shows when the minds thought processes have been internally surprised. In this way, detection of the P300 gives a method of lie-detection superior to the polygraph. When surprised the brain creates P300 wave by internal brain functions--such as what chapt. 4 will call "cognitive demon processes".
Initially, EEGs are taken of child victims, with an analysis of the different wave forms. Next, will come tests of VERs (visually evoked responses). This is valuable for instance, because bright children will show asymmetric (high amplitude) responses during VERs from the right hemisphere. Children with low I.Q. show the same evoked response from both hemispheres. This is just one window on the mind that the Illuminati programmers have of the preverbal children. There are other evoked-potential tests that are being used to determine personality traits too. Evoked-responses can also be used to show whether the person is conscious, or how deep they are in a coma.
The early components of the evoked-response, which occur 10-20 milliseconds after a stimulus, are believed to come from the brain stem and can be used to determine a level of a coma. Evoked-responses are also used to determine particular learning disabilities within a child. Right-handed children will show even prior to birth, an anatomical specialization that favors language acquisition in the left hemisphere.
So they can even determine what handed-ness the child has very early on.
Image2.gif
Baron Guy de Rothschild, of France, has been the leading light of his bloodline. The Baron is an Illuminati Kingpin and slave programmer.
For those who have bought the cover story that the Catholic Church is not part of the Illuminatis NWO, I would point out that the Baron has worked with the Pope in programming slaves. This photo was picked for the trauma chapter because the Baron has a droopy left eye. Many of the deeper Illuminati alters show droopy left eyes due to the trauma they have received.
The authors are not aware of what the official explanation for his droopy left eye would be.
[back]
