# Deeper Insights 9: THE SCIENCE OF MIND MANIPULATION

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/mindcontrol2/part09.htm

CHAPTER 9: THE SCIENCE OF MIND MANIPULATION BY PSYCHOLOGICAL PROGRAMMING METHODS: BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION, PSYCHOLOGICAL MOTIVATION & NLP
[back]
"STRIPPED" OF FEELINGS
PROGRAMMING TO HIDE REVEALING DREAMS
PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
EFFECTS OF PROGRAMMING
FALSE IMPLANTED MEMORIES
PERCEPTION CLOUDS MEMORY
A persons "selfhood" is hard to define, but one could view it as the central important center of consciousness to which the person has placed both trust and purpose. A professor of Pastoral Counselling defined the self as "the purposive core I have learned to trust in myself and others." Although this author prefers his own wording as written above, the definition of "selfhood" by this professor of pastors is in agreement with this authors. A mature person is a person who has developed a "selfhood", a sense of self, that is able to make creative choices in line with values and plans for his or her life. By the destruction of the "selfhood" of many of the alters, the programmers derail the ability of the slave to make creative choices in line with values and plans. Not only do they destroy the sense of identity but they also destroy the development of values.
When a normal person grows up, the values, that an individual adopts, will enable that person to integrate his or her many actions into a cohesive unified agenda for living their life. What happens when a person is not able to adopt their own values, but is force fed values? What happens when the person does not even adopt any values, except to acquiesce to the brutal demands of a mind-control handler? The natural process for developing a unified agenda for life is cut short. The thinking of mankind is predicated on socialization with other humans. It is natural for people to want to work and be around other humans. The family, neighbourhood, city and nation all give an individual nurturing that fosters a sense of identity and values. What happens if an individual is cut off from society and most of humanity, in fact is even cut off from most of their own mind and will?
What typically happens in this situation is that the individual becomes demoralized, feels dehumanized, and as a person is enfeebled to deal with life. What happens when a person is not allowed to chose values freely, and allowed to give consideration to various alternatives and the consequences for these choices? It means that the person is not going to be happy with the choices they make, but will go through the motions of life in a rather dissociated manner. What happens when a person feels powerless? Feelings of powerlessness, can lead to feelings of meaningless. And meaningless makes an individual feel trapped by life. The meaninglessness imprisons a person. The person no longer has the freedom to make choices, and without choices has no real values, and without values life becomes meaningless.
The above situations are standard results of the total mind-control programming agenda. The persons natural built-in abilities to plan their life is short circuited. The person is demoralized and feels incomplete as a human because of his or hers lack of connectedness to their fellow humans, and as a result allows his or herself to be dependent upon the master. Because they are forced to do actions without any values, they dissociate their actions from feelings. Finally, they feel trapped because they have no values to give life meaning. A sexual slave will be forced to have sex. They are not allowed to have a value system, or else they would pick and choose who they wanted to have sex with. The result is that they feel dehumanized and they dissociate feelings from their actions. Without values, life feels like one big trap, with no purpose and no goals. The only purpose the slave has is to survive the brutality of its master, that is to stay alive.
Some slaves give up along the way, and are discarded as unsuccessful attempts by the Illuminati. The programming agenda prevents the natural God-given gift for mankind to make their own choices. As explained above, this in itself reinforces several items that the programmers have been intentionally creating such as dehumanization, isolation, dependence, and dissociation. It is built into human thinking to enjoy a sense of accomplishment. This happens when a person perceives his or her life as meaningful. The perception that his or her life is meaningful results in the person feeling power. Powerlessness and meaninglessness are two items that are related to each other when we understand human thinking. A normal child in a normal environment will naturally learn when to trust itself and when to trust others. This is important to the development of values. This is important for a person to become mature. The programmers short circuit this natural learning process.
The front alters continue learning who to trust and who not to trust, and when to trust oneself, because they hold the body from day to day. However, a special purpose child alter doesnt experience this. Without learning how to trust, it becomes hard to make decisions by ones self, and so the victim of mind-control transfers the right to make his or her choices to the programmer. By arresting the natural process of learning trust, the programmers detour the mind, so that it travels right where they want the mind to be.
Normally, a child would grow up, and as it grew up would realize that not everyone can be trusted. He would also come to realize that even his own self at times can not be trusted. Yet, the child would also learn that there are times that people can be trusted. This maturation of awareness moves a person from being dependent toward being independent. The programmed slave is afraid of seeking true love, and to find authentic relationships with people. Without these things, they remain incomplete and more pliable to the control of the master, who then attempts to provide in some substitute manner some of the things the slave should have developed for himself.
Many of the slaves deeper alters do not have the capacity to creatively look forward to the future, with the understanding that they can create their own life, their own future. The process of maturation that would have given that ability to them has been prevented from taking place. If these deeper alters do not experience life outside of their programmed trance states, they will have no chance to mature and to realize that they are capable to design and create their own future. Rather, the slave endures life with anxiety and dissociation, and limits his mental horizons to the present. The big reference point the slave has is to their master and his commands.
Many of the slaves alters are limited in their freedom to really have consciousness. Their thinking is below the definitions of conscious behavior--it is simply programmed behavior. Our consciousness has a big role in how we perceive the world. How we perceive the world in turn determines our values. The programmers can disrupt the process of a slave obtaining values in life, by disrupting the consciousness. Values in life are important in determining how we build our world-view, our frames of reference. The programmer constructs various worlds for most of the alters (except for the front alters). These alters are never given the chance for what psychologists would label "conscious behavior". Reality is not part of the package. Choice is not part of the package.
In normal life, conscious behavior is developed by interaction between a person and his environment and the freedom to make real choices. The bare necessities are grudgingly provided in a haphazard way to the alters of a total mind-controlled slave, so that IF they are aware of their needs, it is at a very basic level, such as survival, and security and warmth. A fully conscious individual has gone way beyond that to realizing his or hers needs for creativity, intimacy, community, justice, integrity, and spiritual fulfilment.
The challenge for the slave master will be to balance the freedom of activity and maturity of the front part of the slaves alters, with the control that the slave master needs to accomplish his nefarious goals. It is safer to bring a slave up to have a world view dependent on others that lends itself to the owners agenda such as witchcraft values & a witchcraft world-view, or a Mormon/ or Jehovahs Witness/or Catholic world-view of obedience to the church, THAN to have the slaves front alters becoming independent self-directed mature thinkers.
It doesnt matter whether the persons front alters are Jehovahs Witnesses, Mormon or Catholic, they have surrendered their personal sense of power and control to institutional control. The victim ceases to do things because of personal choice, but accepts institutional values as a cog in a machine; and the person, whether they realize it or not, loses meaning in their life. Personal choice, value and meaning in life are all related. Because man is made in the image of God, he has an inherent desire to have meaning to his life. Mankind also has a desire to be in unity with his environment. This is also a God-given desire. To make himself feel at home in this world, man spends much of his activity taming and domesticating the wild world to conform to what feels comfortable. What happens when this is stripped from a person?
In order to provide substitute answers to these desires of the slave, the Illuminatis covens provide rituals. Rituals make the slave feel that some order is being brought out of the chaos and nonsense of life. But true meaning in life can only come from realizing the goals of our actual Creator, Almighty God. Substitutes for this, leave people unfulfilled and weak. Of course, the unfulfilled weak sense of meaning in life of the Illuminati members, can weaken some in their ability to realize their true spiritual potential. It becomes a vicious cycle of low base evil goals. Who will provide the safety for the deeper alters to move out independently in life? and then further, who will teach the deeper alters the social skills, and the other skills to step out and grow? Even if the complex programming should break its death-grip on an alter, (which seldom happens) an alter can not find freedom without some outside support system providing safety and instruction. The bondage that most deeper alters remain fixed in, is a very complex bondage of body, mind, and spirit. This complex bondage calls for group package answers, that address the type of issues that have been raised on these last two pages. The lack of this type of answer insures that few slaves will find full freedom. Partial freedom is still slavery.
On the flip side, because deeper alters have not had a chance to develop their own values, make their own choices, and experience reality, the power of the programs will be diluted simply by real life. This occurs even in the absence of intense deprogramming. One of the weaknesses of the programming is that the handlers often fail to allow alters to ever establish real personal values. Hand-me-down values that are accepted under duress or torture, are quickly discarded if the alters ever do get free.
Illuminati slaves who accept the values of the Illuminati, and progress to positions of power can be resistant to freedom, because they have internalized for themselves a value system, have some feelings of self-worth and self-competence. The Illuminati have long understood the value in having their members progress through the levels of initiation, and to pass through tests that bestow a sense of achievement upon the slave. When the Illuminati in Bavaria had their safe houses raided, their paperwork showed extensive disciple and training programs. At first glance, raising an initiate through an initiate degree system of training may not smack of mind-control, but it is like an anchor that ties in the mind-control. It is important for the Illuminati to attach an occult value system to the mind-control so that the slave is more resistant to wanting freedom, because their self-worth and identity are tied up with the Illuminati.
Another side-effect of the total mind-control is that the deeper alters of a victim, and indeed often even the front alters are unsuccessful in morally meaningful relationships such as love and friendship. The reader may be wondering, what does Fritz mean by "morally meaningful"? Allow me to take several paragraphs to explain ... Has the reader ever tried to recall a name which you knew, but your mind seems blocked? And yet, when someone offers this name or that name, you realize that it doesnt have the correct feel, the correct rhythm, the correct beginning. Your mind can recognize what it is looking for on a subconscious level, but you are not pulling the name up to the conscious. Your mind can look for things on a subconscious level and identify what it is looking for, without consciously telling you.
Has the reader ever loved someone for many years? If you have, you know that you didnt consciously think of them and your love for them every second of the day. Grief or love or another strong emotion can lay in our subconscious mind and yet still influence our thinking. It is not a matter of us turning this love on. It simply is there quietly in the background exerting its influence on our mind.
Grief, love, anger, and other strong emotions are similar to when our mind is seeking for a name subconsciously. These emotions seek out the appropriate scenes, and items in the surrounding area, and colors and sounds that go with the emotion that the subconscious mind feels. A blue person will notice "blue, sad" type things around them. Other things just dont fit the subconscious fill in the blank. In other words, our emotions determine our perspective on what we see in life. Our emotional perspective guides what items our mind focuses on. This is why it is absolutely imperative for balanced human growth that a person feel compassion, love and sympathy directed toward oneself.
Feeling loved in turn opens the mind to focus its emotional-perception-guidance system on compassion, love and sympathy. In contrast with most people, many parts of total mind-controlled slaves are never meant to have feelings, or if the parts do, they repressed, suppress, and dissociate their feelings. Our emotions play a fundamental role in a persons moral life. They transform values into actions. This is what is called strength of will, courage of convictions, etc. Emotions play a critical role in strength of will and courage of convictions.
To be stripped of feeling emotions, strips the victim of one of the ingredients to make and carry out moral choices. This helps explain why emotions are harnessed so completely by the programmers. When researchers have studied unemotional people, they find that their dealings with others are shallow, lifeless, and mechanical. The programmers want their programmed assassins, espionage agents, prostitutes, etc. to be mechanical. People rarely want to form friendships with unemotional persons. Of course, the parts that are created to interface with the public are programmed to be effacious, gracious, and to sparkle. But the deeper parts which influence the victims own internal thoughts, which the victim wisely keeps to himself, fail to connect with the outside world emotionally.
Having been stripped of emotions, the slave is consequently stripped of one of the most important ingredients involved in morality. An unemotional or emotionally deficient person or alter may suffer from a particular kind of a "morally-weak will". This is because failure to do what a person believes is good and failure to restrain from doing what one believes is bad is a natural consequence of lacking emotions such as care, concern, compassion, courage, love and sympathy. Certain emotions are critical for doing and being moved to do what is right and in not doing what one knows is bad.
Friendships are one of the most valuable commodities a person can have. The victim is stripped of external friendships. They may substitute interactions within their own internal world as a way to substitute for this loss. In normal human activity, two people in love intertwine the activities of their lives into the complex whole of their love relationship. A walk together is not seen as a walk, but as a joint expression of their relationship.
Humans emotionally value what is good for their friends and lovers. Without emotional attachments, the relationship is only a facade. The victims of mind-control are taught how to create great facades. Unfortunately, they fool many of their therapists, and therefore dont step out of the make-believe roles they play out.
Human love and friendship is one of the most vital, powerful, fundamentally good items of human behaviour. They provide the foundation for many other things. Without love and friendship, the victims alters live in isolation, alienation, abandonment, discontinuity, and purposelessness. Ciscos half of the book will discuss some specific programming tactics that are used to hide the "shadow" alters that are used to take any emotions that the principally used alters might develop. What we have been covering is that one of the side effects of "stripping" the victims from feeling emotions is to cripple them from taking moral stands, from seeing love & concern in the world around them, and from reaching out & forming ties to the outside world.
PROGRAMMING TO HIDE REVEALING DREAMS
The programmers realize that the mind is able to reveal secrets via dreams. During the programming a Mother-of-darkness will be assigned to a child and she will have to wake that child up when it is in its deepest sleep to ask the child whats happening and if the child is dreaming. If dreams are surfacing, the programmers know their programming is not holding.
When the childs mind which is being programmed no longer releases revealing dreams, the programmers know that their programming is holding. The front alters receive repeated programming (hypnotic commands, etc.) not to dream or to know their dreams. When the programming begins to collapse, the deeper alters will begin to dream and flood with memories. The slave must have their dream sealing programs reinstated approx. every three years. If this is not done, dreams (which are actually memories) will begin to surface. A therapist can also help the victim train their mind to remember their dreams (dream state of mind).
A skilful programmer can use language to communicate at several levels. The programmer can use derogatory tones, big words that the child doesnt understand and obscure language that confuses the child in order to humiliate, dominate and confuse the child. He can also pronounce the words with a twist in order to protect the programming. Have you ever met someone in the occult world who pronounces many of his words strange? The programmers are also big on play on words which are done intentionally to protect the programming. The victims of the occult programming must deal with symbology. Those who attempt to understand programming must also deal with the world of symbology.
The programmer must learn to think like a child and to step into the childs world. Likewise, the deprogrammer must learn to step into the victims world. Certainly, the deprogrammer wants to stay grounded in reality, but he also wants to be able to understand the world that the victim must live in. The deeper parts of the victim lives in a magical world, full of demons and powers from other dimensions. When the Illuminati carry out programming, they often frame what they are doing in magical and satanic terms.
Most therapists do not want to step into the victims world to communicate with them. Just as the psychologists want this author to step into the psychologists world to communicate with them, the psychologist should realize that the victim would like the same. It is irrelevant whether the therapist believes that objects can be demonized or not. The deeper alters have spent their life-time learning how demons attach themselves to objects, and how to gain power to cause demons to attach themselves to objects. A deeper alter may have the occult wisdom to place demons into a fluid so that that fluid can be drank by a child. From their understanding of demonology, these demons are so powerful that the only non-lethal entry for them into the child is by the child drinking a particular fluid. These images are the images that deeper alters experience during the programming rituals. The language & images of the programming will be very magical, mystical and satanic.
The mind is a holographic type of memory. The psyche of the multiple personality is a multiple image hologram. The body is set up to match the mind. When one alter switches to another, another hologram seems to take control over the mind. This is like the instructions for the body are written on a card, and when the switch occurs, the holographic cards are shuffled like a deck of cards. In fact, the programming have used this analogy as part of their programming codes.
Once the truth about trauma-based mind-control began coming out, a massive counterattack by the controlled establishment occurred. This counter attack was that you can not trust the memories of the victims. Numerous establishment articles call attention to memory research, especially memory research into how to implant an illusory memory.
Two examples of this massive counterattack are Bruce Bowers article in Science News, 8/24/96, pp. 126-127 entitled "Remembrance of Things False Scientists incite illusory memories and explore their implications".& Harvard psychologist Daniel L. Schacters book Searching for Memory (1996).
First, these countless articles prove that the controlled psychiatric research community is working hard at developing techniques to implant false memories. This is indeed a big part of the mind-control, producing cover memories and false identities and false histories for alters. However, these articles always ignore the enormous evidence of severe abuse and government/cult involvement in the lives of countless victims of mind-control. This author has seen first hand the Illuminati-satanic cult-CIA involvement in the lives of a number of these people. The events of these peoples lives, which this author has often witnessed, cant be explained away by poor memory. Further, traumas that are so severe as to cause amnesia walls, are locked up by the mind and preserved. They are like a mummy in a tomb in Egypt, that is still locked up in its preserved state. Memories that arent locked up can deteriate and be contaminated, just like a dead body that is left to rot, but programming traumas are not in that category of memory. Remember, the mind protect itself. Research shows that the mind does not want to latch onto false memories that hurt it. For instance, when researchers try to get subjects to remember a kind parent hurting them, the mind will resist the false memory.
The brain in order to be efficient uses its framework of knowledge--its world view--in which to hang new incoming knowledge. This authors Be Wise As Serpents book considered this to be the biggest barrier to people coming to the truth. Because education, television and society in general control how peoples framework of knowledge is built, and these frameworks are built skilfully to exclude major truths that would expose how the World Order is controlling mankind, it is really difficult to speak to people about mind-control, and the control of the world in general.
The victim of mind-control has frameworks built into his subconscious that make it difficult to drive the truth into their thinking. Memories are stored as they relate to these frameworks. An efficient way around that is to speak and teach in way that the subconscious mind is spoken to, and the conscious barriers are by-passed. The mind puts up a grid to prevent non-approved information from coming in that doesnt fit its accepted concept of truth. Much of this grid is fear based. The problem for the victim is that once their mind is bent a certain way by the programmers, it will naturally create a grid to protect the programmed world-view.
This is why the external philosophies-news broadcasts-disinformation from establishment magazines, etc. that are layered in on top of programming, (see Chapter 12) are like a protective coat sprayed on to make sure the foundation doesnt weather over time. For instance, the front alters of some of the most severely tortured victims have latched onto the idea that Satanic Ritual Abuse doesnt exist, and are actually some of the greatest public crusaders against people believing that SRA exists. The external politically-correct view is in this case protecting the deeper programming.
FALSE FEELINGS. Using drugs & hypnosis, and the creation story about God breathing things into existence, the "love" & "kindness" of the programmer is placed into Moriah the Wind. When this is done, should a gatekeeper alter hear something negative about their master, they instantly go into the melting (drug memory) where drugs made them feel one with their programmer. This is refrained during programming as "the peace of God."
ELDETIC IMAGERY. There is a type of visual imagery called eidetic imagery. 5 to 10 % of children have it, but it is very rare in adults. Eidetic imagery is similar to a photographic memory. People with eidetic imagery can look at any object or page of numbers and when they look away the image of what they have seen is as clear as a photograph. They can focus on any detail of the image, enlarge it, make out more details than what they had originally seen, and then they can carry this image with them for several days, just like the rest of us carry a photograph. This author has not seen much info on this, & believes that further research into this topic might reveal some more methods that the mind-control programmers are utilizing. Child-hood impressions & memories can have a far greater impact and retention than adult memories. This paragraph has only introduced this subject of eidetic imagery & childhood vs adult memory ability.
FINAL SUMMATION. The programming regimen destroys the victims sense of self, so that the person has only an identity within the cult. The victim can not express rage over their own victimization, but is encouraged by the Illuminatis satanic beliefs to express violence & rage toward others, thereby creating a mechanism to help perpetuate the mind-control. The rage also seeps out as self-punishment. A deep loneliness sets into victims, & they despair of hope. They see no place to turn to except to whatever cult is controlling them. This chapter has focused on the type of skills & knowledge psychologists study, & how this knowledge can be applied to insuring compliance by the slave.
p_9-2.jpg
[back]
