# Deeper Insights 8: THE SCIENCE OF BODY MANIPULATION & PROGRAMMING

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/mindcontrol2/part08.htm

CHAPTER 8: THE SCIENCE OF BODY MANIPULATION & PROGRAMMING
[back]
A. CRANIAL MANIPULATION
INTRODUCTION
CRANIAL BLOOD PRESSURE has been kept a SECRET
CEREBRAL SPINAL FLUID kept SECRET
THE CHINESE SECRET OCCULT SOCIETY CONNECTION
The ancient EGYPTIAN CONNECTION
THE TIBETAN CONNECTION
ANOTHER EXAMPLE
THE JAPANESE CONNECTION
THE EARLY EUROPEAN OCCULT CONNECTION
NINETEENTH CENTURY OCCULT CONNECTION
THE WITCHCRAFT CONNECTION
Phrenology
THE MODERN AMERICAN OCCULT CONNECTION
Osteopathy and chiropractic
Anne L. Wales
BONE & SKULL STRUCTURE
CEREBROSPINAL FLUID
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION (TM) & the HINDU CONNECTION
The 3-in-One school Connection.
Applied Kinesiology
B. GENETIC MANIPULATION
Transgenic humans
Chimeras
USING RADIATION & CHEMICALS TO CHANGE GENETICS associated WITH THINKING
WHAT WEVE COVERED
Implants that manipulate the body and its functions have been discussed in Chapter 6. The body manipulating implants were placed there to keep all of the implant information intact in one chapter, even though some body manipulating implants are not electrically activated. When our previous book The Illuminati Formula Used to Create an Undetectable Total Mind Controlled Slave (1996) covered the 12 Sciences of mind-control, its chapter 8 on the manipulation of the human body did not cover the ancient secrets of cranial manipulation, nor the modern secrets of genetic mind manipulation via applications of radiation with chemicals.
A. CRANIAL MANIPULATION--Important Top Secrets of Illuminati Mind-control disguised as Muggings & other events.
The information in this section exposes a previously unknown type of mind-control.
· The woman ran tripping through the woods, slipping on the wet leaves attacked by an unknown assailant for an unknown reason. The report of her mugging the next day never gets beyond the policeman who hears her story.
· A wife cries softly to herself as her husband beats her. The crime goes unnoticed in a busy world.
What do these acts of violence have in common with orthodontics, orthopedics, rolfing and other structural treatments? The shocking fact is that some of these kind of events happen for purposes of mind control. Any trauma to the head, be it an accidental fall, a fight, a bullet wound, or a motorcycle or car accident can cause permanent structural brain injury. But what passes for accidents are at times carefully designed & brilliantly executed cranial manipulations designed by the Illuminati to create specific mental and personality changes.
In order to get closer to the bottom of this type of mind-control, the author, Fritz, obtained the same books that cranial osteopaths study, and the same books that disclose the modern scientific studies of head shape/facial features in relation to personality, and then studied them. This author has tried to get as close as an outsider can get to understanding what a cranial-manipulating programmer has going on in his head. Until this chapter was published, the Illuminatis ability to perpetrate this mind control has been a complete secret. This is the first time that this secret has ever reached the public light of day. It is a secret known only to a handful of people in the world. It is a secret that various parts of Satans realm have carefully guarded for centuries. How I got this secret is a long story. It is the confluence of many streams of research coming together. The people, who carry out this type of programming hate the God of the Holy Bible.
This arts academys own literature speaks about "the Force". "The Mysterious Vital Force is a Universal Power of Intelligence present in all things." (Direct quote from the Cranial Academys official newsletter). This is a Force similar to Jungs "Collective unconsciousness" and Star Wars The Force. The God of the Universe, who loves each and every person in spite of their hatefulness & rejection, has also warned that all things will be revealed.
If I didnt write this, God would simply seek some other avenue to expose these hideous secrets. Who would have imagined that the Illuminati and a particular aspect of their mind control would end up to be connected to Transcendental Meditation, Kung Fu, modern Osteopathy, Theosophy and the Rosicrucians? None of us who research these groups are surprised that they are all tied together in the occult via the SPIN principle. However, you may be surprised by how they are also all affiliated to this form of mind control, which can be disguised as a typical mugging!
Even the Mafia are able to produce heartless criminal alters using cranial manipulation, and they dont have the best skills at doing it either. How do victims of cranial mind-control respond? Most victims follow the subtle guidance of their mind, completely ignorant of why their mind wants to go a particular direction. Some even attribute their mental drives to the metaphysical world. This authors hope is that the truth of this chapter will help restore free will to numerous victims of this secret mind-control technique. In spite of the extreme lack of information on this type of mind-control, it appears to have been more widely used than one might have guessed.
The benefit of this type of mind-control to the programmers is that a change in the body and head structure of a victim is permanent and undetectable, in contrast to hypnotic or drug induced states. A further benefit, is that a skilled person could be tampered with without their realization. Some of the procedures reduce the alertness of the subject, separate him from his memories and make the person more receptive to other forms of mind-control even if the subject has had no prior programming.
One example of a technique that causes a rapid adaption of the cranial bones with an accompanying neurological effect would be to flick the occiput posteriorly and inferiorly on exhalation (extension), then lift the vault (parietal) bones up from the temporal area on inhalation (flexion), then rapidly draw the vault posteriorly and inferiorly, then dislocate the sphenoid into a vertical or lateral strain position. These procedures will also speed up the appearance of aging. This is just one example of a quick procedure to control the mind of another. And as Ciscos section will bring out, power (including power over other humans) is the goal of the occult underworld.
A lot of research has gone into producing this finished report. At first glance, the polished nature of this chapters report, which is replete with so many sources, may tend to mislead some people into thinking that this type of mind-control hasnt been secret. Quite to the contrary, the pieces of the puzzle were well hidden. This type of mind-control has been very secret and it is only the result of long hard research that the many divergent pieces of the puzzle have been assembled and placed into a coherent picture for the reader. Although the possibility exists that some may misapply the intent of this chapter and use this for evil, like so much of this books material the really bad guys already have it. On the flip side, the potential for good, if medical science will use this secret knowledge for good is tremendous.
For instance, compare the improved appearance of Ivana Trump after her cranial work was done. This chapter has the potential positive by-product that others will be inspired to explore how cranial manipulation can be used to benefit humankind. God is in the business of turning evil into good. But perhaps in our fallen corrupted world, this secret knowledge which is being exposed in this chapter will no longer find good men worthy of this information who are also capable enough to put it to good practice. If so, then so be it. At the very least, some people will gain strength of heart to realize once again that when one knows how Gods creation operates--it is easy to see how a paradise without problems could be created. Mans worst enemy is man. The Illuminati are sitting on technology and knowledge that could bring about almost a virtual paradise, but they are hoarding this technology and knowledge, and suppressing it. Further, rather than helping mankind, they are using this cranial knowledge to reward those who are friendly to their Luciferian hierarchy, and to abuse those who dare to seriously impede their agenda. After you read this chapter and are aware that the secrets of cranial manipulation could rescue children with cerebral palsy, and some of the children with Down syndrome, you too will cry with this author at the needless suffering that the Illuminati have perpetrated upon mankind in their quest for total domination of this globe.
CRANIAL BLOOD PRESSURE has been kept a SECRET
Recently, a Dr. Yoshiaki Omura in New York, discovered that the blood pressure in the brain is vastly different than the rest of the body. The blood pressure in the brain has major consequences on ones thinking (such as irritability, & insomnia) and also affects other things in the body, such as muscle tightness in the neck. High brain blood pressure is called cephalic hypotension syndrome. Yet, when this doctor went to see what the medical books/research institutions said about brain blood pressure, he found nothing. He has been making his discoveries known in speaking engagements. He recently addressed a large audience of Chinese doctors. When this author met Yoshiaki Omura, I unsuccessfully attempted to tell Yoshiaki the reason that this knowledge was suppressed was in the interest of mind-control; Dr. Omura has been treating various illnesses by working with patients brain blood-pressure. The diagnosis of other problems, such as the early stages of cancer, has been done earlier by Omura by monitoring brain blood pressure levels than MRI tests results.
CEREBRAL SPINAL FLUID kept SECRET
Another important fluid in the brain, discovered by others is Cerebral spinal fluid. There are many technical details about this CS fluid that are extremely important to the way the mind-body functions. In this chapter, we will discuss a number of areas of medical science, acupuncture, personology etc. concerning the brain, which when known and used by skilled practitioners can give the practitioner control over another person.
The Mystery Schools and particular bloodlines have kept much of this knowledge to themselves and continue to keep the best secrets. Daniel Whiteside, a pioneer in behavior genetics and understanding the relationship of the shape of the skull to personality, provides some important confirmations of how the Mystery Schools transmitted this secret cranial knowledge.
In his important work "The Background of Structure/Function" (pp.2-3) he outlines that Structure/Function was studied and taught by the Greek Mystery Schools, and was the basis of the Roman Empires psychology. The Catholic church suppressed this knowledge. This knowledge was kept alive by the Cabalistic philosophers and the Arabs, until the Knights Templars brought it back. If we build upon the information that Daniel has provided we discover that from the Knights Templars, this knowledge went to the leadership of the Prieure de Sion, who in turn disseminated low forms of it to the occult groups that they controlled. For instance, the Rosicrucian Order for North & South America in their Vol. 8 of their Rosicrucian Manual (San Jose, CA: Supreme Grand Lodge AMORC) pp. 91-108 deals with the spinal column, nerves, & the influence of color & music on the nervous system, etc. Grand Master Lewis writes on pg. 103,
"The Rosicrucians were the first to have a complete outline of this system [nervous system] and to know exactly what part of the human body was connected with every other part."
One witness reported to this author that he watched an acupuncture specialist repeatedly work on clients brains by inserting 3 long skinny needles through the skull. The acupuncture specialist bragged to this man that he could completely control a human via his skill with the needles. He showed this witness how he could kill pain, and how he could kill self-will by touching minute areas within the brain. He was also skilled in manipulating the mind of the client in other ways too with the needles.
There has been a great deal of research into determining what the different purposes of the different areas of the brain are. Several researchers have independently identified that the ability to make choices, that is what we call "free will", is located near the Broadman Area 24 in the Anterior Cingulate Sulcus. Tampering with this area can disturb a persons ability to have free will. (For more information on this one could begin with Crick, Francis. The Astonishing Hypothesis The Scientific Search for the Soul.)
Acupuncture was virtually unknown to mainstream Americans until a NY Times journalist in China reported that he was successfully treated with acupuncture in 1971. Pressure points can also be manipulated by Acupressure, which is similar to acupuncture except fingers rather than needles are used. This is just one example of a related technique which went unnoticed for decades (actually centuries by the Western World.)
The mugging-mind control information in this article has gone unnoticed by mainstream America too. Time Magazine, Nov. 4, 1991, reported that there are four types of alternative medicine, which they classified as:
Life-Style (such as Macrobiotics, Ayurvedic medicine, and holistic medicine)
Botanical (such as Homeopathy, Herbalism, and Aromatherapy)
Mental healings (such as with Crystals, Guided imagery, biofeedback and Hypnotherapy)
Manipulative/Hands-on (such as Reflexology, Rolfing, Shiatsu, Alexander tech., Chiropractic, and Acupressure & Acupuncture)
Reflexology dates back to at least 2330 B.C. in Egypt. Shiatsu is a Japanese finger pressure deep massage of pressure points is over 1,000 years old. The skull & head bone manipulations that are being exposed for the first time in this report, were used in ancient Egypt and other parts of the ancient world. That Nov., 91 Time Magazine article did not mention that acupressure/acupuncture has been knowledge that the secret societies in China studied and often kept hidden for centuries, as a part of Wushu (martial arts) in China.
For instance, in a recent Chinese book 72 Consummate Arts Secrets of the Shaolin Temple, (pub. by Fujian Science & Technology Pub. Co. Ltd., Fujian, China, 1990) by Wu Jiaming and translated by Rou Gang, diagrams and explanations are given of the important head/body points (for acupressure/ acupuncture/& kung fu.) What is important for our discussion on mind control are the Kung Fu (Wushu) points in the head. This book gives 4 points on the front of the head, seven on the side of the head, and four on the back side of the head. The Shaolin Buddhist monks have kept their martial arts (which is called "Kung-fu" in the U.S. and "Wushu" in China) a secret hidden within their temple on Song Mountain, Henan Province. This Buddhist monastery has a long history of teaching kung-fu and is exerting a big influence in the world as its type of kung fu spreads. The Japanese took kung-fu from the Chinese many years ago and then developed from it specialized forms of kung-fu, such as Karate, Judo, etc.
THE CHINESE SECRET OCCULT SOCIETY CONNECTION
The important item that this paragraph will emphasize is that the Chinese secret societies studied the pressure points on the skull completely. They learned how the skull could be manipulated and what it would do to a person. Of course this information was only revealed to the best Chinese kung-fu experts. It is sometimes referred to as the skill of bone setting. In China, bone-setters are a type of Chinese doctor which are popular to some Chinese. These bone-setters have kept their secrets within many generations of families who specialize in bone-setting and also within the secret Triad societies.
The Communist government admitted that it has failed to pry family bone-setting secrets from the families that have passed these secrets down generationally. This is due in part to the strong Chinese belief in ancestor worship and strong families. A familys secrets are considered one source of its strength. One communist Chinese tactic to pry the secrets loose was their "folkart barefoot doctor" system which they hoped the bone-setters would join.
Junxie Li wrote in 1990 that a Chinese Kung Fu document shows that bone manipulation was practiced as early as 2700 B.C. The secrets have been passed down for many years. An American writer stated in 1983, "Traditional Chinese medicine and chiropractic are remarkably alike in their underlying theories...Through deep massage at the occiput [head bone], for example, (contemporary) Chinese practitioners find that they can bring down high blood pressure, a practice analogous to that of chiropractors."
A Buddhist monk Bodhidharma is credited to having brought the martial arts and healing arts associated with martial arts to China. He must have been a very strong individual to have made the 2,500 miles journey which back before there were paths or maps must have been more like an 8,000 miles of perilous journey on foot from India over the Himalayas to the Chinese interior. Bodhidharma had studied big cats, dogs, bears, insects and other animals to learn how they defend and attack. His physical, mental and spiritual teachings became known later as Zen Buddhism. His monastery became the famous Shaolin Monastery. A master of the Shaolin Monastery would have two dragons deeply branded into his flesh. It is said that the Red Dragon represented knowledge in ancient China.
In the Tang Dynasty (6 18-907 A.D.) some of the Kung Fu experts at that time were Li Bai and Twelfth Sister Li of the Li family. Madame Gong Sun and Twelfth Sister Li composed a famous Xihe Sword Dance combining martial arts and choreographic arts. The Li family kept some of their secret martial arts skills (including bone setting) secret for hundreds of years, and as a top Illuminati family are secretly proud of their occult knowledge and history.
To illustrate how the head has been studied are some quotes from 72 Consummate Arts Secrets of the Shaolin Temple,
"TAJYANG ACUPOINT (Sun Acupoint)
Located on both sides of the forehead, the left being Tai Yang and the right Tai Yin. Nowadays it is generally called Taiyang Acupoint being a vital part of the head. It is Dead Acupoint among the twenty-four Acupoints. One will be faint or even die if it is slightly seized.
TAINRONG ACUPOINT
Located on the back of ears and is in parallel with the ear. It lies on the outer-side of Fen Yi Acupoint, and is above the Tian Chuang acupoint. It is a vital acupoint of the back of ones head. It is also a Dead Acupoint among the twenty-four acupoints.
FENGFU ACUPOINT
Located in the centre of the low part of ones back head and is below the Naohu Acupoint but above the Yamen Acupoint. Its in parallel with the left and right FenYi Acupoint. It is a single Acupoint. It is a vital part of ones back brain. It is a Dead Acupoint, too. If this acupoint is seized, one may faint or die immediately."
Washu (Chinese Martial Arts) went underground into the Chinese occult secret societies, because the rulers feared that it would make the common people too powerful, so they frequently banned the teaching of martial arts. The teachers of Kung fu teach their pupils that Kung-Fu has both an external work with the hands, feet and body and an internal work which refers to the occult spiritual work that provides the energy and spirit to do the martial arts that Kung fu masters do.
The Shaolin Temple masters have studied the human skeleton very closely for centuries. The books Shaolin Long Fist Kung-Fu by Yang Jwing-Ming & Jeff Bolt and The Way of the Sun Dragon Chinese Martial Art of Tai-Yang Lung Tao are other examples of books in English which also show points to hit on the head. The art of manipulating the skull and other bones has travelled from the secret societies to about 20% of Chinas doctors. As mentioned, this skill is called "bone setting."
Some Kung Fu experts and Chinese doctors learn bone setting, including how to work with the skull bones. In 1974, the U.S. Dept. of Health, Education and Welfare (which has been full of New Agers) along with the Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of Health which works with WHO of the U.N. set up a conference in Seattle, WA which focused on Health Care in China. The U.S. Government Printing Office then printed up in 1975 edited versions of the papers presented at the conference. The resulting book on Medicine in Chinese Cultures has some very pertinent information to the ancient secret Chinese art of manipulating skull bones. After W.W. II, Chinese bone setters began to use X-rays. (p. 261)
· The Chinese bone setters had their own professional associations. (p. 261-262)
· Bone-setters societies have been interwoven with secret societies, the link being Chinese kung-fu (martial arts) which the secret societies control. "Bone-setters get their knowledge of anatomy from practicing kung-fu, for part of the instruction is in how the bones and muscles work." (p. 262.)
· Bone-setters, in order to practice in Hong Kong, generally find it advantageous to get (buy) protection from the Triads (Chinese Secret Societies controlled by the Li Illuminati family, as well as other powerful Chinese families.) Doctors are licensed in Hong Kong according to British standards and bone-setters have not received much recognition from the British government. But someone connected with the CIA verbally let out that they have been very interested in studying Chinese bone setting.
Tai Chi, is the philosophy associated in China with the yin-yang. It is incorporated into the name Tai Chi Chuan (Great Origin Fist) which are the calisthenics which many chinese practice on a daily basis. The advanced student learns 128 movements. Practitioners of the exercises can be seen exercising at dusk, especially in Kuala Lumpur. "Instruction in Chinese medicine is considered a normal part of the training to become a Tai Chi instructor, and many instructors are said to be skilled in bone setting and the treatment of sprains and strains.
One of the most famous Tai Chi instructors in Kuala Lumpur, an elderly man who received his training in China many years ago, is indeed famous locally as a bone-setter. It is clear that it is difficult to draw a line between Tai Chi Chuan and preventive or even curative medicine." (Medicine In Chinese Cultures..., p.310 Bruce Lee, who came from a very wealthy branch of the Li family, was half Chinese and half American by blood. He grew up in Hong Kong, and was taught Chinese martial arts beginning at the age of 14. Bruce Lee came to America, and was very American in his thinking. Due to his American thinking, he thought radically different from the traditional Chinese martial arts mentality, and there is strong evidence to suggest it cost him his life. He not only exposed to the western world secrets of Chinese martial arts, but he mixed various types of moves from the various oriental schools of martial arts. For doing this, he made many of the Zen martial arts masters furious.
When Bruce Lee died at 32 in 1972, his body was like a teenagers and it was in great shape. Bruce Lee had no equal in the martial arts. The Chinese/Hong Kong press felt that he was killed by the Zen martial arts masters of China. In fact, his student Abdul described Bruce Lee as a "renegade Taoist Priest." Whether or not Bruce and his son Brandon were killed by the Triads and/or the Secret Martial Arts Societies of China, doesnt change the fact that Bruce Lee angered them for exposing their martial arts to the western world.
From research in this area, it is clear that there are still secrets kept by Chinese martial arts which only a few carefully chosen members of secret societies know. Bruce Lee did not make it to this inner circle. The inner groups of the secret societies trade favors. This is a standard method of payoff. Well trained martial arts cults that know some of the secrets of cranial manipulation can be asked to assault a human target. What happens if the head injury is not fine-tuned?
Laurence Miller Ph.d. in the article "Unusual Head Injury Syndromes..." (The Journal of Cognitive Rehabilitation 11-12/94, p. 13) states, "Memory disorders are virtually universal in head injury and typically top the list of symptoms reported by patients. The standard pattern of posttraumatic memory disorder - and indeed, for organic memory disorders generally - consists of well-preserved old memories, patchy or impaired memory for events immediately preceding the injury (retrograde amnesia) and following the injury (anterograde amnesia), and subsequent difficulty learning and retaining new information."
This is exactly opposite of what the handlers want. They want the victim to forget the past abuse, but be able to remember a series of new commands for a new operation precisely. This underscores the reason WHY the person doing the assault needs to be skilled. There is no doubt that Chinese martial arts are being used to mug people in order to alter their thinking. The secret potential of Chinese Martial Arts to alter a persons skull bones and thinking has been one secret worth killing to preserve. Miller also points out that frontal lobe injuries can weaken the subjects hold over reality. Although Miller writes about accidental injuries, his article is extremely well researched about the wide variety of mental problems that develop from different injuries. The medical world have named many of these specific problems such as the Ganser Syndrome, the Capgras Syndrome, & Cotards Syndrome. While this kind of research is helpful to establish that different specific injuries to the head can create specific symptoms, the written material is not specific about how to intentionally create a symptom.
The ancient EGYPTIAN CONNECTION
Skull manipulation was used by the ancient Egyptian priesthood, as well as trauma-based mind-control, astral projection, and hypnosis. At least some of these secrets got passed on to later secret societies.
One religious black magic group are the Tibetan monks. Their man-god Dalai Lama, is coveted as a guest of many of the top Illuminati, Mishpucka, and other occult figures around the world. In 1966, the Dalai Lama wrote the book Opening of the Wisdom-Eye, which is typically referred to as the third-eye area which is slated by the NWO to be the initiation site for the mark of the Beast. Many leading European occultists have gone to Tibet to learn from the black magicians of Tibet. Hitler imported hundreds of Tibetan monks for his Third Reich. Nazi expeditions were sent to Tibet; and in 1942, Hitler, because of his occult ideas about Asia & Tibet, was excited to plant a Nazi flag on the highest peak of the Caucasian mountains, Mt. Elbrus, at the specific time of 11 a.m.
For those who didnt realize how dark were the secrets of the Tibetan monks, just a small sampling of books on their black magic secrets include: David-Neels Magic & Mystery in Tibet (1958), Bromages Tibetan Yoga, Beyers The Cult of Tara- -Magic & Ritual in Tibet (1978), the Tibetan Book of the Dead (and commentaries about it), Suzukis The Zen Doctrine of No Mind (1973), and Thomas Out of This World to Forbidden Tibet (1954).
Qigong is the Chinese word for the healing arts taught within the secret schools of Martial Arts. Tibetans go to the S.W. National University in China to learn Qigong. Dapang Qigong is a derivative of Qigong where both martial arts and healing are taught together. One of the secrets of the Tibetan monks, is the physical manipulation of the third eye. T. Lobsang Rampa, a Tibetan from one of the 10 elite families of Tibet, at the age of seven entered the Chakpori Lamasery, the Temple of Tibetan Medicine, where the Tibetan masters taught healing arts including astral projection, clairvoyance and levitation.
Their mystic arts are similar to what the Illuminati believe in and practice. For instance, they learn about the silver cord that connects people. Upper-class boys such as Lobsang received extremely severe treatment from the time they were born to insure that they were tough enough to survive the harsh Tibetan life. Lobsang described the traumas of early boyhood as "brutal", but then adds on page 18 of his book The Third Eye, "Under this system weaklings did not survive, but those who did could survive almost anything." Children were kept awake eighteen hours a day, and worked hard during that time. Even very small babies are kept awake, so that according to Tibetan belief "they shall not become demon invested."
On Lobsangs eighteenth birthday, the Lama of his monastery opened his third eye. Lobsang records the brutal ceremony in his book The Third Eye (Ballantine Books, 1956). Ballantine Books advertises on the cover of this book, "Learn the secrets of the most controversial power of the new age...The Third Eye"." Before this author relates what Lobsang "reveals" about this great secret of new age power, let me interject an informed opinion--this story may be a cover memory to hide what this author has found out is the REAL THIRD EYE manipulation. But first, lets see what Lobsang describes, and then well discuss it.
On the evening of his 18th birthday, Lobsang went to a little room in the monastery. Three lamas of high degrees came and bound his head tightly with an herbal compress to produce some kind of drug effect upon him. They came back and removed the herbal compress, and wiped his forehead clean. Then Lobsang describes, A strong-looking lama sat behind me and took my head between his knees. The second lama opened a box and removed an instrument made of shining steel. It resembled a bradawi except that instead of having a round shaft this one was U-shaped, and in place of a point there were little teeth around the edge of the "U." For some moments the lama looked at the instrument, and then passed it through the flame of the lamp to sterilize it.
The Lama...took my hands and said, This is quite painful, Lobsang, and it can only be done while you are fully conscious. It will not take very long, so try to keep as still as you can." I could see various instruments laid out, and a collection of herbal lotions, and I thought to myself: "Well, Lobsang, my boy, they will finish you one way or the other and there is nothing you can do about it--except keep quiet!" The lama with the instrument looked around to the others, and said, "All ready? Let us start now, the sun has just set."
He pressed the instrument to the centre of my forehead and rotated the handle. For a moment there was a sensation as if someone was pricking me with thorns. To me it seemed that time stood still. There was no particular pain as it penetrated the skin and flesh, but there was a little jolt as the end hit the bone. The pain was not sharp at all, just a pressure and a dull ache. I did not move with the Lama Mingyar Dondup looking on; I would rather have died than make a move or outcry. He had faith in me, as I in him, and I knew that what he did or said was right. He was watching most closely, with a little pucker of muscles in tension at the corners of his mouth. Suddenly there was a little scrunch and the instrument penetrated the bone. Instantly its motion was arrested by the very alert operator. He held the handle of the instrument firmly while the Lama ...passed him a very hard, very clean sliver of wood which had been treated by tire and herbs to make it as hard as steel. This sliver was inserted in the "U of the instrument and slid down so that it just entered the hole in my head. The lama operating moved slightly to one side so that the Lama Mingyar Dondup could also stand in front of me. Then, at a nod from the latter, the operator, with infinite caution, slid the sliver farther and farther. Suddenly I felt a stinging, tickling sensation apparently in the bridge of my nose. It subsided, and I became apparently aware of subtle scents which I could not identify. That, too, passed away and was replaced by a feeling as if I was pushing, or being pushed, against a resilient veil.
Suddenly there was a blinding flash, and at that instant the Lama Mingyar Dondup said "Stop!". For a moment the pain was intense, like a searing white flame. It diminished, died and was replaced by spirals of colour, and globules of incandescent smoke. The metal instrument was carefully removed. The sliver of wood remained, it would stay in place for two or three weeks and until it was removed I would have to stay in this little room almost in darkness. No one would see me except these three lamas, who would continue my instruction day by day. Until the sliver was removed I would have only the barest necessities to eat and drink." As the projecting sliver was being bound in place so that it could not move, the Lama Mingyar Dondup turned to me and said, "You are now one of us, Lobsang. For the rest of your life you will see people as they are and not as they pretend to be."
Bill Schnoebelen, who has publicly been exposing Satanism, writes about his experiences as a vampire and Satanist in several books. In his book, Lucifer Dethroned, he describes a third eye experience that he had during an "astral projection." "It seemed my eyeballs were turning to molten steel. My forehead was about to explode. I felt a claw tear into my brow, right between but slightly above my eyebrows and insert itself into my brain like a white-hot poker. I tried to scream, but could not. My entire body felt like it was going to burst from being filled with roaring, flaming hot light....I felt like a fish on the end of a hook being hauled out of the water by my very brain. I screamed in pain, but it came out: Glory and Love for Lucifer! Hatred! Hatred! Hatred! to God be accursed!...
In order to interpret his third eye experience, it needs to be asked where is Bill Schnoebolen coming from? This authors best evidence to answer that comes from personal testimony. People familiar with this author (Fritz) have contacted Schnoebolen about Fritz for years. Why has Bill Schnoebelen taken a very cold attitude to this chapters author (Fritz) and his work? Why has he opposed and slandered this author, and this authors work like the Vol. 2 book, and other information that this author has been putting out to expose Illuminati mind-control since 1991. One would expect a genuine ex-Satanist to be supportive of someone who risks his life to rescue Satanists from bondage. The reason I introduce personal testimony is that I know what side of things I am on, which is Gods side, and when people like Bill Schnoebolen oppose me from the get-go, without even meeting me, it is solid evidence to me where they are coming from. From what Schnoebolen writes about his third eye experience, and from what this author has learned of third eye cranial manipulation, it appears that Bill is still under some cult deception and is very likely still under the mind-control that placed his cover memory of his third-eye experience into him.
It is very likely that both Lobsang and Bill were in a trance state induced by drugs, hypnosis and dissociation from pain, and that a screen memory was laid in on top of their sensory experience to hide the manipulation of certain midline bones such as the ethmoid, vomer, sphenoid, etc. The sensation produced by the "third eye" cranial manipulation is unforgettable, it feels like something is moving straight into your skull through the frontal bone of the forehead, and then penetrating deeply into the center of the head. In order to preserve their cranial secrets, the occult world has cleverly fabricated these kind of dramatic cover stories. What they are doing is improving the alignment of the ethmoid bone, which makes a person more sensitive to the environment, which will be perceived by some as improving ones psychic abilities.
(As a final note, when this author met with Bill, Bills view towards helping MPD was that it was demons that needed to be delivered. One of his supposed deliverance success stories, an Illuminati victim of mind-control, is still a multiple and still a double agent, and also actively working against this authors work. Bill personally told this author, that while he was a Satanist & vampire he was offered to have a mind-controlled slave, but that he turned the opportunity down. Bill is not the only person publicly exposing the occult/NWO who has over the years tried to prevent this authors information from getting to you.)
The third eye area, called the ethmoid, is physically manipulated by the monks for mind-control purposes. In the occult world, the third eye area actually extends to include the entire midline area, not just the ethmoid, but also the midline bones, and the related brain structures, especially the pineal gland. Midline bones are interesting to occultists, because the main endocrine and neurologic structures in the brain are placed around the central 3rd and 4th ventricular areas. (The first two ventricles, known as the lateral ventricles, repose on either side of the third.) The bones are one way to access these midline structures. The ethmoid is the front-most midline bone (behind the frontal, which is considered to be two bones; since in many people the metopic suture does not close). The ethmoid interfaces with other midline bones.
In the course of this book, the reader is introduced to the concept that the human brain is actually 7 brains. The 4th or mid brain that lies between the upper 3 brains and the lower three and functions as a crossroads, joins with the optic thalamus, which forms the floor of the 3rd ventricle. The ceiling of the 4th brain is the floor of the 3rd ventricle. The 3rd ventricle and the Cave of Brahma make up the 5th brain. The 5th brain is connected to the cerebral hemispheres of the Cerebrum and is critical to creating concepts and storing abstract concepts. It feeds on ideas, and reflects. (Marijuana activates this brain, and it is common knowledge among mind-control handlers that marijuana is forbidden to slaves.)
The roof the 5th brain is formed by the choroid plexus. At the front is the pituitary and at the rear the pineal gland, both exceptionally important to perception. The peptides (called enkephalins) that trigger intuitive awareness of what the 6th brain is perceiving, come from the pituitary into the Cave of Brahma. Can the reader now see why cranial manipulation that influences this area will affect our intuitive awareness?
Cranial Osteopath Ronald R. McCattys book Craniosacral Osteopathy discusses the pineal body and pituitary gland from pp. 78 to 86. A discussion of the techniques to influence these bodies is beyond the scope of this chapter, but there are procedures. McCatty is very skilled, but he still has a ways to go to match the skills of the inner group that does mind-control. His page 25 also discusses a direct adjustment on the Pineal body via arm rotations and breathing. The occult worlds physical manipulation of this third eye area can enhance a persons sensitivity. (It works off of straightforward body/brain mechanics, not the spirit world). It makes the subject feel that he is more telepathic. This is one of their big secrets. This secret was passed on the Gurdjieff, who went to Tibet to learn their secrets. Gurdjieffs communities, which this author has been investigating have a very good appearance to them, but there are lots of dark secrets within these communities, which indicate that drug use and mind-control are going on amongst them.
One of the mind-control techniques used is physical manipulation of the third-eye area of the skull. In fact, a number of cranial osteopaths (such as Cranial Osteopath and Rosicrucian Robert Fulford) have thanked Gurdjieff for enlightening them about how to do cranial manipulation. Some of what the occult says about the third eye is simply cover stories to hide some of the bigger secrets. It is not known to this author if Fulford can do a third eye manipulation. (In this exposure of cranial manipulation, R.C. Fulford is of interest to us due to his impact upon the course Cranial Osteopathy took, rather than his skill. W.G. Sutherland, the leader in Cranial Osteopathy had several Rosicrucians and other occultists as early students. After his death, three of these took Cranial Osteopathy in a more occult direction than Sutherland was going. Anne Wales, as Sutherlands editor & compiler, the person who took over his papers, also reviewed the papers of other cranial doctors, making sure she gave them all as much of a mystical twist as she could add to them. Olive Stretch was the second of the three and she and her husband ran the Cranial Academy from their living room. Upon Olives death, her husband married Fulfords secretary of sixteen years, who in turn continued to run things when he died. Fulford, who is now in his 90s, did occult philosophizing, and some believe programming, but didnt develop the skill needed for entrance into the inner core of high level cranial knowledge.)
Rosicrucian Cranial Osteopath Robert Fulford also met Tibetans to learn what he could from the Tibetans. He became the President of the Osteopathy Cranial Association. He gives interesting talks, and writes about the Odic Force and the Vril (the light that the Nazis believed in), but it is not clear that Fulford, who is retired in Ohio, learned any deep secrets of manipulation.
However, Gurdjieff is not the only one who learned from the Orient. Cranial Osteopath Ronald Kurylowicz, of 754 Washington Blvd, Marina Del Rey, CA who is single and lives with his mother who serves as his secretary, made a special effort to learn what he could from the Chinese over a period of years, with what appears as a clear intent to use it for mind-control and malevolent purposes. The cranial group has long had an international effort to teach and proselytize worldwide. Much of this seems to be a sincere effort to spread the benefits of cranial knowledge allowed to the public. (This knowledge is often released only for substantial fees.)
When the inner core of cranial manipulation has travelled to learn from other cultures, China has been the primary focus. While in China, the inner core of cranial manipulation, who use it for mind-control, have met with their Chinese counterparts to negotiate occult relationships. Top level Theosophists have accompanied the inner core on their trips to China. In 1950, Gurdjieff came out with Beelzebubs Tales to His Grandson Vol. 1-3. IDHHB Inc. published in 1978 some of the secret talks that Gurdjieff had with a special group of disciples. The point is simply that Gurdjieff was willing to go to the occult world of black magicians to get some of his enlightenment, and one of the techniques he learned was the manipulation of the mind via physical manipulation of the "third eye area". One of Gurdjieffs big disciples in New England passed on to the cranial osteopaths manipulation secrets that Gurdjieff learned in Tibet. Gurdjieff is even more mysterious, when one realizes that he an asset of Russian and British intelligence.
This raises the obvious question, what were the Nazis able to learn about skull manipulation from the Tibetans, the Japanese secret societies, and European occultism? It is known that the Nazis carried out experimentation on skull manipulation. (Some of the records pertaining to Nazi human experiments are stored in the U.S. National Archives, incl. National Archives Record Group 238, the Collection of W.W.II War Crimes Records, the OSSs reports in Record Group 226, the Dept. of State records in National Archives Record Group 59, and Group 242. But it must be borne in mind that much of the records of Nazi experiments were confiscated and remained secret so that our government could continue the research. We see only glimpses of this research in such things as the SS skeleton collection, written about in SS letters used as Nuernberg Trial Doc. No.s 87, 88, 91. Prof. Hirt at the Strassburg Anatomical Institute received 150 Jewish skeletons for research according to a secret SS document, marked Exhibit no. 086. One thing is clear, there was no limitation for Nazi researchers as to what they could experiment on with human beings. Could the idea/chance to research in skull manipulation for purposes of mind-control have escaped those Nazi researchers who were steeped in phrenology and horse breeding?)
What did the Nazis learn, and what did their mind-control experts such as Joseph Mengele pass on to American mind-control programmers, or is it possible the subtleties of cranial bone manipulation somehow escaped them? The practice of bone-setting in Germany had been known as Knochenartz, Knocheneinrichter, and Wundart. In recent history, Germany has a large number of cranial osteopaths who purchase lots of American books on the cranial osteopathy. Its this authors opinion, that the total mind-control of NWO slaves being implemented in the Black Forest castles, Strasburg, Frankfurt, Berlin, and hundreds of other German sites includes cranial manipulation. However, in terms of Germany, this remains to be proven. In America, there is no doubt, for we have the victims (and photographic proof) to prove it.
Osteopathy is not "politically correct" within Germanys medical establishment. Most Germans, who purchase cranial books, are occultists (usually variations on Theosophy) and not people with medical or manipulative training. Europeans tend to be much more specialists in their professions than Americans. They dont tend to have as many people/per population practice a particular skill as America, but the ones who do are often very skilled. (This is an observation this author has heard frequently during his world-wide travels, and has also observed for himself.) For instance, in visiting Switzerland, this author learned that if a person wants to build a house he will have no option but to bring in specialists for the different tasks, while in America, its not unusual for people to attempt building their own. This European approach of encouraging only very skilled specialists would also apply to cranial manipulation. We would expect a few very highly technical, skilled skull manipulators, and many curious entry-level folks.
The ninjitsu people (popularly known as "the ninja" in America) were historically black magicians who hired out as assassins, and were feared and hated by all the Japanese people. They are now being held out as role models for our American children. The ninja learned how to dissociate pain. They learned martial arts and the art of stealth. According to the book The Karate Dojo by Peter Urban, "They were the original practitioners of the art of [mind-control] programming. They were taught from the cradle that nothing was impossible. Not knowing that a thing could not be done, they proceeded to do it." It is possible that the Green Dragon Society of Japan passed on some of this mind-control training techniques to the German secret societies that were in cooperation with them prior to and during W.W. II. In other words, Dr. Mengele, the Nazi Angel of Death who carried out mind-control experiments for the Nazis (& the Illuminati) during W.W. II may have attempted to incorporate Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, Ancient Egyptian and Hindu mind-control techniques into their mind-control programming/research.
THE EARLY EUROPEAN OCCULT CONNECTION
Information pertaining to this has been floating around Europe in certain circles for years. We will touch on some of the various times and places that we know parts of cranial manipulation to alter the mind was being done. Over the centuries skilled horsemen learned that they could tell the temperament of a horse from the shape of its head. The best books on horse training would have sections on determining what your horses temperament was based on skull shape.
The Celts were big on bone-setting. Wales has continued to preserve some of this Celtic enthusiasm. A rare book The Art of The Bone-Setter by George Matthews Bennett (London, Tho Murby publ., 1884) gives an excellent history of bone-setters in England, Wales and Scotland. It is likely that some of these men understood some things about how personality could be affected via bone manipulation in the skull.
George Matthews Bennett was a Freemason and a Druid. He was also a leading bone-setter in London, Stratford and other places. He was a descendent of the famous occult Matthews family, which had practiced bone-setting for two hundred years. His son, who also did bone-setting, was the last of that line to practice bone-setting. The skill (professional art) of bone-setting passed down in families for generations was not the equivalent of modern osteopathy.
Osteopathy had many different ideas and approaches, even though the two are similar. One of the early English books on bone-setting was The Compleat Bone-setter by Friar Moulton. In 1665, the book was enlarged by Robert Turner (an occultist/astrologer) and printed in England. In 1871, Dr. Wharton Hood wrote another publication on bone-setting in England entitled A Treatise on Bone Setting. But most of the skill of bone-setting in England was passed down as family secrets within a few bloodlines that practiced it for generations, such as the Thomases, the Taylors of Lancashire, the Maltbys of Nottingham, the Masons of Lincolnshire, the Huttons of Westmorland (& later of London), the Crowthers of Yorkshire, and the Matthews of the Midlands. (This list occurs in the book Medical Fringe & Medical Orthodoxy 1750-1850 edited by Bynum and Porter, pub. London: Croom Helm Ltd., 1987, p. 170, note 10.) Much about bone-setting in Europe, will remain secret, because so much was taught orally and shrouded in mystery. About a dozen British bloodlines passed their trade secrets down, a number of them were Welch. However, there were also many itinerant quacks who travelled around billing themselves as bone-setters.
NINETEENTH CENTURY OCCULT CONNECTION
Bone-setter Richard Hutton gained notoriety in London in the 1800s when he relieved the long-standing suffering of the Hon. Spencer Ponsonby. Hugh Owen Thomas, (1848-?) who was a qualified doctor, used what he knew from coming from a long traditional line of bone-setters to create modern fracture theory. His nephew, Sir Robert Jones (1857-1933) who was his apprentice, was the major ambassador for modern orthopaedic medical practices. In other words, some of the knowledge of the bone-setters contributed to modern established medical knowledge.
Charles Waterton, an English naturalist in old England, wrote in his Wanderings and Essays on Natural History that every nation in Europe had bone-setters, who were independent of the surgeons. Throughout Europe, the men and women who practiced bone-setting learned the skill from others and as a result of experience. The skill was not a text-book-learned skill, but an art that was taught via hands-on training. Many of the bone-setters never formally studied anatomy, pathology, or surgery. (See The Art of the Bone-Setter, p. 96.) Hand-in-hand with bone setting came ideas on the importance of the shape of the skull. In 1695, Balthazar Bekkar of London wrote, "Physiognomy, that is...the Observation of a Mans Shape, must be comprehended under this sort [occult arts], for this Art foretells things by the Looks, the Features and Lineaments of the Face, by which the Genius and Humour of Men are to be discovered." (This comes from book one of a four book series The World Bewitched; An Examination of the Common Opinions Concerning Spirits. London: R. Baldwin, 1695, vol. 1, p.30.)
Throughout the world, people have practiced bone manipulation. The names for folk bone-setting throughout the world of course vary from language to language. In Tahiti it was called "romy" or "rumi". In South America, it was called "abrazo del ranchero". In Bohemia it was called "napravit." In Mexico, its been called "arreglador de huesos", and in France "reboutage." The Amish call it "Brauche", and some of their bone-setters practice folk witchcraft. (This is known from the authors own experience as an Amishman.) Bone-setting has often been associated with folk healing and the occult.
Contrary to what is politically correct today, witchcraft was not a group of poor innocent women chased by a malicious Christian society, but was a well-organized body which was a repository for the occult knowledge of Babylon, Egypt and Rome. Ex-Illuminati members have described (to this author) the ancient manuscripts of knowledge preserved in secrecy by the Illuminati down through the ages. The permission of the Grand Druid Council is needed for some Illuminati books. Illuminati members are only allowed to see certain manuscripts, if they are achieving a mastery in that field of secret knowledge.
In the middle ages, knowledge was dispensed through secret trade guilds, fraternities and bloodlines. The ancient healing/and harming secrets of the human body were secrets of the fraternal secret societies, i.e. what is known today as the Illuminati. Witches could accomplish either a healing or a harmful manipulation of the body without anyone knowing what had happened, because their arts were secret techniques that outsiders couldnt recognize.
Secret medical and psychological knowledge was hidden by lots of cover mystical claptrap, which made the real secrets elusive to outsiders. Witches were accused of witchcraft when the harmful results of what they did were noticed, but the people had little idea of the mechanics of what hit them. Some of the trials of witches during the late middle ages were legitimate grievances, even though the ancient trial records (by todays standards) contain no legitimate evidence of modus operandi. We are not in a position to judge their trials by our standards of evidence.
Throughout most history, the doctor-priest or the medicine man-shaman kept his health secrets to himself as occult/arcane /esoteric knowledge to pass to his chosen successors. Even today, our modern day equivalents for the medicine man & shaman --our doctors & priests are still popular careers for transgenerational pagans. And as this chapter is pointing out, there are still secrets.
The Mystery Religions of Europe studied the human head and body. One of Jacob Boehmes disciples portrayed the Hindu chakra points back in 1736 in his Theosophia Practica. The results of tortures during ancient and medieval times upon the bodies & skulls of people was also known to a few. A relationship appears to exist between bone-setting and witchcraft, in that wherever witchcraft was strongest in England, one also discovers an abundance of bonesetters. An advance knowledge of anatomy was needed to devise the tortures used in Europe by those who were in power. It was not uncommon historically for doctors & bonesetters to provide advice for torture devices. For instance, Dr. Guillotin, a French doctor & Freemason, invented the guillotine.
There are plenty of evidences of occult involvement in the torture of people over the centuries, (even though it is politically correct to blame it on Christians). At this point it is safe to say that there was some overlap between bone-setting, witchcraft, and those who made an occupation as torturers for the state, but the complete details are not available. Some families have traditionally been involved in torture, perhaps at some point those family secrets will surface. Hands of Glory of hanged men were used as health charms. Corpses & moss from skulls, were also thought to have healing powers.
Freemason/Druid/ Bone-setter George Matthews Bennett writes, "In the North of England, the origin of nearly all the men who are fairly good at Bone-setting can be traced to the Whitworth surgery, and while, so far as I know, the Taylors, in their various settlements at Whitworth, Todmorden, Stockwood, and Oldfield-lane, were the only qualified surgeons who practiced Bone-setting; amongst the hills and dales of Lancashire, Yorkshire, and the Lake district, there were many who did so without being qualified." (The Art of the Bone-setter, p. 106) Whether these Taylors were any relation to those Taylors today within the Illuminati, is not known.
Phrenology was very respected during the 19th century. Queen Victoria consulted the top phrenologist. Interest in Phrenology led Europeans to research what the functions of the brain are, & how the brain functions. Phrenologists Johann Gaspar Spurzheim and Scotsman George Combe "realized the potentiality to manipulate and control human behaviour" via their knowledge of the skull and brain. (Cooter, Cultural Meaning of Popular Science, p. 6) The writings of these men resulted in phrenological societies and publications springing up all over the U.S. and Great Britain.
Franz Joseph Gall, was an expert on the anatomy of the brain, having spent his life studying it. Encyclopedia Britannica says F.J. Gall was a "brain anatomist of considerable ability". (Ency. Brit., 15th ed., vol.26, p. 327) In 1800, Franz Joseph Gall, advocated to medical science that the shape of the skull was a guide to an individuals mental faculties and character traits. Based upon this, other researchers such as Pierre Flourens undertook experiments on animals to determine more exactly the functions of the various parts of the brain. Various men contributed ideas.
Leopold Auenbrugger discovered percussion to determine a fluid level. He applied his discovery of tapping his fathers casks to gauge the level of fluid content to the body.
Fire In The Minds of Men, by James H. Billington a leading historian, is an excellent survey of how the French Revolution and subsequent revolutions were created by a small group of leading occultists. Utopian socialists, who embraced the occult ideal of a "revolving back to the Golden Age" helped promote the idea of phrenology at the important Paris Athenee, where debates were organized concerning the psychology of personality, physiognomy, and phrenology. (For those readers who havent kept up with other written works of this author, the Illuminati when America was discovered believed that they historically had came from Atlantis, and that a new Atlantis could be constructed in the new world. The revolution of the United States was the first war in history called a "revolution", and it was called a revolution because it and subsequent revolutions were to revolve us back to the Golden Age of Atlantis. They named the ocean to reach their new Atlantis, the Atlantic Ocean.)
Charleston, S.C. was a major hub for the Scottish Rite and for Reformed Judaism, both which were interlocked and used the Cabala. The main goal of the Cabala is to create a mind-controlled slave called a golem. The main principle behind Freemasonry according to Albert Pike, who was the Supreme Commander of Freemasonry in Charleston, S.C. has been the cabala. This makes it easier to understand why Freemasonry has been involved in the creation of mind-controlled slaves.
It also makes it more understandable why hypnotism (called mesmerism) along with phrenology was introduced into Charleston, SC about 1830. After the occult world introduced phrenology coupled with hypnotism to Charleston, it was also introduced by the Frenchman Charles Poyen to Rhode Is. Brown University. The entire faculty was so astonished at the power of hypnotism, that they concluded that mesmerism was a more important science than phrenology.
Initially, the elite in Charleston were interested in hypnotism (called mesmerism) combined with phrenology. The craze spread to the common people, and hypnotism was the subject of a famous intellectual debate in Charleston in 1843. Phrenology, which was a science tied to Rosicrucianism, lost favor in the south, due to the large participation of phrenologists (Rosicrucians) in the abolition movement. The Abolitionist movement was created in the U.S. by the Illuminati via the Rosicrucian groups, as well as Unitarians and Socialists who were also tied to them. For instance, Rosicrucian/ Phrenologist William Lloyd Garrison started the Anti-slavery Society in 1832. Three other notable Rosicrucian abolitionists are John Brown, George Lippard, and Abraham Lincoln. John Brown, besides being a Rosicrucian, revolutionist and abolitionist, was a practicing phrenologist. He had been trained by Fowler and Wells, who promoted the Vegetarian City that A. Still visited.
Many of the Illuminati and leading European occultists, incl. men such as Charles Taze Russell (founder of the WT Society) and Joseph Smith, Jr. (founder of the LDS Mormon church) were students of phrenology. Interestingly, Joseph Smith, Jr. on Jan. 5, 1841 had a revelation that phrenology was an occult science from "the Devil". (Smiths words are recorded in The Words of Joseph Smith: The Contemporary Accounts of the Nauvoo discourses of the Prophet Joseph. Provo, UT: Brigham Young Univ. Religious Studies Center, 1980, p. 61.) And yet he continued studying phrenology, and endorsing phrenology to the "Latter-day Saints" (Mormons).
Quite a number of the Mormon prophets (the top leader) such as Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff, and George A. Smith got phrenological readings done of their skulls. The Mormon church sold phrenology books and even printed a phrenology magazine in Salt Lake City for a while, which was entitled The Character Builder from the 1870s until into the 1940s. George Reynolds, First Presidency secretary and later President of the LDS Seventies (a group of men like the catholic cardinals) considered phrenological readings as valid as the patriarchal blessings that the LDS church gives to its members.
Since the Mormon church is one of the Illuminati fronts carrying out mind-control, it should come as no surprise that attempts to control the human mind by manipulation of the shape of the skull have been attempted. Interestingly, official church interest in phrenology by the Mormon hierarchy died out during the time period (1940s) that mind-control began to be scientifically carried out by the Illuminati in cooperation with different government front. Could it be that there was a grain of powerful truth in phrenology that these people wanted quietly buried?
Swendenborg, the founder of a mystical Masonic Rite, spent a great deal of time and some of his writing discussing the skull bones. This author has encountered victims of trauma-based total mind-control within the modern Swendenborg Church of New Jerusalem. Occult students of Swendenborg, including some of the Illuminati, such as some in the DuPont family, studied his ideas with fervour. (The DuPonts appear to be connected to at least one cranial osteopath.) (Because the Church of New Jerusalem does not tell the public nor its members about Swedenborg being a Freemason, etc. it would be advantageous to briefly identify to the reader who he was. Swedenborg wrote, "I live, besides, on terms of familiarity and friendship with all the bishops of my country, who are ten in number; as also with the sixteen senators, and the rest of nobility. The king and queen also, and the three princes, their sons, show me much favor." Swedenborg, born to a well-connected elite Swedish family, was a genius who wrote an incredible amount of spiritual writings that he believed came from alien encounters. His "alien" material in his Earths in the Universe is blatantly baloney, but at that time, people had no concept of what theyd find in outer space. The "aliens" even gave him the wrong number of planets in our solar system, 9. Swedenborg wrote that Saturn is "the farthest [planet] from the sun". He was certain of this and other ideas because of what the aliens had told him.
He also communicated with spirits. Masonic encyclopedias state that many of his ideas were Masonic. In Masonry Defined (publ. by National Masonic Press, a book based on 33º Freemason / Masonic historian Mackeys notes), their article on Emanuel Swedenborg states, "enlightened Masons will find many Masonic ideas in Swedenborgs writings." In the Be Wise As Serpents book, this author documents the interlocking directorates that control the top level secret societies. The Masonic Rite of Swedenborg with its 8 degrees and two "temples"-which means "sub-rites"- has had some of the worst Satanists as its leadership.)
In spite of the ridicule of the various ideas about determining personality from the shape of the body and head, Ency. Brit. 15th ed. Vol. 25, p. 497 admits, "Nevertheless, structural differences in the body do seem to have some significance in pointing to such aspects of personality as intelligence and emotion." The 18th and 19th century researchers were onto something, they didnt manage to finish the job. The Nazi government, and other governments have secretly tried to finish that job. Unfortunately, it may be a long time before we learn exactly how they finished this line of research. So far, the only recipients of the 20th century research findings have been a few select people within the occult world.
An interesting story involving personality change due to changes in the skull and brain was the landmark patient Phineas Gage, who died in 1861, after an accident caused him to damage the brains ability to make rational decisions and to process emotions. Recently, new research was performed on Phineas Gages skull to understand better how his brain had been affected by an accident. (See Science, May 20, 1994, p. 1102)
Another example of how the shape of the skull and the movement of skull bones determines how the brain functions are the craniectomies that are now being carried out to relieve infants from mental imbecility due to premature skull sutural closure and microcephalus. (See The Journal of the American Medical Association JAMA, Jan. 8, 1992, p. 226.) Further, researchers into how the brain creates thoughts, who desire to remain confidential, have come to believe that the ionic crystalline structure within the craniums 5 cranial bone plates: the occipital bone, the two Parietal bones and the two frontal skull bones which connect at fontanellas (fissures) called sutures play an important role in the creation of thoughts. They believe that the ionic crystalline structures of the skull bones interact with incoming theta waves from the brain, and a resonance is created that causes electrons to be generated, which are then translated via a Fourier-type translation into a thought.
You are probably aware that it is the grey matter that lies next to the skull that carries out the higher level thinking that distinguishes humans from animals. These researchers have stated that they believe that the fontanellas (connections between the skull plates) allow subtle lateral motions and non-linear complex vibrations to occur. These vibrations are part of the higher thinking process. If this is true, it could have far ranging ramifications.
These researchers believe the natural resonant vibrational frequency of the skull bones (the cranium) ranges from 840 to 890 MHz in non-herzian waves. This range was reserved for VHF television, but has now been reserved for the national cellular telephone network. When the 840 to 890 range was used for television, various neurologists noted that certain signals related to particular pitches and sounds would trigger reactions in people. For instance, the NY Times 7/11/91 reported that according to a neurologist an epileptic seizure was triggered via certain television signals. Cellular phones are now being used to transmit faxes, computer information such as modems transmit, and other signals. Illuminati connected companies of IBM, Motorola, and GE are some of the companies working with cellular phone technology. The creation of vibrations via cellular phone signals in the 840 to 890 MHz non-herzian wave range could conceivably implant thoughts into a victim near the cellular phone. This raises two questions. First, IS the establishments big push to popularize cellular phone use, even to the point of giving out free cellular phones, part of Big Brothers mind-control? Second, since it appears the brains ability to creatively think is related to the vibrations that are subtly made in the skull, the question naturally poses itself--can cranial osteopathy disrupt or alter the natural abilities of the craniums plates to vibrate?
THE MODERN AMERICAN OCCULT CONNECTION
In the United States, as in England, there were certain families who passed their bone-setting skills down as family trade secrets. The most famous bone-setting families were the Reece family (in west. Penn., and east. Ohio), the Sweet family (in Rhode Is., Mass., Conn., & NY), and the Tieszen and Orton families in South Dakota. The Sweets became orthopedists, the Tieszen and Orton families went into Chiropractic. The Irish Quain family were famous anatomists, surgeons, and physicians.
Osteopathy and chiropractic stemmed from the same occult philosophical roots, but went in different directions. Both shared the idea that the body has the ability to maintain good health if allowed to do so, and both emphasized the manipulation of bones and joints. Both were started about the same time period in America in about the same geographic area, by men who had Scottish ancestry.
A.T. Still (the founder of osteopathy) and D.D. Palmer both studied magic and metaphysics. Both attended many of the same spiritist meetings, for instance both attended the spiritualist meetings at Clinton, Iowa on a number of occasions. (Gibbons, 1980, p. 13)
The osteopaths goal was to move bones to improve circulation. The chiropractors primary goal was to move bones to reduce pressure or the irritation of nerves, with the further goal of positively helping organs and tissue. A.T. Still & other osteopaths claimed Daniel D. Palmer visited Still at his house, but Palmers descendants say its not true.
Early on Stills two best assistants were two doctors from Scotland, William Smith & James Littlejohn. Daniel David Palmer (1845-1913), founder of chiropractic, was a Freemason & an occultist. His original practice was to heal people with what he called "magnetic healing" which was a combination of laying on of hands, hypnotism and white magic. Of course it was not called white magic, it was called "magnetic healing" by Palmer.
Part of the magnetism was his own magnetic (hypnotic) personality. Palmer also knew phrenology and had a keen sense of touch concerning a persons head. D.D. Palmer taught phrenology. D.D. Palmer was a mixture of good and bad traits. He was an excellent scholar and had good organizational skills for what he learned. One of his difficult traits was his megalomania. In 1905, at a coroners inquiry, Palmer refused to take an oath to swear the truth "so help me God", because he said that "I dont want any help from God." It must have been hard on his pride, when his own son B.J. Palmer, who had been cruelly raised by cruel step-mothers, turned Judas and stole from his father both the honor & money that was due his father.
His son Bartlett Joshua Palmer (1882-1961) worked in a circus as an assistant to professional circus hypnotists known as Professor Hunt, and later Professor Herbert L. Flint. Later, with mysterious connections to the right people, B.J. Palmer, got the money and the political clout to get started in building a school for chiropractic. His powerful Davenport radio station, WOC, said to be the second largest in the U.S., had Ronald Reagan (our future president) as one of its sports announcers.
B.J. Palmer was connected to the occult world. He liked to encourage the idea that he was a Christ figure. New Ager Napoleon Hill, author of Think and Grow Rich (1937) considered Palmer his mentor. B.J. had prominent Masons and other elite as his personal guests. Elbert Hubbard, a friend of B.J.s, was the person who persuaded John D. Rockefellers personal physician, to get Rockefeller to use chiropractic care. Later in 1963, Nelson Rockefeller would be the important person to get chiropractic accepted as legal in NY, and then appointed chiropractor Albert Cera to his Medical Advisory Committee.
Illuminati kingpin California Gov. Edmund Brown appointed 12 chiropractors to regional committees associated with the California Board of Medical Assurance. Hollywood got into the promotion of chiropractic, with the 1990 film Jacobs Ladder which was a film exposing the U.S. militarys use of BZ (a derivative of LSD) in Vietnam to experimentally try to create aggression via drugs in American soldiers.
It appears that chiropractic occult ties have been beneficial in its fight for acceptance. The occult world has worked hard to keep chiropractic within its domain. This is why you will find Christians exposing the occult connections to chiropractic such as T.M. Clements book A Warning to Christians About the Origins of Chiropractic. (Moses Lake: WA, date of printing not known).
As the reader will discover other sciences involving the relationship of the mind, brain, the body and personality have also been kept in the domain of the secret societies. Like Palmer, Dr. Andrew Taylor Still, who founded osteopathy, was interested in phrenology, hypnotism, spiritism, magic. The reference book 10,000 Famous Freemasons (Vol. 4) outlines his Masonic career in Freemasonry. His writings include such Masonic phrases as "Great architect of the Universe." His grandfather had been Scotch-Irish. His father was a Methodist Episcopal minister, who was an abolitionist who fought with John Brown and the free-state forces in Kansas.
Andrew Taylor Still ran for the legislature of Kansas Territory as a free-state candidate and won in the Oct. 1857 elections. Later, he married Mary Elvira Turner, who was from the "burned-over" district in New York. She had been exposed to abolitionist ideas, phrenology, and hypnotism (called mesmerism) which were all popular in the area she grew. Her area of NY was where Spiritism began in 1848. Horace Greeley of the NY Tribune then made these séances with spirits famous. In 1867, after his children died, Andrew Taylor Still embraced spiritistism. Stills beliefs in spiritism included ideas from Freemason Swendenborgs writings. (For details of Andrew Taylor Stills life refer to the book Trowbridge, Carol. Andrew Taylor Still. Kirksville, MO: The Thomas Jefferson Press, 1990.)
A.T. Still built osteopathy on the foundation of teachings of men such as phrenologist/hypnotists such as Joseph Rodes Buchanan. Buchanan used hypnosis and manipulation of the head to radiate the cerebral fluid from the brain to the body, which was coming close to the basics of cranial osteopathy. How did A.T. Still come up with these new ideas? A.T. Still was able to study and conduct experiments on bodies by raiding Indian graves for bodies, which he says in his "Circumstances and Personal Experiences" he did thousands of experiments on.
Certainly, he was unusual in having had a boyhood interest in digging up skeletons. He also read every book on anatomy he could find. In spite of his preoccupation with digging up skulls of people, Still seems to have been a decent person. Today, the occult world dislikes him. Why? In view of the historical facts, and the historical occult campaign to denigrate who Still was, it appears Still revealed secrets. Still was interested in scientific investigation. He proved things as he went along. He was a true researcher, and contrary to many researchers he was willing to openly share his knowledge with mankind.
Andrews two brothers, Ed and James, were M.D.s. They may well have been loyal to the occult world, and it is speculated that this may account for part of their attempts to destroy the work of Andrew Still. It appears that in spite of Andrews own occult connections, Andrew Still wanted to give the world cranial osteopathic knowledge that the occult world deemed to be secrets.
Andrew Still joined Freemasonry in Baldwin, KSs Palmyra Lodge No. 23. (10,000 Famous Freemasons, Vol. 4, p. 194). He came from a transgeneration occult background. He did speak and write with the type of terminology that the occult world uses, although today some of his "occult" writings only appear so because they are taken out of context. Recently, the Internet has a website with the "Sage Sayings of Still" with excerpts from a "spiritual diary" he kept. On the other side of the coin, the supposed sage occult sayings of Still were renounced by Still himself after he wrote them. He not only exposed occult secrets that the bonesetters had kept in the occult families for centuries, he made a point of tossing occultists out of his school.
I believe Andrew Still was one of those people that the generational occultists could say, "He grew up and dwellt among us, but he wasnt one of us." No wonder the occult world has had a campaign against him after he died. After Andrew died, his son Charles an excellent compassionate skillful doctor was to have taken over A.T. Stills Kirksville Osteopathic College. Instead, a rich financial backer, Warren Hamilton, who owned pivotal shares of stock placed James Stills grandson into the Osteopathic Colleges presidents chair. The knowledge that Still tried to get to the world was now stifled. As an example of where things have progressed the Cranial Academy (the American Academy of Osteopathy) is now situated in three buildings in Indianapolis that are identical copies of the Great Pyramid, & use pyramids for their logo. (By the way one of Dr. A.T. Stills great-grandnephews is William Still who wrote the book New World Order. William Still is descended from the doctors brother Thomas, who was an M.D. Williams father was a U.S. general who was part of World Order, and although Williams book was great, when one considers how the NWO order creates their own opposition and how double-agents are created, this author has some personal reservations on what is happening with William. For those who havent obtained a copy of the book, this author recommends it.)
Back to discussing Stills ideas. Eventually, A.T. Still developed his own ideas for healing the body without using drugs, or the dangerous medical practices of his day. In 1874, Dr. Andrew Taylor Still, devised osteopathy, a medical practice that seeks to help the body via manipulated of the bones. 16 Osteopathic Schools have successfully sprung up in the U.S. over the years to serve the need for osteopath doctors. A few others failed. A small specialty within the Osteopathic medicine is Cranial Osteopathy which has the Cranial Academy (formed in 1946), which is a component of the American Academy of Osteopathy. The Cranial Academy is headquartered at 1020 Market Tower, Ten West Market St., Indianapolis, IN 46204 in a building that looks like 3 Egyptian pyramids.
Osteopathic students who have taken a Basic Cranial Course approved by the Academy are eligible to apply to the Cranial Academy to learn about osteopathy as it applies to the skull. Just recently, in June 20-23, 1996, they had their annual conference at Walt Disney World Village, Lake Buena Vista, FL. Walt Disney World happens to be a major mind-control programming center and the significance of this was brought out in Chapter 5.
The Cranial Academy, founded by occultist Sutherland in 1946, is affiliated with the Applied Academy of Osteopathy (this AAO is a group that is concerned with manipulative work, & also based in IN). WG Sutherland developed Cranial Osteopathic concepts. It appears that the occult world were upset enough with Andrew Stills revelations, that they planted WG Sutherland into the new science to bring the science back into the realm of the occult world. Sutherland (and those that followed him) was not above spewing out disinformation. Another leader following Sutherland in the field was another occultist Fulford, who helped insure that the Theosophists and Rosicrucians took over the science that A.T. Still had tried to give the world in a scientific form. Fulford, almost a god to some of the doctors interested in cranial osteopathy, functions as a bulwark to prevent most doctors from learning the deeper arts of manipulation.
Only a small inner group are taught the most advanced manipulative methods and anatomical details. The crucial cranial research work is being done privately by doctors affiliated with the Rosicrucians and this research is reported only in their literature for Rosicrucians only. The American Osteopathy Association helps to keep things low key by making no reference to the Cranial Academy in their materials, and only referring to the AAO once.
In 1953, one of the leading Cranial Osteopaths, William G. Sutherland, an American of Scottish descent, formed a foundation called the Sutherland Cranial Teaching Foundation in Denver, CO to promote the teaching of Cranial (head or skull) Osteopathy as developed by Sutherland. The cranial osteopathic work is taught by the Cranial Academy, but the inner knowledge, the inner secrets that are needed to successfully use cranial manipulation for mind-control are not taught by the Cranial Academy. This is taught privately by doctors who keep their relationships to each other secret. The inner core leaders (the top 3) of this small highly proficient group were all based in the south, and have all died since 1990. They have been replaced by carefully recruited handpicked successors.
There are occasion groups in other places that do cranial work. Some research on bioenergy and bone motion was done at the Univ. of Michigan School of Osteopathy and the Upledger Institute based in Florida has taught a very mechanical and rudimentary version of cranial work. These are just side activities. The U.S. Air Force and Navy provide scholarships which cover full tuition, books and living expenses for certain applicants to go to osteopathic college for four years. This has been carried out via the Director, Washington Office, American Osteopathic Association, Cafritz Building Suite 1009, 1625 Eye Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20006.
One of the military Cranial Osteopaths is a Maj. Beverly I. Maliner, and another is David R. Lemme at the Naples, It. Naval Hospital. There are reports that this hospital along with other American military sites in Europe are being used for mind-control. However, that does not necessarily connect Lemme or Maj. Maliner with government mind-control. This author knows of no evidence that would connect them. The military has used civilians to carry out some of the mind-control on their bases for decades, so they wouldnt have to use their own people if they didnt want to. The military has conducted secret research into the effects of skull bone movement, and traumatic skull injuries which are still classified.
One example of many of the type of modern research done is Susan Ann Bloomfields Ph.d. dissertation "Site-specific changes in bone mass and Alterations in Calciotrophic Hormones with Electrical Stimulation Exercise in Individuals with Chronic Spinal Cord Injury." Her research showed that electrical stimulation of the muscles around spinal injuries helped the bones grow.
The casual researcher will soon find out that Cranial Osteopathy is a hidden subject. One of the better books discussing the potential of Cranial Osteopathy and how it works is a hard-to-get out-of-print book Craniosacral Osteopathy by Ronald R. McCatty. As this subject is so important to mind-control, this author availed himself to find a copy of the book and to study it. Some of the techniques described in the book will be hard for regular doctors to verify. If the curious were to use standard medical tests such as X-rays or MRI (which are too big), they will not get anywhere in discovering the details of how to manipulate the skull. The science is much more minute than these tests. An M.D. who asked the Cranial Academy about cranial literature was told that their literature is copyrighted to the writers and not available to other professions. This is an example of how protective the Cranial Academy is of their knowledge and they arent even teaching the hard core inner secrets!
The secret cults continue their iron grip over the deep secrets of cranial manipulation. They continue their monopoly over who gets benefited by cranial work, as well as who is destroyed by cranial work.
In review, a number of sincere men have tried to develop Cranial Osteopathy including Dr. Andrew Still in 1874. Interestingly, as soon as each one of these men began discovering new techniques informed members of the occult world would take over their work, and insure that the work was kept within the confines of the occult world. For instance, Dr. Sutherlands experiments revealed to him that Cranial Osteopathy could influence the way a person thought and their personality. In the book, With Thinking Fingers The Story of William Gamer Sutherland by his wife Adah Strand Sutherland, she writes, "It was Dr. Sutherlands cherished dream that a day would come when the benefits to the mentally ill through the cranial component in osteopathy would be investigated to the satisfaction of scientific insistence; that it would be approved and made available institutionally, in the curriculum's of osteopathic colleges as well as in the majority of private practices." (Sutherland, Adah S. With Thinking Fingers. The Cranial Academy: Indianapolis, IN., p. 62).
However, clever people in the occult world saw that Cranial Osteopathy could not only be used to help the mentally ill, but to control the minds of people. They realized that this valuable information could not be shared with the world but should confined to the occult world where its full evil potential could be exploited.
Part of why it was so easy to hi-jack Sutherlands research is that he wrote very little. He wrote only two short articles. He didnt like to write, he liked to do research and work with people. Strangely, his wife divorced him, and a Rosicrucian lady married him. The details of it all have the feel of the occult world moving in and micromanaging Sutherlands life in order to control his research. Two years after Sutherland died in 54, his Osteopathy Cranial Association was already starting to praise a new age type of "Christ" in its literature. Anne L. Wales, a Rosicrucian, archived his work, and it is through her that we have received some of his work. She makes sure that when Sutherlands ideas see the light of day, they are steeped in occult Rosicrucian ideas. This helps insure that sincere non-occult scientists disregard what appears to be Rosicrucianism, rather than the research of a doctor.
Anne L. Wales has been more than a Rosicrucian. She was a member of the Church of Scientology, which is practicing trauma-based mind-control and which is a recruiting organization for the OTO and the Process Church which are also both practicing total mind-control in coordination with the Illuminati. This author is aware of two separate victims of trauma-based total mind-control who came out of different Rosicrucian groups. As their are several groups claiming Rosicrucian philosophy, this author hasnt sorted out if there are any Rosicrucian groups which ARENT being used as repositories for mind-controlled slaves. In other words, it appears that all Rosicrucian groups contain mind-controlled slaves.
Rosicrucianism (its various forms) has long attracted membership from the medical community, and there is evidence that it even recruits in the medical, chiropractic and osteopathic schools. The Rosicrucians, who like to track their history back to the alchemists, brag about their large numbers of medical members. AMORC indicates that at least 11% of its members are doctors. The Rosicrucians also hint about their secret medical experiments and secret medical knowledge. One Rosicrucian claim to fame is their mystical theories about the connections between the mind and the body (particularly the skull & nervous system).
The luxurious Clymer Health Clinic near Philadelphia offers cranial treatments at very modest prices by their staff of Rosicrucian chiropractors. Rosicrucian (& high ranking Mason) Swinbourne Clymer, MD, donated the land and funds for that clinic early this century. Clymer was a millionaire with eccentric health ideas. He financed the entire Rosicrucian Philadelphia-based group, too. His writings have tidbits that show he was an insider. Their headquarters has pyramids with capstones. Their books mention the Illuminati with great frequency. It is beyond the scope of this chapter, but there are connections between theosophy and Rosicrucianism and the Illuminati.
Theosophical groups tie in to the Nazis religious beliefs, and today theosophical-minded young people are showing an interest in cranial manipulation. In other words, the interconnections between the occult world begin popping up when one investigates cranial work. One outspoken Doctor of Cranial Osteopathy (DO) Donald E. Woods, recently spoke out in the journal of Cranial Osteopathy entitled The Cranial Letter against the occultism that clearly controlled his specialty. He wrote in protest, "Yet, in the past we [cranial osteopaths] have bordered both on being a cult and on being occult. We must be neither to be effectively acceptable in health care, and it can be done since osteopathy, including Cranial Osteopathy, is based on valid human physiological and anatomical truths. Where do cult and occult fit in?"....Occultism says you do not have to pay attention to any of the old rules. Everything goes. Kick the walls out. Be tolerant of everyones behaviour....Both the cult and the occult have the tendency to think that things outside their sphere of influence are unreasonable. They might say, "It is necessary that you belong to our group." (The Cranial Letter, Aug., 94, Vol. 47, No. 3, p.9)
While this letter printed in The Cranial Letter helps establish to the reader the occult worlds influence in cranial osteopathy, the Cranial Academy may have printed this because the doctor in question is a multiple and they are possibly helping him separate himself publicly from the occult. And while the secrecy of cranial manipulation has been well kept, the Cranial Academy is considering disbanding itself, and letting the 16 osteopathic schools teach a more basic form or cranial work, which would further isolate the secrets for occults elect.
Osteopathy itself has been accepted into mainstream medicine and one medical reference book states, "It is important to note that the osteopathic system of diagnosis and therapy is used in conjunction with the standard medical procedures of drug and surgical therapy." The curriculum at an osteopathic college or school is almost identical with that offered at the standard schools. The most popular school is the Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine. There are approx. 150 osteopathic hospitals in the U.S. Most osteopaths are general practitioners and only 20% of the osteopaths specialize. Of these only a tiny percentage do Cranial Osteopathy full time. Of the small clique of DOs (Dr.s of Osteopathy) who do Cranial Osteopathy full time (Note: there are about 150 DOs nationwide that spend approx. 100% of their time doing Cranial Osteopathy--which no. was determined by this author using info provided in the Member Information Directory of the Cranial Academy.), and then based upon observations at programming sites and other criteria there is an inner circle of about 9 doctors who understand Cranial Osteopathy well enough to use their skills for the Illuminati in mind control.
Recently, there have been a number of magazine articles, for instance, American Medical News, June 26, 1995, p. 3 which discusses how osteopathic medical techniques of manipulation are becoming more acceptable to mainstream physicians and to the public. The article mentions that the American Osteopathic Assn. is getting $6 million for research. Obviously, the American Osteopathic Assn. is politically correct and moving with the stream of todays general trend toward new age ideas, and a global government.
Many osteopath doctors specialize. A Canadian government survey of chiropractors, osteopaths, and naturopaths in Canada revealed that 66% of the Canadian osteopaths specialized (See Royal Commission on Health Services Study of Chiropractors, Osteopaths and Naturopaths in Canada. Ottawa, Can: The Queens Printer, 1966, p. 166), a figure much higher than revealed in a study of American Osteopaths in A Statistical Study of the Osteopathic Profession, Dec. 31, 1960, Dept. of Information and Statistics, American Osteopathic Association, May 1961, p. 2 Table 7.
In the Canadian study, osteopaths reported specializing in headaches, neurology, cranial work and cranial osteopathy. Their naturopaths reported specializing in fields including psycho-therapy, radio wave, electrotherapy, and cranial correction in mongoloids, spastics and body reconstruction. In exploring mind-control, it must be born in mind, that the American CIA was quick to recruit Canadians to help. Some of the cranial osteopaths themselves appear to be in controlled trance states, so they may well be under total mind-control themselves. These people are obviously of Celtic (probably Illuminati) bloodlines.
Bones are alive and changing. It might be helpful to review what bones are made of, and how they change and grow, just in case the reader had some misconceptions such as that bones are fixed solids that dont change. Bones within the human body, esp. the skull give support and protection. Bone is comprised of "an organic matrix synthesized and deposited by osteoblastic activity, calcium-phosphate precipitates, and a mineralized phase of hydroxyapatite, which is primarily composed of calcium and inorganic phosphate (Robey, 1989). The primary ingredient of the organic matrix is a collagen in the form of fibers that are extensively cross-linked. applies to 90% of the matrix. There several types of collagen, Type 1 predominant. This are is Numerous noncollagenous proteins have also been discovered in bone, including some which have been identified as growth factors. Bone development and turnover is regulated by various bone cells (see Teltelbaum, 1990)
The exact method the body uses to recreate new bone is too complex to describe here, but let it suffice that researchers are studying all the minute complexities of the abilities of the body to produce bone. Old bone is constantly being absorbed and reproduced new. BMUs are important to development of new bone. (see studies like Frost, 1965, & Parfit, 1987). According to the Wall Street Journal, Feb. 23, 1996, p. Al (in both Eastern & Western editions) some physicians are remolding lopsided skulls of infants with unnecessary surgery when the only problem is the childs sleep position, and the lopsided skull can be corrected with a head band rather than surgery.
In terms of head shapes, which can be created by skilled manipulation of the skull bones, a Vertical Strain Superior is associated with passiveness and dissociation. This is why some of the cults are either manipulating peoples heads or recruiting people that have long faces in their cults. The vertical Strain Inferior is said to be connected to criminals. The programmers for the NWO have been intentionally manipulating peoples skull to get passiveness and dissociativeness.
Daniel Whiteside and John Wesley Grossman did extremely valuable work in statistically validating the clear connections between 60 behavior traits and physical structures. The physical shape of the brain is related to how the brains cells are proportioned. This science is called Structure/ Function.
Daniels father Robert L. Whiteside was one of the founders of 3-In-One. Robert wrote an amazing book Face Language. The Air Force academy used it in three of their courses. Prior to encountering Roberts book, this author has noticed that the Japanese and Chinese have done a great deal of research and writing in this area. Our own language has come to reflect some of our intuitive ideas about Structure/ Function such as: "He is level-headed." "She is nosey." "Hes a real high-brow." and "He leads with his chin." (cf. Face Language, p. xi-xii)
Whiteside takes 40 pages to identify traits that are shown by the eyes. Then he explains traits that are shown by the mouth area. Then he deals with overall facial traits and finally profile traits. For instance, a large difference between one side of the face and the other indicates how much the individual changes with their mood change. If the head steadily gets wider as it runs from the mouth to the ears, then the person has the trait of acquisitiveness. A person who loves to be precise with words will develop little lines that fan out from the inner corner of the eye toward the cheekbone. The 3-In-1 college doesnt teach that the face reveals all behavior, but they teach their students what to expect from people, so that they can communicate better.
Another 3-In-1 publication Advanced ONE BRAIN by Gordon Stokes and Daniel Whiteside reveals eye modes. NLP has also been teaching some of these eye modes to detect what a person is thinking. Another publication provides charts (designed by William Mariboe) which explain different traits and how they exhibit themselves physically. For instance if the eyes are extremely wide apart, the person will either see an open viewpoint as valuable or feel inadequate. The chart then charts out how the trait (of emotional tolerance) will exhibit itself under different circumstances. For instance, in doing a job they tend to loose track of time. Perhaps the value of all this in not clear in the readers mind. In terms of mind-control, if you know what physical structures will give you a particular trait, you can enhance what you want by skilful manipulation of the skull bones.
The key to manipulating the skull lies in the fact that the skull bones actually float on the Cerebrospinal fluid, while the brain floats in the fluid. In the booklet The Cranial Bowl by William G. Sutherland (1984), he writes about what he calls "the moulding technic". The moulding technic is the reshaping of the skull. He writes on page 28, "The moulding technic is especially adaptable to children, and even to the adult well along in the later period of life." In the booklet, he goes into details about the cerebrospinal fluid.
The Cerebrum (brain) and the spine float in a fluid that surrounds them. This fluid is called cerebrospinal fluid and is referred to on page 1050 of the massive anatomical reference book Grays Anatomy 36th Brit. ed. (edited by Williams & Warwick, printed by W.B. Saunder Co., for Churchill Livingstone). In 1920 and 1938, Weed published research on the circulation of the cerebrospinal fluid. As just one example of many of the roles that the CS Fluid plays within the brain, that has been discovered is that the carotid artery has a branch that passes upward through a water bed of cerebro-spinal fluid. The CS Fluid follows that internal carotid artery to the choroid plexus, so that it can perform the function of interchange with the arterial blood. The CS Fluid is "in command" of this exchange. (I mention this because see how this ties in with the 5th brain?)
In fact, a Fourth Ventricle Compression is the most valuable and powerful CSF technique for helping people. (It is mentioned simply to show people the effect that CSF has on some very important brain areas.) Because the brain and spinal cord float in a fluid, a brain weighing 1,500 grams in the air, only weighs 50 gr. in cerebrospinal fluid which distributes the brain weight more evenly. The fluid itself is clear, slightly alkaline with a specific gravity of 1007. About l00 mls of CS Fluid will exist to float the brain and spinal cord. The spine rests in this cerebrospinal fluid, which has waves that approximate the breathing rhythm of the body. 50% of the cerebrospinal fluid is manufactured in one part of the head (choroid plexuses), and spends its time fluxuating. It is absorbed and replenished, as other body elements are. The plexuses which are located in the lateral recesses of the fourth ventricle also put cerebrospinal fluid into the subarachnoid space, and this supplies the cerebello-medullary cistern and the pontine cistern with fluid. The cerebrospinal fluid makes up a single fluxuating system of fluid within which the central nervous system/brain operate. As the brain coils and uncoils, waves of motion (energy) fluctuate in a spiral pattern through the cerebrospinal fluid in the skull, down the spinal column and up again, so that there is motion from front to back in the head and also laterally.
As the human brain develops the CSF seems to appear at the earliest stages. The brain goes through stages of development as the brain-spinal cord divide. The forebrain develops into several items, the midbrain into two parts, and the hindbrain into the first three brains. The cerebrospinal fluid is manufactured by the body, fluctuates in a single Head-spinal cord system and then is absorbed and replenished by the body. The fluid does not circulate like blood. The fluid and the skull bones continue to fluctuate even if a person holds his breath. As long as the CSF oscillates like it should, things are fine, but if something occurs to pervert the rhythms, the health of the person goes down. Loss of sleep can influence the rhythms adversely. If the occipital motion is restricted schizophrenia can result. When severe spheno-basilar symphysis locking occurs, there is frequently manic-depression. Most people are totally unaware that these mental problems may be resulting from a CSF problem.
Very little information is let out about the cerebrospinal fluid. Very little is released to the public about how over a period of time Cranial Osteopaths can develop the manipulative skill to control and change the fluctuations of these fluids. Only a few top people are allowed in on the secrets, and those people are handpicked members of the occult world. Some of the top Cranial Doctors are under Monarch-type mind control themselves. The osteopathic libraries are staffed with people loyal to keeping cranial osteopathic secrets within the occult world. Could other doctors teach themselves? The ability to manipulate the cerebral-spinal fluid is an art that has taken years to develop, and for practitioners to learn. As stated, the tests that doctors rely on such as x-rays and MRIs are too big and clumsy to be of any value in this area. The doctors would have to reinvent the wheel and then the automobile if they wanted to self-teach themselves. It often takes two to three years of study in this area, before a doctor is able to feel the movement of the fluid.
The cranial bones have sutures between them, that allow a skilled person to move them. The sutures have been proven to move as much as 1/20 of an inch. The trained finger can perceive the natural motion of these sutures even if the natural motions are only 1/40 of an inch. In McCattys excellent book Essentials of Cranio-Sacral Osteopathy, (Bath, Eng.: Ashgrove Press) p. 3 he states, "Contrary to some schools of thought, all circumstances being normal, the cranial sutures (or joints of the head) do not fuse--regardless of age, race, sex, or geographic location. They are perpetually motile, influencing the dynamics of fluid exchange and mebraneous tension within the cramo-sacral mechanism."
When early cranial osteopaths like Sutherland looked at the skull and its membranes and cartilage they realized that the 18 human bones that make up the head were actually designed to articulate (move slightly). In fact, researchers have discovered the cranium has 3 distinct oscillations. (Magoun, Harold Ives, D.O. Osteopathy in the Cranial Field, p.322).
Maud Nerman, D.O. presented the outline of an interesting lecture and lab class that she gave in 1992, entitled "Visualizing the brain under our hands" in which she taught the techniques for feeling the bones of the brain move with CS Fluid fluxuations, as well as sensing what it was doing internally. Coordinating the movement of the skull bones with the movement of the CS Fluid was called "directing the tide" by W.G. Sutherland. His Journal of the Osteopathic Cranial Assoc. reported successes doing this. Ronald McCatty teaches that "some heads are less pliant than other". The practitioner will rest his trained hands on the head, wait, and allow the cranial motion to teach the cranial osteopath what is happening or needs to happen. The client will usually be laying down, and the doctor will be relaxed and focused. The motion of the CS Fluid is called the Cranial Rhythmic Impulse (CR1). It will pulse about 10-14 times/mm. in normal adults and 12-16 times/mm. in children. When a person is frightened the CR1 can stop for up to 20 seconds. (The mind is literally frozen.) Tranquilizers will slow the CR1 rate down, as well as poor health.
For someone who has been traumatized, such as with electroshock, the very mention of the traumatic event, will cause the CR1 to temporarily stop. The cranial osteopath does not really force any bones, but rather gently encourages a skull bone in the direction it should go. Lightness of touch is a necessity. An example of the health benefits of the trained osteopath is given by McCatty, "That kink in the straight sinus can be, and often is, one of the primary causes of epilepsy and internal hydrocephalus..." By treating the kink the osteopath takes care of the problem, where the standard method is often to give the subject strong drugs.
To give an example of how the CS Fluid (CSF) can relate to our state of mind, consider the following by McCatty, "And again, change of direction of C.S.F. from anterior-posterior to lateral is of paramount importance in the sleep-wake phenomenon. When you are standing there is parallel action of C.S.F. flow. When you lie down with your head on a pillow this alters, you impinge on one or other temporal bone, you decelerate C.S.F. activity. You, as it were, slow down the pendulum. You inhibit parallel action. By inhibiting this pendulum you automatically produce an anteroposterior swing which is parasympathetic; that is to say, the parts of the automatic nervous system that slow down the action of the heart when the body is not under stress, in order to conserve bodily energy." This author thought it was exciting to understand better how the mind/body relaxes and slows down when we lay our heads down.
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION (TM) & the HINDU CONNECTION
Years ago, back in 1974, this author was a West Point cadet who was watching the U.S. Army introduce TM into the academy. It was presented as a scientific technique, and many officers, some friends and other cadets availed themselves of the chance to train themselves in TMs mystical method of training. A fellow cadet who was already trained in martial arts quickly learned the techniques. After initially maintaining a safe distance, this author decided to investigate TM after I got out of the military. The U.S. government gave substantial grants to get TM introduced into this country. Fortunately, Christians didnt sleep long, and exposed that TM is Hinduism. Everyone that is taught TM is initiated into it by the TM instructor singing a puja (worship) song in Sanskrit which is a Hindu devotional song while incense and candles burn.
Until the Christians exposed this, our national government went blithely along in promoting Hinduism into our public schools. For instance, the Dept. of Health, Education, & Welfare gave a $21,540 grant for 150 high school teachers to learn TM. TM has grown to be a powerful organization, with many organizations set up attached to it. It has its international headquarters at Hotel Sonnenberg in the Swiss village of Seelisberg.
When I investigated TM back in 1975, this TM instructor who was friends of mine, talked about her experience at Seelisberg. From the conversation with her it was obvious that people had had to surrender their will to the organization to go to Seelisberg, and some mind altering experiences had taken place there. She participated in the Siddhi program to be able to dematerialize, walk through walls and levitate. But the program clearly had emotionally disturbed her and others who had been in it. Once a person is involved in the higher levels of TM, you dont just walk away from this cult. From my personal observations, I discovered that TM is involved in some types of mind-manipulation, and that the organization is not above using deceit on unsuspecting people.
What then becomes doubly interesting is that after observing these things, I learned that TM have a large interest in the cranial osteopathic techniques which can alter the mind and personality of a person. For instance, this author has obtained a list of TM instructors in Santa Monica, CA area who are also Doctors of Cranial Osteopathy. (But bear in mind, this whole thing is bigger than labels, when people are interested in the occult they study eclectically.) These TM Cranial Osteopaths are concentrated where TM has a secret MUM Mountain, CA training site. There are cranial doctors in the nearby towns of Aptos, Capitola, Cupertino, Hollister, Los Gatos, Salinas, Santa Cruz, Saratoga and Watsonville. Its boggles the mind that 12 cranial doctors are needed for the rural area near MUM Mountain, while L.A. only has 10. Concentrations of cranial doctors occur in close proximity to TM centers, particularly around the Maharishi University in Fairfield, 10 as well as the secret MUM Mountain training center. Other cranial DOs who are part of TM are scattered about the United States.
Another observation which I made, was that some of the people that got really big into TM are still searching for something to fill the voids and needs of their life. TM didnt turn out to be as big of an answer as they expected. TM is not the final answer. However, the Maharishi who brought TM to America has a college in Fairfield, Iowa (the Maharishi International University) and 20 North American "heavenly communities" operating in the quest to create a heaven on earth. The Maharishi International University has been used for medical experimentation on people. The close connections between the leadership of TM and the Illuminati leadership suggests that TM is being used as another haven for the NWOs mind-control to be perpetrated on unsuspecting victims. There are bone-setters in India also. Perhaps the Maharishi got his original interest in the potential for mind-control via skull manipulation in India. Wherever the interest came from, it is evident that TM in America is involved in skull manipulation for its mind-control results.
The 3-in-One school Connection.
If one wants to surrender oneself to a cult, and allow ones mind to be control, in order to learn, the 3-in-1 school will be happy to teach you about what others would call phrenology and manipulation of the skull to control thinking. The school has a number of courses. They do not call their principles phrenology. Nor do they call their instruction mind-control. They identify to the student areas of the head and what type of thinking that area of the head is involved with. They also provide information so that their students can evaluate how people will act based on the shape of their heads and how that shape will interact with other shapes. The school is located at 2001 West Magnolia Blvd., Burbank, CA 91506, ph. no. 818-841-4786. They teach Ericksonian Hypnosis (good for programmers to know), Bodywork (incl. cranial osteopathy, which is good for programmers to know), and they teach NLP, Mind-controlled relationships (along with scripts), Mind-controlled adolescent problems, and a pantheistic religious philosophy/religion.
When the 3-in-1 school got started they were teaching muscle-testing and other important skills to their students (who can become "facilitators" in teaching others). The muscle-manipulation they have taught is extremely gentle and way beyond what the chiropractors knew. The school in California began about 10 years ago and then a few years later they began to tighten their hold on all their graduates and their students. The school has been drawing students from Europe, Japan, China, Russia, and South America (incl. Brazil). They have moved more and more toward being an occult cult or perhaps an Illuminati front.
When given information that their muscle techniques could be used to help multiples, they have made it clear (according to one school administrator) that they are not interested in helping multiple personalities. One school administrator named Gordon Stokes said, "Were off in another direction." In fact, Gordon Stokes is the founder of 3-In-1. (Technically, a co-founder, Daniel Whiteside and Candace Callaway helped. Some speculate that the Three-in-One name refers to this triumvirate, and perhaps to their relationship together.)
Gordon Stokes has been reported to be a member of the BOTA which is an international Mystery School of the Hierarchy. BOTA stands for Builders of the Adytum. It is a Qabalistic-Hermetic Order of adepts founded in the 1920s by Dr. Paul Foster Case reportedly on direction by the hierarchy. The BOTA teaches higher states of consciousness to its adepts. It is located at 5105 No. Figueroa St., Los Angeles, CA 90042. Daniel Whitesides parents are deeply involved in personology. And Candace Calloways mother, their book keeper, has also been a major figure at the 3-in-1 school. This 3-in-1 school in Burbank seems to be a finishing school for Illuminati programmers. The school ridicules people who want to examine their life or have a conscience. Christianity is considered to be an obnoxious tyrannical religion by the school. The information that they teach would be very helpful for mind-control programmers, and their occult philosophy would scare off moral people from participating.
The 3-In-1 research has been geared into how the brain works. Their research shows that if a person has more brain cells in a particular region of the brain, they are more developed in that intellectual area. For instance, if the Action-based-on-feeling area (the parietal lobe) has lots of cells, the person will be more active than thoughtful. If the person has more cells in the brains Conscious-associational thinking area (frontal lobes) they will think more than act. They call their system based upon this research comparative cell proportion. There were many ancient works that noticed personality traits in relationship to head shapes.
Three-In-One article "The Background of Structure/Function" states, "You can read about the basis of Structure/Function in the Hebrew CABALAS book of ZOHAR (which is literally Aristotles PHYSIOGNOMONICA) as well as in the writings of Maimonides and those of almost every famous Arabian philosopher during Medieval times." (Stokes, Daniel. The Background of Structure/Function, 1991, p. 2) The Cranial Academys The Cranial Letter also picked up on the connection between the Cabala and cranial manipulation.
A class on the "Cabala and Osteopathy" is advertized in the May 95 issue, p. 9. Until Freud captured the interest of students of the mind, phrenology was psychology. Phrenology studied what could be measured, Freud got people looking for the hidden. In 1938, Dr. Edward Vincent Jones improved upon Phrenology and classic Physiognomy and developed Personology. His system was an instant hit and he was given the go ahead and conduct research on inmates at San Quentin Prison, and what is now LAs giant USC County Hospital.
Interestingly, it was not long after Jones research there, that Cisco Wheelers father (trained as a programmer) was assigned by the Illuminati to organize covens in the San Quentin Prison. The Whitesides became disciples of Jones research and went on to statistically validate his system. One of their best students then was Gordon Stokes of Sacramento, who then moved to San Francisco to be better trained by the Whitesides. As mentioned, sixty traits have been validated statistically. By looking at the skull and head, the skin, the body tone, the eyes, and other areas, the practitioners of Structure/Function can accurately tell a persons personality. Because this type of information has been in the possession of caballists, it is not surprising that the average person is ignorant of all this. However, the potential for good or evil with this knowledge is tremendous.
They also used Applied Kinesiology to defuse emotional stress. For this work they divide the brain into the dominant side (the left), and the alternate side (the right). Then each of these hemispheres is again divided between the fore and back brains for defusion. Applied Kinesiology is used to gain information about a trauma, and the defusion is used to release any negative emotional stress around an incident. (This also possibly could be used to dilute the emotional impact of some assignment done by a slave.)
In the first 3-In-1 newsletter of 1995, pg. 1, they write, "Self-image is the key to good learning performance. What magic do we use to help slow learners and people labeled as learning disabled change for the better so dramatically." This is just one minor example, of how these groups like to reframe what they do in occult terms. The mind-control programmers need only have someone skilled in the manipulation of the cranial bones and the skull bones and they can with repeated delicate precision reshape a persons skull and also his brains shape, thus manipulating the personality & looks. Photos of Marilyn Monroe (Erma Jean) during her life strongly suggest that type of cranial manipulation was done to her for mind-control purposes.
The occult world has maintained a dogged resolve to keep the deeper cranial knowledge and skills secret. Dr. Sutherlands wife wrote his story With Thinking Fingers. She states on pg. 62, "It was Dr. Sutherlands cherished dream that a day would come when the benefits to the mentally ill through the cranial component in osteopathy would be investigated..." If that was his dream, it is being hijacked today by those who see it as a tool for power over their fellow men.
A great deal of secret experimentation has gone on in underground installations with genetics. This author has had the privilege of debriefing someone who worked at the Area 51 underground installation. He was murdered after having had several long interviews with this author. Truth is stranger than fiction. It goes without saying that the Illuminati has gathered up every hair-brained idea for controlling and manipulating the human race. That doesnt mean everyone of them has been attempted, but they have the means to carry out very bizarre experiments in their underground facilities, such as the ones at Area 51.
There is no question that they have tried to augment natural human features and replace natural human parts. Who knows what weird transgenetic or cybernetic beings have been created? This author knows that they have been successful in some of their work at reshaping humans. This author has accumulated a great deal of information on the underground installations from eyewitnesses, but there is no way of knowing what is accurate and what is disinformation. However, a few details are definite. These underground installations are massive and they involve genetic manipulation to create new species or breed special types of people. In the Vol. 2 book, we discussed the Aquaman subspecies that the NWO has created with gills and special skin. These people look like normal people unless observed closely. They had extra genetic material inserted in the genetic material that created them. They are called Transgenic humans because they still closely resemble other people.
In order for transgenetic humans to pass their new added features to the next generation they need to mate with other similar transgenetic humans. However, the NWO has been secretly creating Chimeras. Chimeras is the widely used name for beast-men. This research is generally not for the public to see but is done in some of the underground facilities listed in Appendix 2. An example would be a creature that was half human and half some other beast.
On a BBC TV show on Oct. and Nov. 1988, the British showed the result of a gorilla being artificially inseminated with a human sperm. The experiment was done by British researchers working for the government and the result ended in a child looking remarkably like a normal person. However, the common people who viewed it were outraged. Most people are not really excited about scientists playing God and destroying the human race by genetic tampering. Of course the scientists who do these genetic games have lots of excuses and rationales, many of which have been put into print, to justify their research.
People are being bred for specific purposes by the Illuminati, just like this author bred dairy cows. Parents with certain desired features are obtained. (In fact, the Nazis secret superdog Lowenhertz Dogo Argentino - which looks like a race of weight-lifting dogs, and the secret 100 yr. old Paraguayan Nueva Germania colony of special bred Aryans are still in existence.)
The NY Times had an article on 9/17/92 where a Washington psychiatrist Dr. Peter Breggin accused the federal government of a genetic "violence initiative" in which the government was involved with genetic research as it relates to crime and violence. Dr. Susan Solomon, is one of the governments leaders involved in researching violence. However, from what this author can gather, the governments research is far more reaching that the NY Times article even begins to imply. By genetic breeding and manipulation, the Illuminati are trying to strengthen certain mental features. Considering that this has already been done for centuries by mankind to other species, for instance, when mankind domesticated the horse, the dog, the cat, the lama, the chicken, then it is no secret that a docile servile slave class of humans can be created. The primary goal of this Illuminati breeding is to create a class of people who can work together with others (herd instinct), and who will take orders willingly. Independent thinking and intelligence are not wanted. Educational goals and a world-wide educational system that can accommodate these types of workers is being created world-wide to deal with the eventual working-class- drones that the Illuminati want to create. The creation of this educational system at this present time has four goals, 1. to develop a group mindset, 2. to have education carried out by the multinational corporations, 3. to have students educated on the premise that truth is relative, 4. to teach compliance.
Already the public schools in America are gearing up for the government to dictate what occupations young students can study for. In other words, our educational system is being set up for mind-control, and this is to eventually work hand-in-hand with worker slaves that have the genetics needed to be good compliant stupid slaves.
There have also been studies of intelligence such as the five volume Genetic Studies of Genius started by L.M. Terman in 1925, (pub. by Univ. of Stanford Press). The World Order has specific and successful methods to create a class of technical people. At this point, people whose thinking abilities have been created by the monitoring/ manipulating of their genetics is a small but increasing number. Genetic control of breeding is unfortunately where the programmers are headed. This is not happening for the genetic betterment of the human species, this is for the perverted lusts of these demon-possessed megalomaniacs who think they deserve to rule with a sadistic iron fist. Those who mistakenly think the mind- control programmers are trying to improve the human race, need to get to know the programmers better. (See Appendix A for biographical information on some of the programmers.) Those poor gullible naive people who think that when the global masters visibly introduce the New World Order that the NWO will be tolerable if they can simply keep their noses clean, not fight back, and do their jobs, are sadly mistaken. They do not know the dark - sinister side to these global masters. As one man very close to the center of power said to a common man about the men who rule the world, "If you stepped on an ant, you would have more conscience than the global elite have in manufacturing wars and killing millions of people. They want power and they intend to amass total power no matter what the cost."
Another area of ILLUMINATI DECEPTION & CONTROL--
Ionizing radiation used in conjunction with chemicals to manipulate the genetics of the mind; or say this another way: USING RADIATION & CHEMICALS TO CHANGE GENETICS associated WITH THINKING.
When a retired high-ranking military man first told this author that radiation research had to do with mind-control, my reaction was probably like most peoples, puzzlement. I thought that radiation was quite lethal and that genetic research with radiation was to protect us from some kind of atomic attack. Wrong. That is a nice cover story.
Since that retired colonel (who may not have long to live) talked to me, others have said similar things. Like many things that the World Order does, if we dont have a frame of reference of what is going on, we can live around what they are doing day in and day out and never see all the clues as to what is going on under our noses.
One trauma-based mind-controlled slave (Chris DeNicola) spied on the files of the doctor who did radiation experiments on her. She saw the following radiation file headings, & their codes: Canker Sore (D-7040), Laser Documentation (D-7000), Nautical Science (D-1015), Pediatric Radionthology (L-6542) [One idea is that this file might pertain to child alters.], Penetrating Wave Activity, Radiation Experimentation (L-6540), Radioactive Distortions, Radioactive Material Contamination, Radioactive verification, Radioactive Waves, Radionthology, Electrolite Prodigies Experiments (654-011), Laser Light Distortions experiments (654-012), & Laserlight Technology experiments (101-015). One reason, that this author is providing the code numbers of these files, is that memories of slaves who are involved in these experiments or projects often are internally coded with these file codes. The date the experiment was done will also be added as part of the code.
When this author researched their genetic research, I was utterly amazed at how many institutions world-wide are carrying out deep research into genetics--much of which will contribute to the enslavement and mind-control of the human race.
Just a sampling of countless labs working hard on this mind- control related genetic research include Brookhaven National Labs. Upton, NY; John Hopkins Univ., Baltimore, MD; Institut fur Genetik, the Free University of Berlin, Germany; Institute of Hygiene & Epidemiology, Czech.; Radiation Genetic Lab & Chemical Mutagenesis, State Univ. Of Leiden, Sylvius Labs, Leiden, The Netherlands; MIT, Cambridge, MA; Gesellschaft für Strahlen und Umweltforschung, Munich, Germany; National Inst. of Environmental Health Sciences Research Triangle Park, NC; Sandoz Labs in Basle, Switzerland; Biology Division, Oak Ridge National Lab, Oak Ridge, TN; Roswell Underground Labs, NM; Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, CA; Shell Labs, Kent, England; University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; the Zentrallabor für Mutagenitätsprüfung der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinshaft, Freiburg, Germany.
This is just a tiny sampling of the enormous world wide research devoted to genetics that pertain to mind-control. While there are numerous surnames among the genetic researchers, because this author knows as a fact that some of these researchers are Illuminati, it doesnt quiet ones curiosity to see the better known Illuminati surnames such as Dupont, Hersey, Fox, Frey, Jung, Li, Paterson, Stuart, Sinclair, Sutherland, and Russell appearing among the genetic researchers doing research that pertains to mind-control.
Obviously, this author cant give all the ways they have figured out to use radiation, along with chemicals and genetics to control the human race. I will try to give you a peek in the window. The real deep & dangerous information is of course highly classified material and protected by their mind-control of those scientists who work for them.
When I say mind-control, that includes such methods as blackmail and threats of assassination.
There is a type of radiation called ionizing radiation-that means it is radiation that gives off electrons (thus producing ions). There are many different types of ionizing radiation. Some go right through the body, some damage the cells, but the body repairs itself, some causes genetic changes, and some simply hits your cells like a sledge hammer & kills them.
The ionizing radiation that changes genetics has been the focus of an incredibly enormous amount of (mostly secret) research. Genes are instructions that tell non-life material how to organize itself into something living. A gene consists of genetic material called DNA and RNA. Genes also provide instructions for how something is to develop. As a person or animal develops, the genes interact with the environment to create what the person or animal is like. For instance, different breeds of dogs when born are more similar, than after they grow up. Different breeds of dogs have been bred for different genetic traits, and as different breeds grow up, their genes continually interact with the environment to create the adult dog.
So full genetic expression can take a life-time. The link between genetics and behaviour can be seen in this quote from the Quarterly Review of Biology (art. by T.C. Schneirla, 1966, p. 283), "Behavioural ontogenesis is the backbone of comparative psychology. Shortcomings in its study inevitably handicap other lines of investigation from behavioural evolution and psychogenetics to the study of individual and group behavior."
Genetic psychology has revealed that the genes program in methods for an organism to adjust to their environment. So genetic instruction is, for instance, more than just the instruction "be smart, be aggressive, be tall" but it is tailoring the way a persons develops to deal with its environment. In other words, behaviours are programmed into a person via their genes (genetic instructions) to provide mechanisms for quick, dynamic adaptions to changing circumstances. These mechanisms (created by genetic codes) may even have the person (or animal) reverse their behaviour for purposes of survival.
p_8-1
Within the human brain (also all mammal brains) all the neurons are believed to be generated before birth with the exception of the following cells: granule cells of the olfactory bulb, fascia dentala granule cells in the hippocampus, the granule cells of the cerebellar cortex, and the granule cells of rhombic lip in the brainstem.
Its the brainstem cells that the Illuminati manipulate through brain stem scarring to produce photographic memories for their scientists and computer programmers. The germinal cells create neurons in the germinal zone. Brain cells with a common function develop from a common lineage although from different sites. After a new neuron develops in the germinal zone, they migrate to whatever location they are to live in. The complicated process of how a neuron discovers where to go (migrate to in the brain) has been not been discovered according to what this author has read. When neurons establish themselves they deal with certain neurotransmitters, that establish communication between them and other neurons.
Researchers have discovered that neurons can change their own make up to take different neurotransmitters if they decide their "environment" in the brain needs it. They also grow their dentrite connections depending on what type of connections are needed for that particular brain to function. For instance, a piano player will develop dentrite connections to be able to play well.
These discoveries show once again that even on the cellular level, genetic instructions are complex and designed to give flexibility and adaptability of the cell to the situation for the cell. Genetic programming begins at the cellular level. There is a cellular consciousness besides the consciousness that we think about. DNA structures which are inherited affect the cellular consciousness. Body memories are contained within the physiological structure. The first brain and the body work off a stimulus-response recording mechanism. Body memory and programming are stored at this level. This is an area of the brain that is always on. However, its view or perception of events is not an exact copy of what other higher brains are thinking. Your conscious mind doesnt remember how the stairs and the room are arranged, but in the dark, you primal part of your mind helps guide your steps.
Various drugs and chemicals have been identified that influence particular learning sequences in the mind, such as imprinting. For instance, hexamethonium chloride antagomzes the nicotinic actions of acetylcholine on the ganglia, or in other words, acetylcholine will depolarize the ganglia but is prevented by the hexamethonium. The overall result is that impulses that the sympathetic ganglia would transmit are blocked. This is just one example of countless examples of how a specific chemical can affect a specific brain action.
There is a branch of genetic research called "developmental social behaviour genetics" which deals with how genetics program in social behaviours of animals and people. For instance, these geneticists study how genes create aggression, courtship, territorial behaviours, behaviours involving mothers and fathers, dominance (peeking order) behaviors, sexual behaviors, attraction behaviors, recognition behaviors, etc.
Men are very much controlled by the sexual lusts, power lusts, and aggressive behaviors. Can the reader see how genetic manipulation of these genetic based behaviors could radically change the potential behavior of a person. A foxs genes cause him to react differently than a rabbits genes. Having a rabbit grow up in a fox home is not going to change the genetic instructions. (The Bible even says, Can a leopard change its spots?) But the World Order has figured out how to change those instructions.
Genetic researchers had to begin sorting out behaviours, and sorting out genes that affected them. For instance, genes create a persons (or animal) reproductive "instincts". These instructions include instructions on fighting, nest building, mating, and care of their offspring. These genetic instructions are different for different people and different animals. Researchers into imprinting have discovered that IF a set of animals (or people) is prevented from learning a particular imprint, and IF that set of animals breed, THEN they pass on a lack of ability to receive that imprint. In other words, genetically we learn from generation to generation.
Lets say that we prevent men from naturally imprinting a sexual desire for women as they grow up. If we mate those men to women, the offspring will show a reduced ability to be heterosexual. Males seem to develop their sexuality, but females seem to react more on the basis of genetically present "releasers". Genetic researchers have gone in and identified what peoples behavioural instructions specifically are, and how to change them. The instructions are written in DNA, and manipulation of DNA can change those instructions.
When I researched their genetic research, I found that they have developed maps for how to change genetic material to change those instructions concerning behaviour. The maps for changing human genes related to behaviour are classified, but an example of one that isnt is found in the book The Genetics of Behaviour (ed. Ehrman & Parsons. Sinauer Assoc., Inc. publ.: Sunderland, Mass, 1976, chapter 8 figure 4.). This map shows 3 sites in a HK gene that are intentionally mutated by the scientists in order to change the way a particular fly sings its mating call. The specific changes in how the fly sings its new mating call (after the genetic code is changed by geneticists) are even graphed out in a recording graph in another book Developmental Behavior Genetics: Neural, Biometrical, and Evolutionary Approaches (ed. by Hahn et. al., Oxford, Eng.: Oxford Univ. Press, 1990, Fig. 6-1.)
Again bear in mind that we only get the crumbs of what they know. We get a map of how they can change the way a fly sings a song--while they secretly keep the genetic maps to change human behaviour! An easy example of how genetics play a role in human behaviour can be seen in how infants behave toward their mothers and toward strangers. By using twins and adopted children, etc. it could be clearly demonstrated that the behaviour of a child in how it touches its mother was genetically inherited. But remember that the genetic instructions as a child grow older are designed to give it flexibility in relationship to its environment, so the environment is going to interact with the genetics to form the final behaviours. The study of these reactions of genes to the environment is called the study of epigenesis.
Another easy example of the genetic role in human behaviour is that intelligence has been linked to brain to body size. Genes ultimately determine that ratio of brain to body size. The factors involved are largely prenatal maternal influences. A great deal has been learned in this area. Brain size relates less to body size than it is a function of body metabolism. (See Research by Lande & Martin) To give a tiny sample of the types of genetic studies done in this area:
Hahn, M.E., & Haber, S.B. "Dominance for large brains in laboratory mice..." Behavior Genetics, 1979, 9, pp. 243-244.
Fuller, J.L. & Geils, H. "Brain growth in mice selected for high and low brain weight." Developmental Psychobiology, 1972, 5, pp. 307-318.
Riska, B., & Atchley, W.R. "Genetics of growth predict patterns of brain-size evolution." Science, 1985, 229, pp. 668-671.
Research into how to control humans genetically proceeded in several directions. First, scientists realized that radiation was the key to changing genetics. Radiation causes breaks and changes in the DNA instructions. If only one little bit of genetic DNA instruction is changed in 1 million bits of information, that change could radically change the life of the person or animal. We see that everyday cleft lips... But how does radiation affect genetics? DNA has been studied from every angle. DNA has been looked at, probed, tested with all kinds of chemicals and countless other manipulations. The scientists figured exactly how the different DNA is constructed, what makes it tick, how it joins, holds together, reproduces, etc. They can disassemble and rebuild DNA however they want. DNA is the genetic instructions.
Since radiation will affect DNA they tested a long list of ionizing radiation substances on DNA. Different radiations will break the DNA in different ways. Chemicals will join to DNA in certain ways. Long story short, there are millions of ways to manipulate genetic material, and the World Order set out to discover how to precisely manipulate certain kinds of genetic material in certain ways.
An example of how skilled they are in understanding most everything about to construct and take apart the molecules of genetic material, at Cold Spring Harbor Labs one of the 1997 courses offered students is Molecular Cloning of Neural Genes. They understand what makes a nerve cell and how to create one. This science is called molecular neurobiology. (This course at Cold Springs H.L. happens to be taught by instructors from Rockefeller Univ., Harvard, John Hopkins, and UC of Berkeley.)
One area of intense study for many years was a long-term scramble to find chemicals that would cause different types of mutations in DNA. This research was called Comparative Chemical Mutagenesis. In fact one of the books this author studied was entitled just that Comparative Chemical Mutagenesis (ed. by DeSerres & Shelby). This books Chapters 16-18, 22-25 are about chemical-genetic research concerning how to create genetic changes in mammals using chemicals!
When it comes to genetics, much of what is learned from studying one mammal will apply to humans. The chemical principles are the same, the DNA is written in the same code, only the genetic instructions written in that code is different. To make an analogy, this book is written in English. Once someone understands how English works, they can take apart a sentence and rewrite it. Top level Genetic scientists know how to take apart genetic instructions and rewrite them. Radiation used in conjunction with chemicals presents them a tool for the mass editing of human genetic instructions. No wonder the Chernobyl nuclear accident happened. (Insiders in the know say that it was caused on purpose.) What a great way to carry out more mind-control research.
According to public research, genetic mutations were created by scientists in mammal cells first in 1968. It is likely that this had already been accomplished in secrecy before this. Labs all over the world went about testing genetic material with specialized chemicals to see what would happen to various genetic material when it came in contact with specific chemicals. Some of the commonly- tested mutagent chemicals that were widely tested to discover their "mutagenicity" (mutagenicity is the word geneticists use to describe the power of a chemical to cause a mutation) include:
Aflatoxin B1 (AFT)(This is a mold metabolite and is not always effective without another agent.)
Cadmium chloride
Cadmium salts
Cyclophosphamide (CP)
Dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)
Epichlorohydrin
Ethylenimine
Ethyl Methanesulfonate (EMS)
Methyl methanesulfonate (MMS)
Mitomycin C (a strong mutagenic at low doses)
Myleran (aka Busulfan)
N.Methyl-N,-Nitro - N - Nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)
Natulan (aka procarbazine, this chemical was strongly mutagenic in the lab with the presence of S-9, but weak without the presence of S-9)
Tepa
Theo-Tepa
Trenimon
Triethylenemelamine
Vinyl chloride
When these chemicals (and others) were tested on genetic material, the mutations they caused in the genetic material were observed, and then the specific type of mutation each caused was charted. Some caused chromosome-type changes, others caused chromatid-type changes, and some caused sub- or half- chromatid changes (these sub-changes usually were in the mitotic portion of the cell cycle.) When the chemicals broke chromosomes they were called clastogens. Others cause chromosomes to lose genetic material by damaging the mitotic apparatus. Many of the chemicals that were first tested only produced chemical changes in the chromatid-type of change. They discovered that the protective mechanisms of animals, plants and humans were protecting against many of their induced mutations, but they also learned what mutations they could create that the body would not fix or recover from.
Along with finding out what certain chemicals would do, the World Order wanted to find out what would happen at the molecular level of DNA when subjected to different types of radiation. The key to using radiative material is that there are many different types of radiative substances, not just uranium. For instance, cadmium is radioactive and can be used in genetic manipulation. In researching radiation, the first stage is when free radicals are created. This takes only a very small fraction of a second. The next is the chemical transformation of those radicals into stable radiation substances, and finally the last stage are the effects of these substances when the body incorporates them. The effects of the radiation substances on a person may last several years. The effects of radiation take place on the molecular level of DNA.
When you and I went to school we were taught that DNA occurs as a double-helix around an invisible common axis. The core of the helix is a series of purine and pyrimidine bases stacked in a parallel array and are arranged almost perpendicular to the invisible axis of the helix. However, the reality is that DNA can also exist in three (triple) double-stranded helix structures which are called the A-DNA, the B-DNA, and the C-DNA. At high humidities the A-DNA will transform into a B- DNA if excess salt is in the area. In A-DNA the normal of the base pairs is tilted by 200 to the helix axis. In contrast, in the B-DNA the base pairs are perpendicular. In some viruses and bacteria single stranded DNA is found. DNA also comes in supercoiled in some situations.
The point is simply that DNA occurs in ways other than we learned in school. They discovered that the energy of the sugar-phosphate backbone of the DNA allows for the DNA bases to be stacked, and is the key to the stability of the DNA. The verticle stacking of the bases gives stability of the DNA helix. They discovered that the helical structure of DNA is strongly influenced by its base composition and molecular weight. I mention these only to point out, that they know all about what DNA is and how it is built and holds itself together.
The genetic-radiation researchers had to learn how the bases of the DNA held together electronically. They needed to learn how well these molecules of these different bases would accept electrons or donate electrons, because ionized radiation is substances that give off electrons or other ionizing particles. Directly ionizing particles are atomic particles that are charged such as electrons, protons, alpha (a) particles, "heavy" ions, etc.).
An example of something the researchers found is that the cytosine base was the best acceptor of all the DNA bases. They began the process of testing different radioactive substances on DNA to see how they would cause mutations. To study this type of research, this author read several books such as Effects of Ionizing Radiation on DNA (Springer-Verlag Publ.: Berlin, Germany, 1978). An example of a chapter in this book is "Radiation-Induced Degradation of the Base Component in DNA and Related Substances". This chapter shows charts of what happens to DNA components (such as thymine, cytosine, & uracil) when they are exposed to radiation. This author wants to cover some details of the type of discoveries these researchers made to make a point that specific chemicals and specific types of ionizing radiation will produce different effects upon DNA. Although these are very specific minute details, the reason they are mentioned here, is that the bottom line is that SOME CHEMICALS WORK WITH SOME TYPES OF RADIATION TO PRODUCE SPECIFIC MUTATIONS.
They discovered that if a mutagenic such as aminoacridine dye is absorbed by cells, this dye which binds to the nucleic acids, absorbs light to such a degree that the cells are destroyed. Different variations of dyes bind to the DNA in different strong and weak binding processes. Lambda radiation was tested on DNA. They observed that positive and negative ions were randomly produced throughout the DNA and that these are chemically unstable and undergo free radical reactions to form stable radiation products. They discovered that there was a consistent "oxygen effect" which was made into a radiobiological law which described how the presence of oxygen enhances radiation damage in all forms of cell life.
Another interesting discovery was that 5-bromouracil (BU) enhanced the rate of radiation-induced free radicals forming within gamma-irradiated DNA. Researchers discovered that an naturally occurring substance in cells, the sulthydryls, would bind with iodoacetic acid and N-ethylmaleimide, which made them radiosensitive, and would result in certain mutations. Still one more example of a compound that works with radiation to cause changes in the DNA is triacetoneamine-N-oxyl (or TAN for short). This is a stable free radical that combines with DNA. TAN comes from a group of nitroxide free radicals which all have the same influence on DNA. Metronidazole (aka Flagyl) was also found to be another of the nitroimidazoles and nitrofuranes that are oxygen mimics that worked in the lab as radiosensitizers of DNA.
Chemical-Biological Weapons are referred to as CB Weapons. In a transcript attached to the Dept. of Defense appropriations for 1970 (part 6) that I have of CB Weapons researchers talking, they indicate that the United States has BZ which "brings about complete mental disorientation as well as sedation which induces sleep. First of all the individual is completely confused as to what he is doing or what he is supposed to do and in addition he has hallucinations. He cannot carry out his assigned duties nor can he remember what his assigned duties were." The affect of BZ lasts for about 3 days and then the person will begin to recover. It can be given via the air or the water. If it is drank or inhaled it will work. It takes affect about 1 to 1 ½ hours after it is ingested. There are a number of corporations that can produce BZ in the U.S. At the time of the transcript, it was stated that BZ is $20/lb. and a lead time of six months for production.
Chemical incapacitants have been developed that affect the mental functions of the mind in various ways. Today, research and deployment continues of chemical and radioactive substances that can control people. One of the methods that chemical and radioactive materials work is to change genetic structures. Some of the genetic changes that can be created chemically, are chemical changes that affect the way the mind thinks. In a nutshell, we are looking at a situation where the thinking of an entire race could be altered via chemicals dropped into their air and water. How long would these genetic changes last? It is conceivable that some of the changes might have long range consequences. Again, the bottom line is that the World Order has at its disposal radioactive substances that can distributed in conjunction with chemicals to mind-control large geographic regions by genetic manipulation. These radioactive substances and chemicals can be distributed over vast areas by the air and water of a geographic region. It is conceivable that within a short time, the United States will experience chemicals administered via the air, or the drinking water used in conjunction with specific external stimuli to reinforce certain types of mind-control programming on a mass of people. A chemical that makes people susceptible to suggestion could be used over a geographic area while hypnotic television messages and ELF waves, etc. contribute to the mind-control operation.
Therapists are going to begin encountering victims of mind-control born in the 1960s or later that have been subjected to chemical-radiation changes to the genetics that control human behaviour. There are already dozens of very vocal victims of both radiation experiments & mind-control that are speaking up. Unfortunately, the ones that this author knows do not have a long life-expectancy, and speaking up usually has the effect of shortening a whistle-blowers life.
In this Deeper Insights book, the movie Jacobs Ladder was mentioned. This movie shows a unit in Vietnam which was given a drug to make them aggressive, but the drug backfired because they killed each other. However, the reason the movie was allowed to be produced is that it was a good cover for the fact that the military did not give up, but that they actually succeeded in producing their "magic chemical potion" to turn soldiers into killing machines. The biology of aggression has been figured out. Military studies on the relationship between drugs and the ability to kill have been numerous, one example is Gabriel, R.A. Military Psychiatry: A Comparative Perspective. NY: Greenport Press, 1986. The World Order has the ability to create the warrior spirit, actually its worse than that, they have the ability to turn men into killing machines.
As horrible as the physical manipulation of the brain and its fluids is, and as monstrous as the genetic manipulation of the growth of the brain as outlined in this chapter are, they are only a few methods of mind-control of many that the Illuminati have at their disposal. These techniques seriously raise the question how much longer will humanity as we know it survive? The next generation of children will have to face mind-control in the form of genetic tampering and the use of chemicals already stockpiled by the NWO.
p_8-2.jpg
9-1.jpg
[back]
