# Deeper Insights: APPENDIX 3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/mindcontrol2/appendix03.htm

APPENDIX 3. CLONES, SYNTHETICS, ORGANIC ROBOTOIDS AND DOUBLES
[back]
PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED GENETIC EVENTS
Section A. The "Future Shock" that this topic subjects the
common person to
Section
B. Instructions on how to clone a person
A TECHNIQUE--INSTRUCTIONS HOW TO CLONE A HUMAN
Section C. The four types of "clones" that are used by the
Illuminati,
1. actual clones,
2. synthetic people,
3. organic robotoids,
4. doubles (look alikes)
How the memory of a person is transferred for the organic robotoids
Section D. Secret cloning sites (See also Appendix B, where D.U.M. bases are
listed.)
Simon Wiesenthal
OREGONS UNDERGROUND SECRET CLONING FACILITY
FURTHER INVESTIGATIONS AT DULCES UNDERGROUND CLONING FACILITY
SUMMARY OF THE FOUR METHODS.
FINAL NOTES.
Clintons
PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED GENETIC EVENTS
1890-- A rabbit embryo was successfully transplanted to a foster mother rabbits uterus.
1944-- A human ova was fertilized in vitro, that is in laymans terms an egg was artificially inseminated in a test tube.
1952-- Briggs & King in Indiana University clone a frog.
1970s-- Rand Corporation predicts that "para-humans" will be genetically created to do menial tasks in the future. In a totally different affair, Lord Rothschild, who is a physiologist who has studied genetics, warned that self-centered fanatics might set up cloning shops privately. Lord Rothschild suggested to genetic scientists that a clone controlling organization with world wide jurisdiction to license cloning be set up to protect the world from evil men who might want to clone people for evil purposes. He called his suggestion Commission for Genetical Control."
1977-- Announcement of the first successful cloning of a person, which was done for someone very wealthy. This whole affair came under strong attack by the establishment. The book giving the shrouded details came out in 1978. The author went into hiding, and our Congress had a parade of establishment research doctors testify at a hearing to debunk the book and to reassure the public that medical researchers were too concerned about ethics to clone people. The author was convinced of the veracity of the cloning event, although the media/establishment doctors claimed the author wrote the book merely as fiction.
1980-- Twinning (bisection of an embryo), which is a form of cloning was successfully done with horse foals, sheep and cattle had -already been cloned in this fashion in the previous years.
1981-- Mice are cloned. And embryo transfer for cattle becomes a thriving business.
1983-- A water buffalo embryo was successfully transplanted to a foster mother buffalo.
1984-- A human embryo was successfully transplanted and born with a human foster mother.
1997--A successful human clone is publicly announced.
Scientists working in secret got serious about cloning in the early 1960s. Abortions began to be performed wholesale at this time to provide fetal tissue for their cloning work. The young generation of Americans are asking, When will cloning of people take place?" The answer is that it already has long ago. An article recently written by Andrew Kimbrell that was placed in many leading daily papers across the U.S. is quite revealing. He comes right up to almost telling people what has been going on. The article was entitle, "Science is about to Deliver." (June 22, 1993) "...most Americans are unaware of the real-life exploits of current genetic engineers, science facts which in many cases are as chilling as any science fiction....Pigs have been genetically designed to contain human-growth genes in the hopes of creating "super pigs" that would have more meat. "...U.S. government and private researchers have expended billions of taxpayer dollars in the creation of tens of thousands of genetically engineered animals never before seen....One prominent scientist predicts that we may soon see "five-ton cows and pigs 12 feet long and 5 feet tall. "Genetic engineers.. .have cloned higher mammals, including cattle....One writer notes that "genetic engineering has the potential to create a vast army of identical clones, each produced to some preset specification. Canon fodder, scientists, opera singers, all could be manufactured to order..." "The New York Times has editorialized, Life is special, and humans even more so, but biological machines are still machines that now can be altered, cloned, and patented. " --(WOW! Readers do YOU REALIZE THAT BETWEEN THE LINES THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT BIONIC ROBOTOIDS--the robots that are now being created to take the place of people in high places. And the chilling idea that human-like machines will be produced that will not be treated as anything but machines--that is a chilling idea too.
In this authors September, 1993 newsletter there were two article by this author on cloning, one entitled "Clones, Synthetics, Organic Robotoids, and Doubles" and the other article "Dulce Genetic Research/Cloning Facility." In the month following my September 93 newsletters release, the establishment came out with stories about humans being cloned. [I felt that this was confirmation that Gods had directed me to publish the information I had on cloning 1/2 months before the secular media came out with their stories about the "first" laboratory duplication of a human embryo.]
This 93 cloning was the first publicly revealed & publicly accepted human cloning, but the truth is that it had already been done for about 30 years secretly. In December, 1993s newsletter I had a followup article on cloning where I reviewed what the media was telling people about cloning after the first" human cloning had been announced. My article also discussed the novel Multiple Man which is about how exact copies of the President are made. The book has some surprising similarities with what they actually did with President Carter!
Finally in September of 96, this authors newsletter came out with its fourth article on cloning. This appendix is not the final word on the topic. The whole topic about clones, synthetics, robotoids and doubles could have a great deal more said. This appendix is merely a review of what those four articles contained. Cloning also relates in a big way to the cranial/body manipulation that was introduced in this book. It also relates to the group mind/proxying that is being done. Perhaps at some point this author can go into the deeper intricacies of cloning, but for now this appendix will provide its information in the following format:
Section A. The "Future Shock" that this topic subjects the common person to.
What happens when a technologically backward people are suddenly confronted with a technologically advanced people? What happens is that people are called on to change, in many cases the stress is what Alvin Toffler described and called "Future Shock". The overstimulation of new ideas, new decisions, new ways of looking at things can cause great distress to the mind and body. Radical changes to adapt to the new situation are demanded. In the case of the Navajo, one can see pickups parked beside hogans. In Nepal where I lived, the Nepalese had never gone through a horse and buggy era, so they had no word for drive in their language. When cars suddenly appeared--the first was carried into Katmandu on the backs of porters, they had no word for "drive", so they used the words they had "sit and go." So where we say "Lets drive to town." They would say literally, "Lets sit and go to town."
The American people have in general been kept in the dark about the limits of scientific developments. The known reasons people have not learned are varied. The Cold War was one reason. Capitalist corporate advantage is another reason. They call it trade secrets. Scientific pride and the ability to outstrip other researchers is another, and for the public just their technical jargon is enough to prevent people from closely watching the level of research going on.
But underlying most of the coverup is this: that the overall satanic plan is to keep people ignorant of these scientific advances BECAUSE they are being used quite often to control and manipulate the world. What has developed is a situation where the American people are no longer in touch with where the elites secret technology is. It is clear that the elite know this and are aware that some of the "Future Shock" needs to reduced if they dont want to self-destruct society. You need to be aware (mentally prepared) that most of the readers of this will experience future shock when they read that cloning of humans is possible & has gone on for decades. The elite had a dilemma. If society isnt moved forward to match their secret scientific advances, it will soon be like cave-men meeting modern-day men. Society wont be capable of adjusting--only self-destructing. On the other hand they certainly cant tell us what they are already doing, because they are using this technology against us to control us. For this reason they are giving us movies that show us things that they have already invented--but these are put forth as fiction in these Hollywood films. They hope to lesson the Future Shock, which their own secrecy has greatly contributed toward creating, while maintaining control over the general population.
SOME OF THE FILMS THAT SHOW EXISTING TECHNOLOGY:
Clone--cloning; Jurassic Park--cloning
Genesis II--underground genetics laboratories that are connected by tube shuttles.
Terminal Man--brain stem implants
Star Trek--various items. In addition to some of todays secret technology being shown, the attitudes and beliefs shown on the two series, especially Star Trek the Next Generation are the attitudes the Satanic elite want people to have.
READERS PREPARE FOR FUTURE SHOCK
The Scriptures give strong indications that genetic monsters, the half-breed Nephalim will exist in the end times. Gods Word also forecasts that the mark of beast will be needed for buying & selling.
One item conveyed by the Bibles book of Revelation is that totally unexpected sudden change will characterize the end times. Christians need to be prepared for unusual big changes. So great will these changes be that the nations will be distressed, and mens hearts will fail them for fear (LK 21:25-27). The Bible predicted that knowledge shall increase in the last days before Christ returns. (DN 12:4) But that knowledge will be used for evil, because the Bible also says that the world will be totally corrupt as in Noahs time (MT 24:37)--which was a time of the genetic monsters, the half-bred Nephalim. It also says men and horses will be out of work. (ZEC 8:10) And it is believed that Nahum 2:3-4 must be describing automobiles, and that Isaiah 31:5, and 60:8 are describing and prophesying airships in the last day. The description of the "mark of the beast" is startlingly accurate in describing the microchip which is being inserted into peoples hands and foreheads.
The information that is allowed out for the public to access has been heavily censored. Still in spite of all the intense secrecy, if a person takes the time to dig and to find key items written by scientists, enough of a shadow picture develops to allow a person to realize that they already can produce several things the public is unaware of. Many times the articles will discuss only a tiny aspect of a larger process, or will say we have the knowledge to do such and such but the actual doing is years away. And somehow people swallow that we could have the capability to do it, but arent. For instance, in a book that was published in 1979, Robert Gilmore McKinnel, Professor of Genetics and Cell Biology, College of Biological Sciences, University of Minnesota, wrote "It has been reported that mice and some large domestic animals have been cloned. Humans have not. Because the reproductive biology of humans...is similar to that of mice and other mammals, it is likely that humans could be cloned." Some of the men who know what is actually being done, are afraid to tell what they know. However, I do not have neither a professional reputation nor a job to guard. I have never taken any oath of secrecy to any of these organizations of the establishment. I can simply tell you the truth without fear.
Section B. Instructions on how to clone a person.
For those who want the medical description of just one way that cloning of people can be done (and this capability has been around for at least a decade--and much longer secretly.) The idea that we dont have the knowledge to do it is simply a myth for public consumption. Any microbiologist worth anything knows that we have the knowledge and the means--they can only claim that cloning of humans hasnt happened because supposedly no one wants to do it.
A TECHNIQUE--INSTRUCTIONS HOW TO CLONE A HUMAN:
The ovulation and ovaries of the woman can be monitored. Just before natural ovulation, there is an increase of luteinizing hormone which is called the luteinizing hormone surge. This can be detected by either blood or urine samples. The growth of the follicle can be monitored by visualization with ovarian ultrasonography. Ultrasound diagnosis will reveal on which side of the womans ovaries the ripening follicle is found. This procedure will allow people to know when the follicle is ripe for the retrieval of the oocyte.
When the time is appropriate a hollow aspiration needle is inserted into one or several ripe follicles under visual guidance of the laparoscope. The oocyte is removed with some follicular fluid. Experienced laparoscopists have a success rate over 90% in recovering the oocyte. Prior to this, it is likely that the woman will have been given Clomiphene citrate, or this drug used in combination with another drug so that there will be several eggs that can be retrieved at one time.
The oocytes obtained from the ripe ovarian follicles are not fertilized when retrieved, although another process would be to fertilize first, before extracting. If they dont fertilize first, then they can take the harvested oocytes and incubate them in a culture medium for several hours to get maturation. They need maturation because they have been taken from the ovary before ovulation, and are not as mature as spontaneously ovulated ova.
Thawed or fresh semen is washed and centrifuged so that it will be diluted to the proper concentration to fertilize in vitro. The in vitro fertilization is carried out. After some amount of hours, (about 12) both pronuclei are identifiable for enucleation. The enucleation is accomplished with either one of two well-established methods. One method is to surgically enucleate it with a micropipette, another is with a bleb of cytoplasm containing both the male and female pronuclei. Either method has worked fine. These nuclei by the way have been obtained from the inner-cell mass of an early human embryo. This again is a well established practice.
Let us digress slightly and explain the method to obtain the nuclei. The zona pellucida must be removed from a cultured embryo, the trophectoderm separated from the inner cell mass, and then, the cells dissociated with an appropriate enzyme in a calcium-and magnesium-free salt solution. Going back to the cloning process, there are several methods for doing a donor nucleus (obtained from its source using the just mentioned method) with enucleated cytoplasm (obtained from the womans in vitro fertilized ovum). One might be to surgically implant it with a micropipette, another is fusion with an inactivated Sendai virus. Whichever way is considered most viable by those performing this will be used. And then the human nuclear transplant will be cultured until it can be placed into a human foster mother.
When the clone has reached the 8 - to 16 cell stage it will be transferred into the foster mother. If needed, the transfer can be done later, and the clone is simply frozen. When the transfer takes place, the clone is drawn into a fine plastic tube (a catheter) which, then in turn, would be introduced through the cervical canal into the interior of the uterus. --- This is just one process for successfully cloning humans. Other more refined techniques may well be in use.
Section C. The four types of clones that are used by the Illuminati:
This is a person who has been grown from a test tube (called "in vitro") or implanted womb, which has the identical genetic makeup to another person--an identical twin so to speak in terms of genetic makeup. The genetic coding has reproduced, and a new person who is an identical twin is now in existence.
These are "persons" who look everybit as real as a real person, but simulate human beings. Certain tissues extracted from cattle are the starting point. (This is part of the reason for cattle mutilations.) The process is an advancement of a process discovered in the late 1950s. This 1959 experiment was reported in a book in 1968 called The Biological Time Bomb by Gordon Rettray Taylor. Taylor describes the experiment done in France, "They had extracted DNA from the cells of the khaki Cam phells and had injected it into the white Pekins, thinking that just possibly the offspring of the latter might show some character derived from khaki Campbells. To their astonishment the actual ducks they injected began to change. Their white feathers darkened, and their necks began to take on the peculiar curve which is a mark of the khaki Campbell." The scientists working under the auspices of the Rothschilds, (who are directed by Satan himself) developed this process by working at secret breakneck speed. They developed an advanced development of the process they discovered with the DNA chicken experiment. By the late 1970s, synthetic people could be produced by the Illuminati.
This is an "artificial life" form that is created through processes that are totally different than cloning or synthetics. Organic robotoid technology is being made to make exact as possible copies of important people such as Presidents and some of their staff. For instance, the Jimmy Carter who came to Portland a few years ago who I stood two feet away from and examined visually was not the Jimmy Carter that had run for President.
On Easter, 1979 the first robotoid model of Jimmy Carter replaced the man Jimmy Carter. By the time "Carter" was seen by me, they must have been on at least robotoid no. 100. This is why a friend of mine who was recently in Washington D.C. almost bumped into President Clinton jogging. My friend was surprised by the lack of security.
Kaiser Aluminum News which is put out by Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation put out a series of articles to a specialized audience in the 1960s. This material was also published under the book title The Dynamics of Change (Prentice-Hall: Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1967).
Under the title heading "GENETIC MANIPULATION" we read,
"The ability to control the formation of new beings may be one of the most basic developments of the future. Recent discoveries about the nucleonic acids, the basic building blocks of life, have led to the belief that man may some day be able to treat genes in such a way that desired characteristics can be realized..."
Under the heading "MAN-MACHINE SYMBIOSIS" we read,
"...Computers exist which can learn, remember, see, seek goals, reason, walk, sing on key, talk, be irritable, play games, grasp, adapt to an environment and even design improvements in themselves.. .man-like computers may one day contain plasma circulating through a viscera-like envelope, allowing them to be self-healing."
Under the heading "HUMAN ROBOTS" we read,
"...An electronic circuit that imitates two neurons, the cells of the human brain, has been built, and has enabled a robot to deal with some unexpected situations, but the neuron structure was bulky. The brain has billions of neurons, meaning an incredible miniaturization job will be necessary before truly human robots are developed."
As the reader knows since the 1960s when this was written an incredible miniaturization job has been done in computers. What the public knows of that miniaturization is incredible and that is only part of what has actually occurred. In fact, scientists are now able to manipulate DNA to create computers.
A basic thing that is needed to create a computer is material that will consistently change given some type of "signal". This is because the computer works off of base two--or what is simply an on--off switch system, or a 0 or 1 system of numbers. Living biological material is superior to other material for making computers because the heat created by the methods in conventional computers slows the speed. For super-computers to work at great speeds they need to use biological material that will not heat up. This type of miniaturization has already been done. It creates computers far beyond what we are familiar with. Organic robotoids are amazingly humanlike, so humanlike that it is hard for the scientists who have created them to get used to the idea that they are not humans.
Biological computer brains for the robotiods came as a result of research into holograms. If you tear up a conventional photograph you ruin it, but if you tear up the film that produces a hologram, each piece still contains almost all the same image. This is why part of the brain of people can be removed and the brain regain what it had lost. A holographic image of a persons brain is made, and then when the brain of a robotoid is made, the biological computer in its head is caused to form according to the holographic record of a person being copied. Some deviations from the holographic record are needed, because the "person" is a robotoid and not a person. The brain of the robotoid has almost all of the correct memory of the person reproduced, but the robotoid brain is really a computer made from biological material which is programmed, it is not a human brain.
First, "Clinton" has the energy to jog because it may well be a robotoid, and second thing, an assassination of a robotoid is not so serious. These robotoids have a biological computer-brain that is programmed. They can think in the sense a computer thinks, but secret advances in understanding the human brain, have allowed the makers of organic robotoids to have the memory of a person at a given point in time transferred to an organic robotoid. The key then for making what appears to be a clone--but they are not a real clone--is to capture the person to be copied and make a holographic copy of the brain memory and transfer that to the robotoid.
How the memory of a person is transferred for the organic robotoids.
In order to successfully make human organic robotoids--in a sense to make bionic robots--the ability to simulate the personality of the person being copied was necessary. The only viable solution was to learn how the brain coded memory and duplicate that process. The brain is entering into its memory about 10 million bits of information a second. The incredible storage capability of the human brain which weighs on the average 3.25 lbs in human males and 2.9 lbs in human females is incredible. The brain can easily store 100 million billion bits of information. Its no wonder we dont use it all.
All the computers in the world put together do not compare with one intelligent persons brain. Numerous tests and experiments from many different angles all showed investigators that the brain stored information as a hologram. The place in the brain where a memory is stored isnt in just one location. Memories are stored in synapses in sequence, but they are stored in a holographic method. From what I understand, rhythmic pulses radiate from a small area of the brain like a stone creates ripples in a pond. Waves go through the cerebrum, in the way that laser light is used to create a hologram. Different frequencies are used by the brain and different neuron impulses are used to reference (tag) the different details. These tags are the brains own codes or reference standards for cataloging information. The brain has to be able to access the encoder/decoder (holographic code standards) for a particular piece of information to be retrieve for the conscious.
Brain injuries can destroy one decoder, and leave other decoders for a memory intact. When a multiple (a person with MPD/DID) is created layers and layers of amnesia walls (actual walls) are built into the brain, and then specific codes are created which cause the mind to bring these compartments of memory to the surface. Each compartment is built into an alter (personality) or a functioning part of the System (built somewhat like a series of computers). Where a normal person may be aware of a conscious and a somewhat subconscious track running simultaneously, the mind of a multiple runs several tracks at once.
On a local level within the brain, researchers have called a memories storage unit an engram. Polypeptidenucleic acid holds a piece of information, such as a trauma memory. Proteins and other substances are involved in the memory process. How a person eats can influence their mental abilities. But it must be born in mind that a memory is retained holographically in countless locations in the memory storage area of the brain, just as the ripples of a stone dropped into water flow throughout an entire pond. The mind will have a number of reference points from which a particular memory can be decoded. The information that is stored in the brain is both dynamic and holographic. It is not stored like a book. If the dynamic impulses of the brain cease, so do the memories. Freezing and reviving a human brain will serve to erase its memory.
I will try to explain things in clear terms if the reader will bear with me. The reason that we recogmze objects so quickly is that the brain performs what is similar to what researchers call a Fourier transfer. Messages are transmitted through Fourier-transform messages. What is a Fourier-transform message? A Fourier transform is a mathematical method where a complex wave, or a complex pattern is broken down and converted into a basically longer, but precise signal of simpler frequencies. In other words a squiggly line is hard to communicate, but via the Fourier transform it becomes a string of numbers which is quite easy to transmit. In other words, a complex squiggly line and a straight line after the conversion are both just as easy to record. The brain stores information in a form similar to a Fourier transform, so that when it must look for similar patterns, it can quickly overlook everything but another identical Fourier transform pattern. A mental comparison is done so quick that it gives the ability to the brain to "instantly" recognize people who one hasnt seen for years. The Holograms of memory that the brain makes are transmitted through Fourier-transform messages. Holograms are hard to destroy, for each piece contains the whole. Rip a holograph in half and you still have the same picture. Rip it in half again and the same picture remains. After a great many cuts in half the holograph begins to get a little fuzzy, as it loses some of its detail, but the entire picture is still there. That is why memories begin to get somewhat fuzzy, because we are only puffing up a small piece of brain that recorded the memory. However, if we can pull up more of the holographic image of the memory we get a more distinct detailed picture.
It was secret research into holograms that gave Illuminati scientists the ability to copy the memory of an entire brain. A holographic image is made of the hosts brain and that is transferred into the biological matter functioning as a brain of the robotoid. Since the body and brain of the robotoid are not identical to the original person being copied, adjustments have to be taught and programmed into the mind of the robotoid. The entire process is sophisticated, but then so are many manufacturing processes today.
There is an ongoing program to find look alikes for prominent people, as well as a program to create secret identical twins (which are separated at birth and never see each other).
George Bushs double was promiscuous, while George Bush is a pedophile. His double was living in France after Bush was no longer President. By the use of doubles, (or one of the synthetics or organic robotoids) the elite are able to sneak away and perform satanic rituals. On certain occasions, if Clinton or Bush only needed to do low level tasks in front of the public, they could have their double substitute for them. The Illuminati working with several organizations has had a look alike operation where doubles of certain key people are found and then used.
In the book Desert Shield and The New World Order pub. by Northpoint Tactical Teams, Topton, NC, if you look on page 32 you will see a picture of the original FDR who had a mole over his eyes and then you will a see a picture of the double of Roosevelt who they used, who had no mole and had different ear lobes. Roosevelt may have died prior to when it was actually announced.
Over the years I have seen numerous photos exposing either the Robotoids or the doubles that they use. This authors previous S' 93 article had some pictures about the dead Pope Paul VI, who my Be Wise As Serpents book said was murdered. This recent Pope was replaced with a double who had had plastic surgery. As a double gets older the plastic surgery will not look as convincing, because time changes people differently. One ex-Catholic said the whole thing sounded like science fiction. It does sound far out at first, but the evidence is there for people to see. For myself, the ex-Illuminati have told me about the doubles program. From what I understand the double or look-alike program has been more successful than the robotoids and synthetics. The reason is that people live longer and are more dependable in some ways. The project to find look alikes for prominent people has been very successful. Plastic surgery has also been done to help touch up the doubles.
Section D. Secret cloning sites (See also Appendix B, where D.U.M. bases are listed.)
Ada, Oklahomas underground facility is being used to clone humans. The other cloning facilities are turning out weird creatures. Due to the processes involved they give off lots of gamma radiation (Gamma is at the far end of the electromagnetic wave spectrum--it is even a longer wave than ultraviolet). Because they give off Gamma radiation, these facilities must be deep underground. The cloning is done at level 7. The average depth (according to one of the men who built these Deep Underground Facilities - D.U.M.) is 5,600.
The secret government has been building them no stop since W.W. II. I personally have only been in an underground city in Oahu, HA, but I have spoken to others who are wanting to save humanity and stop the NWO, and these witnesses know a lot about the underground facilities.
One of the men who betrayed the human race and helped with the cloning was Austrian born Simon Wiesenthal. Simon Wiesenthal, was a US intelligence agent with a photographic memory (perhaps a scarred brain stem). Wiesenthal seriously hunted Nazis that were not on the CIAs payroll or CIA associated groups. Simon Wiesenthal, under the disguise of being a great Nazi hunter, actually assisted protecting the FBIs and the CIAs agents who were Nazi criminals. Wiesenthal tried to stop CBS from doing a show exposing the FBI-Nazi connection.
Jewish Intelligence (the Moussad) knew all about the hundreds if not thousands of Nazi War criminals that worked for American Intelligence and the FBI, but never went public about it. Instead they occasionally used the information as leverage against American intelligence. One of the code no.s for Simon Wiesenthal given by a Monarch slave was something like 063 097. If someone else knows the full and correct code for him, go ahead and share it.
Unholy Trinity is a book written about how the Vatican, the US State Department, and MI-6 smuggled Nazis out of Germany at the end of WW II. An entire book could be written about the thousands of die hard Nazis who have been working for American intelligence, however Simon Wiesenthals name is mentioned here because he helped start the cloning for the worst elements of the NWO.
OREGONS UNDERGROUND SECRET CLONING FACILITY
In at least one of my newsletters, the secret cloning facility at Bull Run near Mt. Hood, OR was discussed. Bull Run is a large tract of forested land with some water reservoirs/lakes that is set up to help provide water for the Portland Metro area. My house on Lincoln St. was also near 8 reservoirs that were built at nearby Mt. Tabor. These reservoirs at Mt. Tabor were for Portland drinking water too. The Mt. Tabor reservoirs have simple single fences on their perimeter, and people are able to throw garbage into these reservoirs if they want to be nasty. However, the Bull Run water supply which is very isolated is extremely well protected. It is rare that people would stray up into the area anyway. People are told that this large tract of land is simply for Portlands water supply, and yet several years ago a Patriot military unit reconned the area after getting info from me. They were able to identify 3 strongly guarded rings of defense at the Bull Run reservoir. The area has lots of electronic surveillance, etc. It is either the most valuable water on Gods green earth, or there is something else in the vicinity of Larch Mountain (south of the famous Multnomah Falls which sit on I-84)--something besides a water reservoir. Of course, those in the know, know that its an underground facility which the CIA use. Its not an accident Tektronics here in the Portland area does work/research with holograms.
FURTHER INVESTIGATIONS AT DULCES UNDERGROUND CLONING FACILITY
My article about Dulce [which I investigated in person on foot] also sparked a small group of dedicated Christians to try to retrace my steps and find the Dulce facility. They reported back to me that they found nothing and that the reservation police and the local people claimed theyd never even heard of any underground facility. All I can say is that, doesnt that strike you as fishy that all kinds of people have been up in that area looking for the site, interviewing the Jicarilla Apaches that live in the area for years, talking about Dulce over Art Bells Radio show, etc. and locals have never heard anything about it?? At the very least they should know that other people looked for the site. The reservation and town of Dulce, NM have a small population. There is little that everyone doesnt know about what goes on in the area, and yet they are surprised by the topic of an underground facility? The whole thing smells like the key people in the area have been convinced to keep their mouths shut & pretend they know nothing.
My comments: sometimes when youre looking for a rat, youll smell it before you see it. According to someone who has worked in the Dulce Underground Facility the openings on the north and SW face (Aztec Cliffs) are still in use. Actually the cliff that has a face that looks like an Aztec on Mt. Archuleta has been cemented shut because hikers kept straying into the area. A deep needle detector which could detect metal or magnetism deep down could reveal the Dulce Underground Facility--but people who get this close often disappear.
This Appendix covers 4 different methods that have been used to make copies of people, these were cloning, creating synthetic duplicates, creating organic robotoids, and finding look alike doubles. [Programs for all four of these methods have had almost unlimited funding by the intelligence/Illuminati elite.]
Next, the basic principles for creating a synthetic human were covered. Synthetic humans were in some ways found to be superior to the robotoids that were created. The first few years of robotoids were fraught with problems. [Since my inside information is somewhat dated, I cannot give readers the status of current robotoid abilities, however, I believe from what Ive seen that the program continues.]
The synthetics were people who had their genes altered to look more like the person they were to copy. The robotoids were the formation of new beings that look human but are actually bionic robots. Their memories were created by using living "brain tissue" which is some type of programmable living biological matter, and programming this material as a sophisticated computer. In order to get the memory of the person being copied, a holographic image of the persons brain is made and transferred to the robotoid. Because the robotoid "brain" is not functioning like a human (although the end result is nearly identical so that viewers have to know what differences to look for), there are of course some adjustments that have to be made after the holographic image of the host is transferred to the living biological matter that will function as the brain of the robotoid. Lord Willing, this author may write some more on this topic later. The ability of the Illuminati to copy people using the 4 methods listed above, are not going to be the deciding factor in their moves to control the world, but it does give them a great deal of flexibility in their operations. This author frequently reflects on the words of the Illuminati Grand Master who told Cisco, who was then a child, while touring a cloning facility, "Never, never think you are seeing who you think you are seeing.
As this authors reflects back on whats gone into this first part, he cant help thinking about how God will reveal all things that are secret. (See Dan, 2:22 and other verses). The prophet Daniel called him the revealer of secrets." The secrets which are revealed in this book are minuscule compared to what God Almighty will reveal in His day. And as this author reflects back he realizes that there is so much more that could be said.
This author has neglected to get my information about the Clintons into this. For instance, this author interviewed a woman who went to school with Hillary, and two of Hillarys mind-control victims. Our establishment media have neglected to tell the American people about Bill Clintons roots & ties in Hot Springs, Ark.
Hot Springs is a city that has forty-seven thermal springs which have brought the jet set from all over the world. The mafia syndicate & their nightclubs made Hot Springs a hot bed of vice, gambling, prostitution. During the 1920s the territory so popular with organized crime, that they classified the territory "neutral ground" like they did Hollywood. In the early 1960s, Hot Springs had the largest illegal gambling operations in the entire U.S. Billys uncle Roy was a politician in Arkansass legislature connected to all this mess. And Bill Clintons uncle Raymond Clinton, who had a Buick dealership, was tied to all this corruption.
Bill & his brother Rogers cocaine habits are well known by those familiar with them, as well as their wild parties at the Coachmans Inn, Little Rock, Ark. What are not known are Hillary & Bills membership in the secret Illuminati.
And for some reason some of their more intimate associates are also not known, such as Charles "Chip" Whitmore, a Satanist & programmer. Chip & Bill have met often on a weekly basis over the years. This continues, for instance when Bill was in England so was Chip, when Bill went to Florida so did Chip. Chip played drums with mind-control programmer Jerry Lee Lewis. He was also a friend of Jack Ruby. (Its a small world at the top of corruption.) Chip owns Cash McCools Tavern. He is 56, glasses for his poor eyesight, has good hearing, and has a filthy mouth. He changes the car he owns & drives every 3-5 months. Chip had a programmed girl murder a man, and then the Network got him off of his murder charges. Chips familys Villa Mare in Little Rock was pictured in the opening shots of Designing Women.
Chip Whitm ore has been in charge of assassinations in his area, and controls the local law enforcement in Arkansas. Jack Stevens, said to be the largest investment banker in Little Rock, is CIA/part of the Network. He exchanged information with Chip via their mutual black cleaning lady. Further, Whitmore & Stevens tie in with a string of corruption that extends into the Assembly of God churches & other parts of Churchianity.
Over Chip is a Dr. Paul Palmer. The media just gives us glimpses of the depth of occult corruption. For instance, Insight magazine Feb. 26, 96, page 48, in an article by Suzanne Fields had a photo of Hillarys backside wearing what appeared to be a golden dragon on her black coat when she went to court to talk about the Rose Law Firm billing records. She has sometimes been called the Dragon lady for good reasons. Will todays modern equivalents to shamans, our psychiatric community help protect us from murderers like Chip Whitmore? Not likely.
The Biographical Directory of Fellows and Members of the American Psychiatric Association reveals that in 1957 there were 7,104 American members in the American Psychiatric Association. Of those 7,104, a total of 1,253 had moved to America from Germany and Eastern Europe. This helps us understand the enormous influence Operation Paperclip had on America. Operation Paperclip was the CIAs project to smuggle Nazi criminals into our nation, some of which have now made Penns campus infamous. No wonder the False Memory Spindrome got started at Pennsylvania University. We were warned by a psychiatrist in a Weekly World News story of Jan. 9, 1996 about a strange new sleeping disorder where people die after seeing a hooded robe figure chase them. This new "Deadly Dream Syndrome" sounds strongly like mind-control. Perhaps there is no way to have given the readers anything but a drop in the bucket.
Some of the details that got left out on the way include:
the Seventh-Day Adventist churchs secret cooperation with the government to supply young men (1,500) for government experiments called Operation Whitecoat;
how the Dept. of Energy set up hotlines for victims of radiation experiments, in other words the fox is in control of where the victim goes for help;
Peter A. Petito, "Mr. Intelligence" in Italy, and his connections to the Network;
William Randolph Hearsts costume parties and his half dozen homes like San Simeon;
Torrance, CAs Penthouses and Disneys mind-control;
the Masonic peace sign of uplifted hands with wrists crossed in the film 1984;
the movie Army of Darkness with its mirror image programming, "London Bridges falling down" programming ditty, etc.;
how FEMA works with the 6th Army that Aquino was part of, how Voodooism uses Waterfalls for healing such as at Sardo, Haiti;
how Mothers of Darkness alters are trained to love a marble, fed the marble, care for it, and then to shatter it with a hammer until its fine like salt and then to repeat the process and only split the marble but not crush it as part of their training to program;
how a certain torture is done to make the victim think they have a butterfly as a head with the head of the butterfly in their third eye area;
how scribbling is used to anchor programming in child victims;
programmed soul-ties to aliens;
Mr. Greenjeans (of Capt. Kangaroo) talk of Mr. Moon & how it was used for programming;
the blood sacrifices under the Temple Mount on March 13th this year;
the Masonic corruption in Arcadia, FL and the G. Pierce Wood Memorial Hospital;
how secret meetings of the CIA have studied how UFOs could be used as "clever hostile propaganda" trick to take advantage of the populaces gullibility;
how Mengeles family never claimed his bones--they knew they werent the real ones, and how the International Red Cross gave him an I.D.S. to travel with; South Africas occult Shu Shung Palace... maybe someone else will pick up where this author has left off, the mind-control is all around us!
[back to Synthetic Life - Robotoids, Parasites and Artificial Humans]
