# Depopulation of a Planet  - Part 3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_depopu03.htm

Part III
No Easy Answers! 11/28/95
Pope John Paul II said,
"The common outcry, which is justly made on behalf of human rights - for example, the right to health, to home, to work, to family, to culture - is false and illusory if the right to life, the most basic and fundamental right and the condition for all other personal rights, is not defended with maximum determination." [Christifidelis laici. no. 38].
"The common outcry, which is justly made on behalf of human rights - for example, the right to health, to home, to work, to family, to culture - is false and illusory if the right to life, the most basic and fundamental right and the condition for all other personal rights, is not defended with maximum determination."
[Christifidelis laici. no. 38].
In 1974, Mankind At The Turning Point - The Second Report To The Club Of Rome was published.
Written by Mihajlo Besarvic and Eduard Pestel, it says, in part [quoting:]
Suddenly - virtually overnight when measured on a historical scale - mankind finds itself confronted by a multitude of unprecedented crises: the population crisis, the environmental crisis, the world food crisis, the energy crisis, the raw material crisis, to name just a few. New crises appear while the old ones linger on with the effects spreading to every corner of the Earth until they appear in point of fact as global, worldwide, crises. Attempts at solving any one of these in isolation has proven to be temporary and at the expense of others; to ease the shortage of energy or raw materials by measures which worsen the condition of the environment means, actually, to solve nothing at all. Real solutions are apparently interdependent; collectively, the whole multitude of crises appears to constitute a single global crisis-syndrome of world development. The intensity of the crisis in global world development and the elusiveness of effective measures to bring about a solution challenge premises that have long been most fundamental in guiding the evolution of human society. Although these premises have paved the way for human progress in the past, they have also, finally, led to the present conditions. Mankind, therefore, appears to be at a turning point: to continue on the old road - that is, to follow the traditional route, unchallenged, into the future - or to start on a new path. [End quoting.]
Suddenly - virtually overnight when measured on a historical scale - mankind finds itself confronted by a multitude of unprecedented crises: the population crisis, the environmental crisis, the world food crisis, the energy crisis, the raw material crisis, to name just a few. New crises appear while the old ones linger on with the effects spreading to every corner of the Earth until they appear in point of fact as global, worldwide, crises.
Attempts at solving any one of these in isolation has proven to be temporary and at the expense of others; to ease the shortage of energy or raw materials by measures which worsen the condition of the environment means, actually, to solve nothing at all. Real solutions are apparently interdependent; collectively, the whole multitude of crises appears to constitute a single global crisis-syndrome of world development. The intensity of the crisis in global world development and the elusiveness of effective measures to bring about a solution challenge premises that have long been most fundamental in guiding the evolution of human society. Although these premises have paved the way for human progress in the past, they have also, finally, led to the present conditions.
Mankind, therefore, appears to be at a turning point: to continue on the old road - that is, to follow the traditional route, unchallenged, into the future - or to start on a new path.
[End quoting.]
Jumping several paragraphs ahead,
"On certain growth issues there would seem to exist universal agreement. Consider, for example, the issue of population growth. Few would quarrel with the position that the global population cannot and should not be permitted to grow unchecked forever. That the population must level off some time, i.e., that population growth should stop, is the view gaining universal acceptance."
Continuing, [quoting:]
Mans dependency on Nature goes very deep indeed; his use and misuse of resources is only part of the picture. As man has become the dominant force in the shaping of life-systems on the Earth, his ascent has been accompanied by a reduction of the biological diversity in Nature. Species not perceived to be in the service of man have been systematically reduced in number or eliminated. Should this trend continue, Earth will soon be inhabited by a diminished number of species. Today we understand much better than our ancestors that the existence of all life on Earth - our own included - depends on the stability of the ecological system. An Earth with less diverse inhabitants might not continue to possess the stability essential for adaptation and survival. And if our ecosystem breaks down - even if only temporarily - the effect on mankind will be calamitous. The ultimate irony confronting technological man may well reside in the fact that Natures most potent threats to human welfare are not her destructive power - earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes - but the fragility of the web of life, the delicacy of those skeins which bind species to species and which comprise the dynamic bonds which relate to animate and inanimate realms so inextricably in the processes of life. [End quoting.]
Mans dependency on Nature goes very deep indeed; his use and misuse of resources is only part of the picture.
As man has become the dominant force in the shaping of life-systems on the Earth, his ascent has been accompanied by a reduction of the biological diversity in Nature. Species not perceived to be in the service of man have been systematically reduced in number or eliminated. Should this trend continue, Earth will soon be inhabited by a diminished number of species.
Today we understand much better than our ancestors that the existence of all life on Earth - our own included - depends on the stability of the ecological system. An Earth with less diverse inhabitants might not continue to possess the stability essential for adaptation and survival. And if our ecosystem breaks down - even if only temporarily - the effect on mankind will be calamitous.
The ultimate irony confronting technological man may well reside in the fact that Natures most potent threats to human welfare are not her destructive power - earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes - but the fragility of the web of life, the delicacy of those skeins which bind species to species and which comprise the dynamic bonds which relate to animate and inanimate realms so inextricably in the processes of life. [End quoting.]
BRIEF ON MANS INTERFERENCE IN NATURE
Continuing with Mankind At A Turning Point, [quoting:]
Being "but a part of nature," man has always affected and has always been affected by his environment. However, due to the disproportionate increase in numbers and due to increased sophistication in mans intervention in natural processes, the interference of man is taking on a completely new dimension with unpredictable and potentially catastrophic consequences; this is beginning to cause concern from an unsuspected source: the scientists who originated and developed such techniques of intervention. A good example is the most recent appeal by a group of micro-biologists to the world scientific community at large to refrain from conducting the experiments that involved inserting into bacteria the genes which are resistant to antibiotics or the genes of viruses. [Remember, this was written in 1974.] The potential danger to which the appeal specifically addresses itself is due to the fact that the bacteria often used in scientific experiments of this kind is a common inhabitant in the human intestine. A prospect of such a resistant bacteria escaping and infecting the population must be taken into account; it implies the possibility of loosing new plagues upon the world. The event was properly hailed by the scientists themselves as a historical landmark of restraint to conduct experiments purely for the sake of scientific curiosity. It represents a reversal of the cherished tradition that nothing should interfere with the sciences search for truth. However, even if the experiments in which new, resistant bacteria are created are foolproof, there exists a real danger in: the potential of using such a new technique for biological warfare; the possibility of such experiments being conducted outside of a properly controlled laboratory. Although the use of this less-than-a-year-old technique is still in the hands of experts, it will be a "high school project within a few years." The solemn high-level warnings against conducting such experiments whose consequences cannot be predicted could hardly be considered as a sufficient deterrent then. But there are many others, even if considered less spectacular, examples of unknown and potentially harmful consequences of mans intervention in nature.
Being "but a part of nature," man has always affected and has always been affected by his environment. However, due to the disproportionate increase in numbers and due to increased sophistication in mans intervention in natural processes, the interference of man is taking on a completely new dimension with unpredictable and potentially catastrophic consequences; this is beginning to cause concern from an unsuspected source: the scientists who originated and developed such techniques of intervention.
A good example is the most recent appeal by a group of micro-biologists to the world scientific community at large to refrain from conducting the experiments that involved inserting into bacteria the genes which are resistant to antibiotics or the genes of viruses. [Remember, this was written in 1974.] The potential danger to which the appeal specifically addresses itself is due to the fact that the bacteria often used in scientific experiments of this kind is a common inhabitant in the human intestine.
A prospect of such a resistant bacteria escaping and infecting the population must be taken into account; it implies the possibility of loosing new plagues upon the world. The event was properly hailed by the scientists themselves as a historical landmark of restraint to conduct experiments purely for the sake of scientific curiosity. It represents a reversal of the cherished tradition that nothing should interfere with the sciences search for truth.
However, even if the experiments in which new, resistant bacteria are created are foolproof, there exists a real danger in:
the potential of using such a new technique for biological warfare; the possibility of such experiments being conducted outside of a properly controlled laboratory.
the potential of using such a new technique for biological warfare;
the possibility of such experiments being conducted outside of a properly controlled laboratory.
Although the use of this less-than-a-year-old technique is still in the hands of experts, it will be a "high school project within a few years."
The solemn high-level warnings against conducting such experiments whose consequences cannot be predicted could hardly be considered as a sufficient deterrent then. But there are many others, even if considered less spectacular, examples of unknown and potentially harmful consequences of mans intervention in nature.
FOOD CRISIS
Continuing from Mankind At The Turning Point,
"The most precious of all resources is food. Given even the most optimistic projections for population growth during the next fifty years, the worldwide demand for this resource will increase several fold. But to grasp the seriousness of the food problem and to comprehend the strain the demand for food will impose on the world system, one does not have to look into the future at all: the situation is already critical."
Further into the document,
Our computer analysis, pregnant with optimism, shows clearly that the food crisis in South Asia will worsen. In spite of all the advancements assumed, the availability of fertilizer and land assumed, the lack of intervening disaster assumed, the protein deficit will continuously increase; by the year 2025 it will be up to 50 million tons annually. Such deficits could never be closed by imports: to pay for that quantity of imports, South Asia would have to spend one third of its total economic output, and three times what it earns from exports. But even if South Asia had that kind of money, the physical problems of handling those quantities of food would be incredible. In one year the region would then have to import 500 million tons of grain - twice as much as the total tonnage of all goods now being shipped overseas from the United States. And that is assuming that that quantity of grain would be grown for export elsewhere - 500 million tons, after all, is larger than the total grain production of the entire Developed World. Moreover, these quantities would have to be delivered every year, in ever increasing amounts, without end. In sum, it would be impossible.But what would happen if those imports were not available? That question forms the basis of our second, or "tragic ", scenario. All of our optimistic assumptions have remained, except that we assume that importation of grain will be part of the picture. The catastrophe would start in the early 1980s and peak around 2010: deaths related to the food shortage would be double the normal death rate. Thereafter, the death rate will decline, but only because the earlier deaths reduced the birth rate for a later generation. Or, to put is more cruelly but simply, the people who would be having babies died when they were babies. The number of food-related deaths in the fifty-year period ending in 2025 would be, in the age of 0-15 group alone, about 500 million children. [End quoting.]
Our computer analysis, pregnant with optimism, shows clearly that the food crisis in South Asia will worsen. In spite of all the advancements assumed, the availability of fertilizer and land assumed, the lack of intervening disaster assumed, the protein deficit will continuously increase; by the year 2025 it will be up to 50 million tons annually. Such deficits could never be closed by imports: to pay for that quantity of imports, South Asia would have to spend one third of its total economic output, and three times what it earns from exports.
But even if South Asia had that kind of money, the physical problems of handling those quantities of food would be incredible. In one year the region would then have to import 500 million tons of grain - twice as much as the total tonnage of all goods now being shipped overseas from the United States. And that is assuming that that quantity of grain would be grown for export elsewhere - 500 million tons, after all, is larger than the total grain production of the entire Developed World. Moreover, these quantities would have to be delivered every year, in ever increasing amounts, without end. In sum, it would be impossible.But what would happen if those imports were not available? That question forms the basis of our second, or "tragic ", scenario. All of our optimistic assumptions have remained, except that we assume that importation of grain will be part of the picture. The catastrophe would start in the early 1980s and peak around 2010: deaths related to the food shortage would be double the normal death rate.
Thereafter, the death rate will decline, but only because the earlier deaths reduced the birth rate for a later generation. Or, to put is more cruelly but simply, the people who would be having babies died when they were babies. The number of food-related deaths in the fifty-year period ending in 2025 would be, in the age of 0-15 group alone, about 500 million children.
In the November 1995 newsletter Forecast Highlights, Larry Acker writes,
"Where is the wheat? Answer: Some of the worlds wheat crop in 1995 was damaged or destroyed by bad weather, diseases, or insects. China needs wheat due to drought that lasted from October 1994 to present. The Soviets wheat crop shrank significantly due to drought and insects. Australias wheat burned up in a severe drought. Canadas crop was damaged by drought and the Orange Blossom Midge (an insect). Much of Europes crop drowned out last February and the rest burned up in the drought 6 months later. Finally, Argentinas winter crop went 120 days with no water - which all but ruined the 1995 crop."Whos left that has any wheat? Answer: the US. Even the US crop had problems, and much of the Hard Red Winter wheat belt centered in Kansas is quite dry as this is being written. Different varieties of wheat had problems in 1995 and most saw some reduction in total yields. The US is the only country that has sizable quantities of wheat still available for sale. There is more demand for wheat worldwide than the US has wheat to fill. An explosion is about to happen in the trading pits and some vicious events may take place before this is over. Keep in eye on China; they need lots of wheat and theyll have to get most of it from the US if they want it."
"Where is the wheat?
Answer: Some of the worlds wheat crop in 1995 was damaged or destroyed by bad weather, diseases, or insects. China needs wheat due to drought that lasted from October 1994 to present. The Soviets wheat crop shrank significantly due to drought and insects. Australias wheat burned up in a severe drought. Canadas crop was damaged by drought and the Orange Blossom Midge (an insect). Much of Europes crop drowned out last February and the rest burned up in the drought 6 months later. Finally, Argentinas winter crop went 120 days with no water - which all but ruined the 1995 crop."Whos left that has any wheat?
Answer: the US. Even the US crop had problems, and much of the Hard Red Winter wheat belt centered in Kansas is quite dry as this is being written. Different varieties of wheat had problems in 1995 and most saw some reduction in total yields. The US is the only country that has sizable quantities of wheat still available for sale. There is more demand for wheat worldwide than the US has wheat to fill. An explosion is about to happen in the trading pits and some vicious events may take place before this is over. Keep in eye on China; they need lots of wheat and theyll have to get most of it from the US if they want it."
Returning to Mankind At The Turning Point,
"In summary, the only feasible solution to the world food situation requires: A global approach to the problem; Investment aid rather than commodity aid, except for food; A balanced economic development for all regions; An effective population policy; Worldwide diversification of industry, leading to a truly global economic system. "Only a proper combination of these measures can lead to a solution. Omission of any one measure will surely lead to disaster. But the strains on the global food production capacity would be lessened if the eating habits in the affluent part of the world would change, becoming less wasteful."
"In summary, the only feasible solution to the world food situation requires:
A global approach to the problem; Investment aid rather than commodity aid, except for food; A balanced economic development for all regions; An effective population policy; Worldwide diversification of industry, leading to a truly global economic system.
A global approach to the problem;
Investment aid rather than commodity aid, except for food;
A balanced economic development for all regions;
An effective population policy;
Worldwide diversification of industry, leading to a truly global economic system.
"Only a proper combination of these measures can lead to a solution. Omission of any one measure will surely lead to disaster. But the strains on the global food production capacity would be lessened if the eating habits in the affluent part of the world would change, becoming less wasteful."
Mankind At The Turning Point concludes with the following commentary. [Quoting:]
We most warmly welcome this report by Mihajlo Mesarovic and Eduard Pestel to The Club of Rome. It marks an important new step toward understanding the global natural and human systems within which we live. And it appears as a book for wide distribution at an opportune time. Under the impact of worsening world situations, public opinion has greatly matured in the last few years. However, decision-makers in every country and the world establishment generally, although forced to face up to the stark realities of our age, are still reluctant to renovate their thinking and modes of action. The Mesarovic-Pestel work will confront them with a compelling frame of references that can hardly be ignored, offering them at the same time a new, potentially powerful tool to test out the validity or futility of their views and their policies in the real world framework.
We most warmly welcome this report by Mihajlo Mesarovic and Eduard Pestel to The Club of Rome. It marks an important new step toward understanding the global natural and human systems within which we live. And it appears as a book for wide distribution at an opportune time. Under the impact of worsening world situations, public opinion has greatly matured in the last few years.
However, decision-makers in every country and the world establishment generally, although forced to face up to the stark realities of our age, are still reluctant to renovate their thinking and modes of action. The Mesarovic-Pestel work will confront them with a compelling frame of references that can hardly be ignored, offering them at the same time a new, potentially powerful tool to test out the validity or futility of their views and their policies in the real world framework.
And, continuing,
Results to date, however, are already very important. The authors have concentrated on several clusters of problems which, if not squarely met, can, alone, provoke unimaginable disasters. Backed by this intensive research and study, certain basic conclusions have been reached. They confirm earlier warnings of The Club of Rome. Two of them should be quoted here: No fundamental redressment of the world conditions and human prospects is possible except by worldwide cooperation in a global context and with long views. The costs, not only in economic and political terms, of the world conditions and human prospects is possible except by worldwide cooperation in a global context and with long views. The costs, not only in economic and political terms, but in human suffering as well, which will result from delay in taking early decisions, are simply monstrous.How can a true world community emerge, or even our present human society survive when it is ridden by profound and intolerable injustices, overpopulation and mega-famines, while it is crippled by energy and materials shortages, and eaten up by inflation? What explosions or breakdowns will occur, and where and when, now that nuclear war technology and civil violence are outrunning the pace of political wisdom and stability?The odds seem against man. Yet we are moderately hopeful. The winds of change have begun to blow. A keen and anxious awareness is evolving to suggest that fundamental changes will have to take place in the world order and its power structures, in the distribution of wealth and income, in our own outlook and behavior. Perhaps only a new and enlightened humanism can permit mankind to negotiate this transition without irreparable lacerations.In the UN, for example, new concepts such as that of "world collective economic security" as a necessary correlative to political security, and an innovative "charter of duties and rights" of members states is under consideration. In April 1974, a special session of the Assembly issued a declaration on the establishment of a "new international economic order." And the UN world conferences - first on man and his environment, followed by studies on population, food, and the law of the seas, with planned sessions on energy and materials, human settlements, etc. - address themselves to global problems and global solutions.These are the ferments of an inevitable revolution in international relations; they herald in a different management of the human society. Last February in Salzburg The Club of Rome convened a meeting of senior statesmen from different countries and cultures to discuss global problems and long-term alternatives for human society. The concluding statement interpreted the meeting as unequivocally indicating that "a new spirit of active solidarity and cooperation" among all peoples and nations - called the Spirit of Salzburg - is indispensable for mankind to face the challenge of our time.
Results to date, however, are already very important. The authors have concentrated on several clusters of problems which, if not squarely met, can, alone, provoke unimaginable disasters. Backed by this intensive research and study, certain basic conclusions have been reached. They confirm earlier warnings of The Club of Rome.
Two of them should be quoted here:
No fundamental redressment of the world conditions and human prospects is possible except by worldwide cooperation in a global context and with long views.
The costs, not only in economic and political terms, of the world conditions and human prospects is possible except by worldwide cooperation in a global context and with long views.
The costs, not only in economic and political terms, but in human suffering as well, which will result from delay in taking early decisions, are simply monstrous.How can a true world community emerge, or even our present human society survive when it is ridden by profound and intolerable injustices, overpopulation and mega-famines, while it is crippled by energy and materials shortages, and eaten up by inflation? What explosions or breakdowns will occur, and where and when, now that nuclear war technology and civil violence are outrunning the pace of political wisdom and stability?The odds seem against man. Yet we are moderately hopeful. The winds of change have begun to blow. A keen and anxious awareness is evolving to suggest that fundamental changes will have to take place in the world order and its power structures, in the distribution of wealth and income, in our own outlook and behavior. Perhaps only a new and enlightened humanism can permit mankind to negotiate this transition without irreparable lacerations.In the UN, for example, new concepts such as that of "world collective economic security" as a necessary correlative to political security, and an innovative "charter of duties and rights" of members states is under consideration. In April 1974, a special session of the Assembly issued a declaration on the establishment of a "new international economic order." And the UN world conferences - first on man and his environment, followed by studies on population, food, and the law of the seas, with planned sessions on energy and materials, human settlements, etc. - address themselves to global problems and global solutions.These are the ferments of an inevitable revolution in international relations; they herald in a different management of the human society. Last February in Salzburg The Club of Rome convened a meeting of senior statesmen from different countries and cultures to discuss global problems and long-term alternatives for human society. The concluding statement interpreted the meeting as unequivocally indicating that "a new spirit of active solidarity and cooperation" among all peoples and nations - called the Spirit of Salzburg - is indispensable for mankind to face the challenge of our time.
COMMITTEE OF 300
In Dr. John Colemans comprehensive work, Conspirators Hierarchy - The Story Of The Committee Of 300, he writes:
The Committee of 300 had already abrogated the decisions of life and death unto itself, and Peccei knew it. He had previously so indicated in his book Limits Of Growth. Peccei completely dismissed industrial and agricultural progress and in its place demanded that the world come under one coordinating council, to wit, the Club of Rome and its NATO institutions, in a One World Government. Natural resources would have to be allocated under the auspices of global planning. Nation states could either accept Club of Rome domination or else survive by the law of the jungle and fight to survive. In its first "test case," Meadows and Forrestor planned the 1973 Arab-Israeli War on behalf of the RIIA to sharply bring home to the world that natural resources like petroleum would in the future come under global planners control, meaning of course, under the control of the Committee of 300.Tavistock Institute called for a consultation with Peccei to which McGeorge Bundy, Homer Perlmutter and Dr. Alexander King were invited. From London Peccei traveled to the White House where he met with the President and his cabinet, followed by a visit to the State Department where he conferred with the Secretary of State, the State Departments intelligence service and States Policy Planning Council. Thus, from the very beginning, the United States government was fully aware of the Committee of 300s plans for this country. That should answer the often asked question, "Why would our government allow the Club of Rome to operate in a subversive manner in the United States?" Volckers economic and monetary policies were a reflection of those of Sir Geoffrey Howe, Chancellor of the Exchequer and member of the Committee of 300. This serves to illustrate how Britain has controlled the United States, beginning from soon after the War of 1812, and continues to exercise control over this country through the policies of the Committee of 300.What are the goals of the secret elite group, the inheritors of Illuminism (Moriah Conquering Wind), the Cult of Dionysius, the Cult of Isis, Catharism, Bogomilism? This elite group that also calls itself the Olympians (they truly believe they are equal in power and stature to the legendary gods of Olympus, who have, like Lucifer their god, set themselves above our true God) absolutely believe they have been charged with implementing the following by divine right: A One World Government - New World Order with a unified church and monetary system under their direction. Not many people are aware that the One World Government began setting up its "church" in the 1920s/1930s, for they realized the need for a religious belief inherent in mankind to have an outlet and, therefore, set up a "church" body to channel that belief in the direction they desired. The utter destruction of all national identity and national pride. The destruction of religion and more especially the Christian religion, with the one exception, their own creation mentioned above. Control of each and every person through means of mind control and what Brzezinski calls "technotronics" which would create human-like robots and a system of terror beside which Felix Dzerzinskis Red Terror will look like children at play. An end to all industrialization and the production of nuclear generated electric power in what they call "the post-industrial zero-growth society". Exempted are the computer and service industries. United States industries that remain will be exported to countries such as Mexico where abundant slave labor is available. Unemployables in the wake of industrial destruction will either become opium-heroin and/or cocaine addicts, or become statistics in the elimination process we know today as Global 2000 Report. Legalization of drugs and pornography. Depopulation of large cities according to the trial run carried out by the Pol Pot regime in Cambodia. It is interesting to note that Pol Pots genocidal plans were drawn up here in the United States by one of the Club of Romes research foundations. It is also interesting that the Committee is presently seeking to reinstate the Pol Pot butchers in Cambodia. Suppression of all scientific development except for those deemed beneficial by the Committee. Especially targeted is nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Particularly hated are the fusion experiments presently being scorned and ridiculed by the Committee and its jackals of the press. Development of the fusion torch would blow the Committees conception of "limited natural resources" right out of the window. A fusion torch properly used could create unlimited untapped natural resources from the most ordinary substances. Fusion torch uses are legion and would benefit mankind in a manner which is as yet not even remotely comprehended by the public. Cause by means of limited wars in the advanced countries, and by means of starvation and diseases in Third World countries, the death of 3 billion people by the year 2000, people they call "useless eaters". The Committee of 300 commissioned Cyrus Vance to write a paper on this subject of how best to bring about such genocide. The paper was produced under the title the Global 2000 Report and was accepted and approved for action by President Carter, for and on behalf of the U.S. Government, and accepted by Edwin Muskie, then Secretary of State. Under the terms of the Global 2000 Report, the population of the United States is to be reduced by 100 million by the year 2050. To weaken the moral fiber of the nation and to demoralize workers in the labor class by creating mass unemployment. As jobs dwindle due to the post industrial zero growth policies introduced by the Club of Rome, demoralized and discouraged workers will resort to alcohol and drugs. The youth of the land will be encouraged by means of rock music and drugs to rebel against the status quo, thus undermining and eventually destroying the family unit. In this regard The Committee of 300 commissioned Tavistock Institute to prepare a blueprint as to how this could be achieved. Tavistock directed Stanford Research to undertake the work under the direction of Professor Willis Harmon. This work later became known as The Aquarian Conspiracy. To keep people everywhere from deciding their own destinies by means of one created crisis after another and then "managing" such crises. This will confuse and demoralize the population to the extent where faced with too many choices, apathy on a massive scale will result. In the case of the United States, an agency for crisis management is already in place. It is called the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), whose existence I first disclosed in 1980. There will be more on FEMA as we proceed. To introduce new cults and continue to boost those already functioning, which includes rock "music" gangsters such as the filthy, degenerate Mick Jaggers Rolling Stones (a gangster group much favored by European Black Nobility) and all of the Tavistock-created "rock" groups which began with The Beatles. To continue to build up the cult of Christian fundamentalism begun by the British East India Companys servant, Darby, which will be misused to strengthen the Zionist state of Israel through identifying with the Jews through the myth of "Gods Chosen People" and by donating very substantial amounts of money to what they mistakenly believe is a religious cause in the furtherance of Christianity. To press for the spread of religious cults such as the Moslem Brotherhood, Moslem fundamentalism, the Sikhs, and to carry out experiments of the Jim Jones and "Son of Sam"-type of murders. It is worth noting that the late Ayatollah Khomeini was a creation of British Intelligence, Military Intelligence Division 6, commonly known as MI-6, as I reported in my 1985 work, What Really Happened In Iran. To export "religious liberation" ideas around the world so as to undermine all existing religions but more especially the Christian religion. This began with "Jesuit Liberation Theology" which brought about the downfall of the Somoza family rule in Nicaragua and which is today destroying El Salvador, now 25 years into a "civil war", Costa Rica and Honduras. One very active entity engaged in so-called liberation theology is the Communist-oriented Mary Knoll Mission. This accounts for the extensive media attention to the murder of four of Mary Knolls so-called nuns in El Salvador a few years ago.The four nuns were Communist subversive agents and their activities were widely documented by the government of El Salvador. The United States press and new media refused to give any space or coverage to the mass of documentation in possession of the Salvadoran government, documentation which proved what the Mary Knoll Mission nuns were doing in the country. Mary Knoll is in service in many countries, and played a leading role in bringing Communism to Rhodesia, Mozambique, Angola and South Africa. To cause a total collapse of the worlds economies and engender total political chaos. To take control of all foreign and domestic policies of the United States. To give the fullest support of supranational institutions such as the United Nations (UN), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the World Court and, as far as possible, make local institutions of lesser effect by gradually phasing them out or bringing them under the mantle of the United Nations. Penetrate and subvert all governments, and work from within them to destroy the sovereign integrity of nations represented by them. Organize a world-wide terrorist apparatus and negotiate with terrorists whenever terrorist activities take place. It will be recalled that it was Bettino Craxi who persuaded the Italian and U.S. governments to negotiate with the Red Brigades kidnappers of Prime Minister Moro and General Dozier. As an aside, General Dozier is under orders not to talk about what happened to him. Should he break that silence, he will not doubt be made "a horrible example of" in the manner in which Kissinger dealt with Aldo Moro, Ali Bhutto and General Zia ul Haq. Take control of education in America with the intent and purpose of utterly and completely destroying it. Much of these goals, which I first enumerated in 1969, have since been achieved or are well on their way to being achieved. Of special interest in the Committee of 300 program is the core of their economic policy, which is largely based on the teachings of Malthus, the son of an English country parson who was pushed to prominence by the British East India Company upon which the Committee of 300 is modeled.Malthus maintained that mans progress is tied to the Earths natural ability to support a given number of people, beyond which point Earths limited resources would rapidly be depleted. Once these natural resources have been consumed, it will be impossible to replace them. Hence, Malthus observed, it is necessary to limit populations within the boundaries of decreasing natural resources. It goes without saying that the elite will not allow themselves to be threatened by a burgeoning population of "useless eaters," hence culling must be practiced. As I have previously stated, "culling" is going on today, using the methods mandated in the Global 2000 Report. All economic plans of the Committee meet at the crossroads of Malthus and Frederick Von Hayek, another doom and gloom economist who is sponsored by the Club of Rome. The Austrian born Von Hayek has long been under the control of David Rockefeller, and Von Hayek theories are fairly widely accepted in the United States. According to Von Hayek, the United States economic platform must be based on: Urban Black Markets Small Hong Kong-type industries utilizing sweat-shop labor The Tourist Trade Free Enterprise Zones where speculators can operate unhindered and where the drug trade can flourish End of all industrial activity Close down all nuclear energy plants Von Hayeks ideas dove-tail perfectly with those of the Club of Rome, which is perhaps why he is so well promoted in rightwing circles in this country. The mantle of Von Hayek is being passed to a new, younger economist, Jeoffrey Sachs, who was sent to Poland to take up where Von Hayek left off. It will be recalled that the Club of Rome organized the Polish economic crisis which led to political destabilization of the country. The exact same economic planning, if one dare call it that, will be forced upon Russia, but if widespread opposition is encountered, the old price-support system will quickly be restored.The Committee of 300 ordered the Club of Rome to use Polish nationalism as a tool to destroy the Catholic Church and pave the way for Russian troops to reoccupy the country. The "Solidarity" movement was a creation of the Committee of 300s Zbigniew Brzezinski, who chose the name for the "trade union" and selected its office holders and organizers. Solidarity is no "labor" movement, although Gdansk shipyard workers were used to launch it, but rather it was a high-profile political organization, created to bring forced changes in preparation for the advent of the One World Government.Most of Solidaritys leaders were descendants of Bolshevik Jews from Odessa and were not noted for hating Communism. This helps to understand the saturation coverage provided by the American news media. Professor Sachs has taken the process a step further, ensuring economic slavery for a Poland recently freed from the domination of the USSR. Poland will now become the economic slave of the United States. All that has happened is that the master has changed.Brzezinski is the author of a book that should have been read by every American interested in the future of this country. Entitled The Technotronic Era, it was commissioned by the Club of Rome. The book is an open announcement of the manner and methods to be used to control the United States in the future. It also gave notice of cloning and "robotoids," i.e., people who acted like people and who seemed to be people, but who were not. Brzezinski, speaking for the Committee of 300 said the United States was moving "into an era unlike any of its predecessors; we are moving toward a technotronic era that could easily become a dictatorship." I reported fully on The Technotronic Era in 1981 and mentioned it in my newsletters a number of times.Brzezinski went on to say that our society "is now in an information revolution based on amusement focus, spectator spectacles (saturation coverage by television of sporting events) which provide an opiate for an increasingly purposeless mass." Was Brzezinski another seer and a prophet? Could he see into the future? The answer is NO; what he wrote in his book was simply copied from the Committee of 300s blueprint given to the Club of Rome for execution. Isnt it true that by 1991 we already have a purposeless mass of citizens? We could say that 30 million unemployed and 4 million homeless people are a "purposeless mass," or at least the nucleus of one.In addition to religion, "the opiate of the masses" which Lenin and Marx acknowledged was needed, we now have the opiates of mass spectator sport, unbridled sexual lusts, rock music and a whole new generation of drug addicts. Mindless sex and an epidemic of drug usage was created to distract people from what is happening all around them. In The Technotronic Era Brzezinski talks about "the masses" as if people are some inanimate object - which is possibly how we are viewed by the Committee of 300. He continually refers to the necessity of controlling us "masses".At one point, he lets the cat out of the bag: "At the same time the capacity to assert social and political control over the individual will vastly increase. It will soon be possible to assert almost continuous control over every citizen and to maintain up-to-date files, containing even the most personal details about health and personal behavior of every citizen in addition to the more customary data."These files will be subject to instantaneous retrieval by the authorities. Power will gravitate into the hands of those who control information. Our existing institutions will be supplanted by pre-crisis management institutions, the task of which will be to identify in advance likely social crises and to develop programs to cope with them. (This describes the structure of FEMA which came much later.)"This will encourage tendencies through the next several decades toward a Technotronic Era, a dictatorship, leaving even less room for political procedures as we know them. Finally, looking ahead to the end of the century, the possibility of biochemical mind control and genetic tinkering with man, including beings which will function like men and reason like them as well, could give rise to some difficult questions." Brzezinski was not writing as a private citizen but as Carters National Security Advisor and a leading member of the Club of Rome and a member of the Committee of 300, a member of the CFR and as a member of the old Polish Black Nobility. His book explains how America must leave its industrial base behind and enter into what is called "a distinct new historical era."
The Committee of 300 had already abrogated the decisions of life and death unto itself, and Peccei knew it. He had previously so indicated in his book Limits Of Growth. Peccei completely dismissed industrial and agricultural progress and in its place demanded that the world come under one coordinating council, to wit, the Club of Rome and its NATO institutions, in a One World Government. Natural resources would have to be allocated under the auspices of global planning. Nation states could either accept Club of Rome domination or else survive by the law of the jungle and fight to survive. In its first "test case," Meadows and Forrestor planned the 1973 Arab-Israeli War on behalf of the RIIA to sharply bring home to the world that natural resources like petroleum would in the future come under global planners control, meaning of course, under the control of the Committee of 300.Tavistock Institute called for a consultation with Peccei to which McGeorge Bundy, Homer Perlmutter and Dr. Alexander King were invited. From London Peccei traveled to the White House where he met with the President and his cabinet, followed by a visit to the State Department where he conferred with the Secretary of State, the State Departments intelligence service and States Policy Planning Council. Thus, from the very beginning, the United States government was fully aware of the Committee of 300s plans for this country.
That should answer the often asked question,
"Why would our government allow the Club of Rome to operate in a subversive manner in the United States?"
Volckers economic and monetary policies were a reflection of those of Sir Geoffrey Howe, Chancellor of the Exchequer and member of the Committee of 300. This serves to illustrate how Britain has controlled the United States, beginning from soon after the War of 1812, and continues to exercise control over this country through the policies of the Committee of 300.What are the goals of the secret elite group, the inheritors of Illuminism (Moriah Conquering Wind), the Cult of Dionysius, the Cult of Isis, Catharism, Bogomilism?
This elite group that also calls itself the Olympians (they truly believe they are equal in power and stature to the legendary gods of Olympus, who have, like Lucifer their god, set themselves above our true God) absolutely believe they have been charged with implementing the following by divine right:
A One World Government - New World Order with a unified church and monetary system under their direction. Not many people are aware that the One World Government began setting up its "church" in the 1920s/1930s, for they realized the need for a religious belief inherent in mankind to have an outlet and, therefore, set up a "church" body to channel that belief in the direction they desired. The utter destruction of all national identity and national pride. The destruction of religion and more especially the Christian religion, with the one exception, their own creation mentioned above. Control of each and every person through means of mind control and what Brzezinski calls "technotronics" which would create human-like robots and a system of terror beside which Felix Dzerzinskis Red Terror will look like children at play. An end to all industrialization and the production of nuclear generated electric power in what they call "the post-industrial zero-growth society". Exempted are the computer and service industries. United States industries that remain will be exported to countries such as Mexico where abundant slave labor is available. Unemployables in the wake of industrial destruction will either become opium-heroin and/or cocaine addicts, or become statistics in the elimination process we know today as Global 2000 Report. Legalization of drugs and pornography. Depopulation of large cities according to the trial run carried out by the Pol Pot regime in Cambodia. It is interesting to note that Pol Pots genocidal plans were drawn up here in the United States by one of the Club of Romes research foundations. It is also interesting that the Committee is presently seeking to reinstate the Pol Pot butchers in Cambodia. Suppression of all scientific development except for those deemed beneficial by the Committee. Especially targeted is nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Particularly hated are the fusion experiments presently being scorned and ridiculed by the Committee and its jackals of the press. Development of the fusion torch would blow the Committees conception of "limited natural resources" right out of the window. A fusion torch properly used could create unlimited untapped natural resources from the most ordinary substances. Fusion torch uses are legion and would benefit mankind in a manner which is as yet not even remotely comprehended by the public. Cause by means of limited wars in the advanced countries, and by means of starvation and diseases in Third World countries, the death of 3 billion people by the year 2000, people they call "useless eaters". The Committee of 300 commissioned Cyrus Vance to write a paper on this subject of how best to bring about such genocide. The paper was produced under the title the Global 2000 Report and was accepted and approved for action by President Carter, for and on behalf of the U.S. Government, and accepted by Edwin Muskie, then Secretary of State. Under the terms of the Global 2000 Report, the population of the United States is to be reduced by 100 million by the year 2050. To weaken the moral fiber of the nation and to demoralize workers in the labor class by creating mass unemployment. As jobs dwindle due to the post industrial zero growth policies introduced by the Club of Rome, demoralized and discouraged workers will resort to alcohol and drugs. The youth of the land will be encouraged by means of rock music and drugs to rebel against the status quo, thus undermining and eventually destroying the family unit. In this regard The Committee of 300 commissioned Tavistock Institute to prepare a blueprint as to how this could be achieved. Tavistock directed Stanford Research to undertake the work under the direction of Professor Willis Harmon. This work later became known as The Aquarian Conspiracy. To keep people everywhere from deciding their own destinies by means of one created crisis after another and then "managing" such crises. This will confuse and demoralize the population to the extent where faced with too many choices, apathy on a massive scale will result. In the case of the United States, an agency for crisis management is already in place. It is called the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), whose existence I first disclosed in 1980. There will be more on FEMA as we proceed. To introduce new cults and continue to boost those already functioning, which includes rock "music" gangsters such as the filthy, degenerate Mick Jaggers Rolling Stones (a gangster group much favored by European Black Nobility) and all of the Tavistock-created "rock" groups which began with The Beatles. To continue to build up the cult of Christian fundamentalism begun by the British East India Companys servant, Darby, which will be misused to strengthen the Zionist state of Israel through identifying with the Jews through the myth of "Gods Chosen People" and by donating very substantial amounts of money to what they mistakenly believe is a religious cause in the furtherance of Christianity. To press for the spread of religious cults such as the Moslem Brotherhood, Moslem fundamentalism, the Sikhs, and to carry out experiments of the Jim Jones and "Son of Sam"-type of murders. It is worth noting that the late Ayatollah Khomeini was a creation of British Intelligence, Military Intelligence Division 6, commonly known as MI-6, as I reported in my 1985 work, What Really Happened In Iran. To export "religious liberation" ideas around the world so as to undermine all existing religions but more especially the Christian religion. This began with "Jesuit Liberation Theology" which brought about the downfall of the Somoza family rule in Nicaragua and which is today destroying El Salvador, now 25 years into a "civil war", Costa Rica and Honduras. One very active entity engaged in so-called liberation theology is the Communist-oriented Mary Knoll Mission. This accounts for the extensive media attention to the murder of four of Mary Knolls so-called nuns in El Salvador a few years ago.The four nuns were Communist subversive agents and their activities were widely documented by the government of El Salvador. The United States press and new media refused to give any space or coverage to the mass of documentation in possession of the Salvadoran government, documentation which proved what the Mary Knoll Mission nuns were doing in the country. Mary Knoll is in service in many countries, and played a leading role in bringing Communism to Rhodesia, Mozambique, Angola and South Africa. To cause a total collapse of the worlds economies and engender total political chaos. To take control of all foreign and domestic policies of the United States. To give the fullest support of supranational institutions such as the United Nations (UN), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the World Court and, as far as possible, make local institutions of lesser effect by gradually phasing them out or bringing them under the mantle of the United Nations. Penetrate and subvert all governments, and work from within them to destroy the sovereign integrity of nations represented by them. Organize a world-wide terrorist apparatus and negotiate with terrorists whenever terrorist activities take place. It will be recalled that it was Bettino Craxi who persuaded the Italian and U.S. governments to negotiate with the Red Brigades kidnappers of Prime Minister Moro and General Dozier. As an aside, General Dozier is under orders not to talk about what happened to him. Should he break that silence, he will not doubt be made "a horrible example of" in the manner in which Kissinger dealt with Aldo Moro, Ali Bhutto and General Zia ul Haq. Take control of education in America with the intent and purpose of utterly and completely destroying it.
A One World Government - New World Order with a unified church and monetary system under their direction. Not many people are aware that the One World Government began setting up its "church" in the 1920s/1930s, for they realized the need for a religious belief inherent in mankind to have an outlet and, therefore, set up a "church" body to channel that belief in the direction they desired.
The utter destruction of all national identity and national pride.
The destruction of religion and more especially the Christian religion, with the one exception, their own creation mentioned above.
Control of each and every person through means of mind control and what Brzezinski calls "technotronics" which would create human-like robots and a system of terror beside which Felix Dzerzinskis Red Terror will look like children at play.
An end to all industrialization and the production of nuclear generated electric power in what they call "the post-industrial zero-growth society". Exempted are the computer and service industries. United States industries that remain will be exported to countries such as Mexico where abundant slave labor is available. Unemployables in the wake of industrial destruction will either become opium-heroin and/or cocaine addicts, or become statistics in the elimination process we know today as Global 2000 Report.
Legalization of drugs and pornography.
Depopulation of large cities according to the trial run carried out by the Pol Pot regime in Cambodia. It is interesting to note that Pol Pots genocidal plans were drawn up here in the United States by one of the Club of Romes research foundations. It is also interesting that the Committee is presently seeking to reinstate the Pol Pot butchers in Cambodia.
Suppression of all scientific development except for those deemed beneficial by the Committee. Especially targeted is nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Particularly hated are the fusion experiments presently being scorned and ridiculed by the Committee and its jackals of the press. Development of the fusion torch would blow the Committees conception of "limited natural resources" right out of the window. A fusion torch properly used could create unlimited untapped natural resources from the most ordinary substances. Fusion torch uses are legion and would benefit mankind in a manner which is as yet not even remotely comprehended by the public.
Cause by means of limited wars in the advanced countries, and by means of starvation and diseases in Third World countries, the death of 3 billion people by the year 2000, people they call "useless eaters". The Committee of 300 commissioned Cyrus Vance to write a paper on this subject of how best to bring about such genocide. The paper was produced under the title the Global 2000 Report and was accepted and approved for action by President Carter, for and on behalf of the U.S. Government, and accepted by Edwin Muskie, then Secretary of State. Under the terms of the Global 2000 Report, the population of the United States is to be reduced by 100 million by the year 2050.
To weaken the moral fiber of the nation and to demoralize workers in the labor class by creating mass unemployment. As jobs dwindle due to the post industrial zero growth policies introduced by the Club of Rome, demoralized and discouraged workers will resort to alcohol and drugs. The youth of the land will be encouraged by means of rock music and drugs to rebel against the status quo, thus undermining and eventually destroying the family unit. In this regard The Committee of 300 commissioned Tavistock Institute to prepare a blueprint as to how this could be achieved. Tavistock directed Stanford Research to undertake the work under the direction of Professor Willis Harmon. This work later became known as The Aquarian Conspiracy.
To keep people everywhere from deciding their own destinies by means of one created crisis after another and then "managing" such crises. This will confuse and demoralize the population to the extent where faced with too many choices, apathy on a massive scale will result. In the case of the United States, an agency for crisis management is already in place. It is called the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), whose existence I first disclosed in 1980. There will be more on FEMA as we proceed.
To introduce new cults and continue to boost those already functioning, which includes rock "music" gangsters such as the filthy, degenerate Mick Jaggers Rolling Stones (a gangster group much favored by European Black Nobility) and all of the Tavistock-created "rock" groups which began with The Beatles.
To continue to build up the cult of Christian fundamentalism begun by the British East India Companys servant, Darby, which will be misused to strengthen the Zionist state of Israel through identifying with the Jews through the myth of "Gods Chosen People" and by donating very substantial amounts of money to what they mistakenly believe is a religious cause in the furtherance of Christianity.
To press for the spread of religious cults such as the Moslem Brotherhood, Moslem fundamentalism, the Sikhs, and to carry out experiments of the Jim Jones and "Son of Sam"-type of murders. It is worth noting that the late Ayatollah Khomeini was a creation of British Intelligence, Military Intelligence Division 6, commonly known as MI-6, as I reported in my 1985 work, What Really Happened In Iran.
To export "religious liberation" ideas around the world so as to undermine all existing religions but more especially the Christian religion. This began with "Jesuit Liberation Theology" which brought about the downfall of the Somoza family rule in Nicaragua and which is today destroying El Salvador, now 25 years into a "civil war", Costa Rica and Honduras. One very active entity engaged in so-called liberation theology is the Communist-oriented Mary Knoll Mission. This accounts for the extensive media attention to the murder of four of Mary Knolls so-called nuns in El Salvador a few years ago.The four nuns were Communist subversive agents and their activities were widely documented by the government of El Salvador. The United States press and new media refused to give any space or coverage to the mass of documentation in possession of the Salvadoran government, documentation which proved what the Mary Knoll Mission nuns were doing in the country. Mary Knoll is in service in many countries, and played a leading role in bringing Communism to Rhodesia, Mozambique, Angola and South Africa.
To cause a total collapse of the worlds economies and engender total political chaos.
To take control of all foreign and domestic policies of the United States.
To give the fullest support of supranational institutions such as the United Nations (UN), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), the World Court and, as far as possible, make local institutions of lesser effect by gradually phasing them out or bringing them under the mantle of the United Nations.
Penetrate and subvert all governments, and work from within them to destroy the sovereign integrity of nations represented by them.
Organize a world-wide terrorist apparatus and negotiate with terrorists whenever terrorist activities take place. It will be recalled that it was Bettino Craxi who persuaded the Italian and U.S. governments to negotiate with the Red Brigades kidnappers of Prime Minister Moro and General Dozier. As an aside, General Dozier is under orders not to talk about what happened to him. Should he break that silence, he will not doubt be made "a horrible example of" in the manner in which Kissinger dealt with Aldo Moro, Ali Bhutto and General Zia ul Haq.
Take control of education in America with the intent and purpose of utterly and completely destroying it.
Much of these goals, which I first enumerated in 1969, have since been achieved or are well on their way to being achieved.
Of special interest in the Committee of 300 program is the core of their economic policy, which is largely based on the teachings of Malthus, the son of an English country parson who was pushed to prominence by the British East India Company upon which the Committee of 300 is modeled.Malthus maintained that mans progress is tied to the Earths natural ability to support a given number of people, beyond which point Earths limited resources would rapidly be depleted.
Once these natural resources have been consumed, it will be impossible to replace them. Hence, Malthus observed, it is necessary to limit populations within the boundaries of decreasing natural resources. It goes without saying that the elite will not allow themselves to be threatened by a burgeoning population of "useless eaters," hence culling must be practiced.
As I have previously stated, "culling" is going on today, using the methods mandated in the Global 2000 Report. All economic plans of the Committee meet at the crossroads of Malthus and Frederick Von Hayek, another doom and gloom economist who is sponsored by the Club of Rome.
The Austrian born Von Hayek has long been under the control of David Rockefeller, and Von Hayek theories are fairly widely accepted in the United States.
According to Von Hayek, the United States economic platform must be based on:
Urban Black Markets Small Hong Kong-type industries utilizing sweat-shop labor The Tourist Trade Free Enterprise Zones where speculators can operate unhindered and where the drug trade can flourish End of all industrial activity Close down all nuclear energy plants
Urban Black Markets
Small Hong Kong-type industries utilizing sweat-shop labor
The Tourist Trade
Free Enterprise Zones where speculators can operate unhindered and where the drug trade can flourish
End of all industrial activity
Close down all nuclear energy plants
Von Hayeks ideas dove-tail perfectly with those of the Club of Rome, which is perhaps why he is so well promoted in rightwing circles in this country.
The mantle of Von Hayek is being passed to a new, younger economist, Jeoffrey Sachs, who was sent to Poland to take up where Von Hayek left off. It will be recalled that the Club of Rome organized the Polish economic crisis which led to political destabilization of the country. The exact same economic planning, if one dare call it that, will be forced upon Russia, but if widespread opposition is encountered, the old price-support system will quickly be restored.The Committee of 300 ordered the Club of Rome to use Polish nationalism as a tool to destroy the Catholic Church and pave the way for Russian troops to reoccupy the country. The "Solidarity" movement was a creation of the Committee of 300s Zbigniew Brzezinski, who chose the name for the "trade union" and selected its office holders and organizers. Solidarity is no "labor" movement, although Gdansk shipyard workers were used to launch it, but rather it was a high-profile political organization, created to bring forced changes in preparation for the advent of the One World Government.Most of Solidaritys leaders were descendants of Bolshevik Jews from Odessa and were not noted for hating Communism. This helps to understand the saturation coverage provided by the American news media.
Professor Sachs has taken the process a step further, ensuring economic slavery for a Poland recently freed from the domination of the USSR. Poland will now become the economic slave of the United States. All that has happened is that the master has changed.Brzezinski is the author of a book that should have been read by every American interested in the future of this country. Entitled The Technotronic Era, it was commissioned by the Club of Rome.
The book is an open announcement of the manner and methods to be used to control the United States in the future. It also gave notice of cloning and "robotoids," i.e., people who acted like people and who seemed to be people, but who were not. Brzezinski, speaking for the Committee of 300 said the United States was moving "into an era unlike any of its predecessors; we are moving toward a technotronic era that could easily become a dictatorship."
I reported fully on The Technotronic Era in 1981 and mentioned it in my newsletters a number of times.Brzezinski went on to say that our society "is now in an information revolution based on amusement focus, spectator spectacles (saturation coverage by television of sporting events) which provide an opiate for an increasingly purposeless mass." Was Brzezinski another seer and a prophet? Could he see into the future?
The answer is NO; what he wrote in his book was simply copied from the Committee of 300s blueprint given to the Club of Rome for execution. Isnt it true that by 1991 we already have a purposeless mass of citizens? We could say that 30 million unemployed and 4 million homeless people are a "purposeless mass," or at least the nucleus of one.In addition to religion, "the opiate of the masses" which Lenin and Marx acknowledged was needed, we now have the opiates of mass spectator sport, unbridled sexual lusts, rock music and a whole new generation of drug addicts.
Mindless sex and an epidemic of drug usage was created to distract people from what is happening all around them. In The Technotronic Era Brzezinski talks about "the masses" as if people are some inanimate object - which is possibly how we are viewed by the Committee of 300. He continually refers to the necessity of controlling us "masses".At one point, he lets the cat out of the bag:
"At the same time the capacity to assert social and political control over the individual will vastly increase. It will soon be possible to assert almost continuous control over every citizen and to maintain up-to-date files, containing even the most personal details about health and personal behavior of every citizen in addition to the more customary data."These files will be subject to instantaneous retrieval by the authorities. Power will gravitate into the hands of those who control information. Our existing institutions will be supplanted by pre-crisis management institutions, the task of which will be to identify in advance likely social crises and to develop programs to cope with them. (This describes the structure of FEMA which came much later.)"This will encourage tendencies through the next several decades toward a Technotronic Era, a dictatorship, leaving even less room for political procedures as we know them. Finally, looking ahead to the end of the century, the possibility of biochemical mind control and genetic tinkering with man, including beings which will function like men and reason like them as well, could give rise to some difficult questions."
Brzezinski was not writing as a private citizen but as Carters National Security Advisor and a leading member of the Club of Rome and a member of the Committee of 300, a member of the CFR and as a member of the old Polish Black Nobility.
His book explains how America must leave its industrial base behind and enter into what is called "a distinct new historical era."
Again, quoting from The Committee of 300:
Also in 1971, at a later date, the Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation held its energy strategy meeting for the Club of Rome: The recurring theme: LIMIT THE GROWTH OF THE U.S.A. Then to crown it all, the First Global Conference on the Future was held in July of 1980, attended by 4000 social engineers and members of think tanks, all of whom were members of or affiliated with various institutions operating under Club of Rome umbrella organizations. The First Global Conference on the Future had the blessing of the White House which held its own conference based on the transcripts of the First Global Conference forum. It was called the "White House Commission on the 1980s" and OFFICIALLY recommended the policies of the Club of Rome "as a guide to future U.S. policies" and even went so far as to say that the United States economy is moving out of the industrial phase. This echoed the theme of Sir Peter Vickers Hall and Zbigniew Brzezinski and provides further proof of the control exercised by the Committee of 300 over U.S. affairs, both domestic and foreign.As I said in 1981, we are set up, politically, socially and economically so that we remain locked into the Club of Romes plans.
Also in 1971, at a later date, the Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation held its energy strategy meeting for the Club of Rome: The recurring theme: LIMIT THE GROWTH OF THE U.S.A. Then to crown it all, the First Global Conference on the Future was held in July of 1980, attended by 4000 social engineers and members of think tanks, all of whom were members of or affiliated with various institutions operating under Club of Rome umbrella organizations. The First Global Conference on the Future had the blessing of the White House which held its own conference based on the transcripts of the First Global Conference forum. It was called the "White House Commission on the 1980s" and OFFICIALLY recommended the policies of the Club of Rome "as a guide to future U.S. policies" and even went so far as to say that the United States economy is moving out of the industrial phase.
This echoed the theme of Sir Peter Vickers Hall and Zbigniew Brzezinski and provides further proof of the control exercised by the Committee of 300 over U.S. affairs, both domestic and foreign.As I said in 1981, we are set up, politically, socially and economically so that we remain locked into the Club of Romes plans.
THE CLUB OF ROME
In En Route To Global Occupation: A High Ranking Government Liaison Exposes The Secret Agenda For World Unification, written by Gary H. Kah, the Club of Rome is described as:
Another organization that has drawn a high percentage of its members from the Council on Foreign Relations is the Club of Rome. The Club of Rome (COR) claims to be an informal organization of less than one hundred people who are, in their own words, "...scientists, educators, economists, humanists, industrialists, and national and international civil servants..." Included among these have been members of the Rockefeller family. Altogether, there are approximately twenty-five CFR members who belong to the American Association for the Club of Rome. The Club had its beginnings in April 1968, when leaders from ten different countries gathered in Rome at the invitation of Aurelio Peccei, a prominent Italian industrialist with close ties to the Fiat (theres a company worth looking at) and Olivetti Corporations. The organization claims to have the solutions for world peace and prosperity. However, these solutions always seem to promote the concept of world government at the expense of national sovereignty.The Club of Rome has been charged with the task of overseeing the regionalization and unification of the entire world; the Club could therefore be said to be one step above the Bilderbergers in the one-world hierarchy. (COWs founder, Peccei, has been a close associate of the Bilderbergers.) As far as I have been able to determine, most of the directives for the planning of the world government are presently coming from the Club of Rome.The Club s findings and recommendations are published from time to time in special, highly confidential reports, which are sent to the power-elite to be implemented. On 17 September 1973 the Club released one such report, entitled Regionalized and Adaptive Model of the Global World System, prepared by COR members Mihajlo Mesarovic and Eduard Pestel.The document reveals that the Club has divided the world into ten political/economic regions, which it refers to as "kingdoms". While these "kingdoms" are not set in concrete and changes could still occur, it gives us an idea of what lies ahead.Referring to the Mesarovic-Pestel study, Aurelio Peccei, the Clubs founder, states: Their world model, based on new developments of the multilevel hierarchical systems theory, divides the world into ten interdependent and mutually interacting regions of political, economic or environmental coherence... It will be recognized of course that these are still prototype models. Mesarovic and Pestel have assumed a Herculean task. The full implementation of their work will take many years.
Another organization that has drawn a high percentage of its members from the Council on Foreign Relations is the Club of Rome.
The Club of Rome (COR) claims to be an informal organization of less than one hundred people who are, in their own words, "...scientists, educators, economists, humanists, industrialists, and national and international civil servants..." Included among these have been members of the Rockefeller family.
Altogether, there are approximately twenty-five CFR members who belong to the American Association for the Club of Rome. The Club had its beginnings in April 1968, when leaders from ten different countries gathered in Rome at the invitation of Aurelio Peccei, a prominent Italian industrialist with close ties to the Fiat (theres a company worth looking at) and Olivetti Corporations.
The organization claims to have the solutions for world peace and prosperity. However, these solutions always seem to promote the concept of world government at the expense of national sovereignty.The Club of Rome has been charged with the task of overseeing the regionalization and unification of the entire world; the Club could therefore be said to be one step above the Bilderbergers in the one-world hierarchy. (COWs founder, Peccei, has been a close associate of the Bilderbergers.) As far as I have been able to determine, most of the directives for the planning of the world government are presently coming from the Club of Rome.The Club s findings and recommendations are published from time to time in special, highly confidential reports, which are sent to the power-elite to be implemented. On 17 September 1973 the Club released one such report, entitled Regionalized and Adaptive Model of the Global World System, prepared by COR members Mihajlo Mesarovic and Eduard Pestel.The document reveals that the Club has divided the world into ten political/economic regions, which it refers to as "kingdoms". While these "kingdoms" are not set in concrete and changes could still occur, it gives us an idea of what lies ahead.Referring to the Mesarovic-Pestel study, Aurelio Peccei, the Clubs founder, states:
Their world model, based on new developments of the multilevel hierarchical systems theory, divides the world into ten interdependent and mutually interacting regions of political, economic or environmental coherence... It will be recognized of course that these are still prototype models. Mesarovic and Pestel have assumed a Herculean task.
The full implementation of their work will take many years.
SENATOR JESSE HELMS
On December 15, 1987, Senator Helms delivered a speech before Congress that contained, in part, the following comments.
This campaign against the American people - against traditional American culture and values - is systematic psychological warfare. It is orchestrated by a vast array of interests comprising not only the Eastern establishment but also the radical left. Among this group we find the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, the money center banks and multinational corporations, the media, the educational establishment, the entertainment industry, and the large tax-exempt foundations.Mr. President, a careful examination of what is happening behind the scenes reveals that all of these interests are working in concert with the masters of the Kremlin in order to create what some refer to as a New World Order. Private organizations such as the Council on Foreign Relations the Royal Institute of International Affairs the Trilateral Commission the Dartmouth Conference the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies the Atlantic Institute [or "Council"?] the Bilderberger Group, ...serve to disseminate and to coordinate the plans for this so-called New World Order in powerful business, financial, academic, and official circles...The psychological campaign that I am describing, as I have said, is the work of groups within the Eastern establishment, that amorphous amalgam of wealth and social connections whose power resides in its control over our financial system and over a large portion of our industrial sector. The principal instrument of this control over the American economy and money is the Federal Reserve System. The policies and the industrial sectors, primarily the multinational corporations, are influenced by the money center banks through debt financing and through the large blocks of stock controlled by the trust departments of the money center banks.Anyone familiar with American history, and particularly American economic history, cannot fail to notice the control over the Department of State and the Central Intelligence Agency which Wall Street seems to exercise...The influence of establishment insiders over our foreign policy has become a fact of life in our time. This pervasive influence runs contrary to the real long-term national security of our Nation. It is an influence which, if unchecked, could ultimately subvert our constitutional order.The viewpoint of the establishment today is called globalism. Not so long ago, this viewpoint was called the "One-World" view by its critics. The phrase is no longer fashionable among sophisticates; yet, the phrase "One World" is still apt because nothing has changed in the minds and actions of those promoting policies consistent with its fundamental tenets.Mr. President, in the globalist point of view, nation-states and national boundaries do not count for anything. Political philosophies and political principles seem to become simply relative. Indeed, even constitutions are irrelevant to the exercise of power. Liberty and tyranny are viewed as neither necessarily good nor evil, and certainly not a component of policy.In this point of view, the activities of international financial and industrial forces should be oriented to bringing this one-world design - with a convergence of the Soviet and American systems as its centerpiece - into being... All that matters to this club is the maximization of profits resulting from the practice of what can be described as finance capitalism, a system which rests upon the twin pillars of debt and monopoly. This isnt real capitalism. It is the road to economic concentration and to political slavery.
This campaign against the American people - against traditional American culture and values - is systematic psychological warfare. It is orchestrated by a vast array of interests comprising not only the Eastern establishment but also the radical left. Among this group we find the Department of State, the Department of Commerce, the money center banks and multinational corporations, the media, the educational establishment, the entertainment industry, and the large tax-exempt foundations.Mr. President, a careful examination of what is happening behind the scenes reveals that all of these interests are working in concert with the masters of the Kremlin in order to create what some refer to as a New World Order.
Private organizations such as
the Council on Foreign Relations the Royal Institute of International Affairs the Trilateral Commission the Dartmouth Conference the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies the Atlantic Institute [or "Council"?] the Bilderberger Group,
the Council on Foreign Relations
the Royal Institute of International Affairs
the Trilateral Commission
the Dartmouth Conference
the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies
the Atlantic Institute [or "Council"?]
the Bilderberger Group,
...serve to disseminate and to coordinate the plans for this so-called New World Order in powerful business, financial, academic, and official circles...The psychological campaign that I am describing, as I have said, is the work of groups within the Eastern establishment, that amorphous amalgam of wealth and social connections whose power resides in its control over our financial system and over a large portion of our industrial sector. The principal instrument of this control over the American economy and money is the Federal Reserve System.
The policies and the industrial sectors, primarily the multinational corporations, are influenced by the money center banks through debt financing and through the large blocks of stock controlled by the trust departments of the money center banks.Anyone familiar with American history, and particularly American economic history, cannot fail to notice the control over the Department of State and the Central Intelligence Agency which Wall Street seems to exercise...The influence of establishment insiders over our foreign policy has become a fact of life in our time. This pervasive influence runs contrary to the real long-term national security of our Nation. It is an influence which, if unchecked, could ultimately subvert our constitutional order.The viewpoint of the establishment today is called globalism. Not so long ago, this viewpoint was called the "One-World" view by its critics. The phrase is no longer fashionable among sophisticates; yet, the phrase "One World" is still apt because nothing has changed in the minds and actions of those promoting policies consistent with its fundamental tenets.Mr. President, in the globalist point of view, nation-states and national boundaries do not count for anything. Political philosophies and political principles seem to become simply relative. Indeed, even constitutions are irrelevant to the exercise of power. Liberty and tyranny are viewed as neither necessarily good nor evil, and certainly not a component of policy.In this point of view, the activities of international financial and industrial forces should be oriented to bringing this one-world design - with a convergence of the Soviet and American systems as its centerpiece - into being...
All that matters to this club is the maximization of profits resulting from the practice of what can be described as finance capitalism, a system which rests upon the twin pillars of debt and monopoly. This isnt real capitalism.
It is the road to economic concentration and to political slavery.
THE WORLD ORDER
In Eustace Mullins book The World Order - Our Secret Rulers, he writes:
In 1985, as a sequel to the history of the Federal Reserve System, this writer published The World Order as a compendium of additional information on this subject. It never occurred to me to call it The New World Order because my researches had traced its depredations back for some five thousand years. Perhaps in response to the exposes in this volume, the spokesman for the Brotherhood of Death went public with their claims for a "New World Order", which essentially was the Brave New World described by Aldous Huxley in his groundbreaking novel. Behind all demands for this new order were the same imperatives, as listed by Professor Stanley Hoffmann, in Primacy or World Order, "What will have to take place is a gradual adaptation of the social, economic, and political system of the United States to the imperatives of world order." As Professor Hoffmann points out, the United States is the primary target of the missiles of the New World Order because it still retains, however perverted and distorted, the essential machinery for a republic which provides for the freedom of its citizens. The Orders present goals were originated by Lord Castlereagh at the Congress of Vienna in 1815, when he handed over Europe to the victorious Money Power, as exemplified by the presence of the House of Rothschild. This was "the balance of power", which was never a balance of power at all, but rather a worldwide system of control to be manipulated at the pleasure of the conspirators. Henry Kissinger has been busily reviving this program for renewed control, as he wrote in a think piece for Newsweek, January 28, 1991, "We now face a new balance of power. Today, it translates into the notion of a new world order, which would emerge from a set of legal arrangements to be safeguarded by collective security." When minions of the World Order such as Henry Kissinger call for "collective security", what they are really seeking is a protective order behind which they can safely carry out their depredations against all mankind. This was very reluctantly identified by President George Bush, after months of dodging questions about the "new world order" which he had publicly called for, when he finally stated it really was "a United Nations peacekeeping force". This took us back to the Second World War, which produced the United Nations. Walter Millis, in Road To War, America 1914-17 further removed this program to the First World War, when he wrote, "The Colonels (Edward Mandel House) sole justification for preparing such a bath of blood for his countrymen was his hope of establishing a new world order of peace and security as a result." Note the call for "security": once again, this is the cry of the international criminals for protection as they carry out their universal work of sabotage and destruction. House had first laid out the program for this "world order" in his book, Philip Dru - Administrator, in which Dru, (House himself) became the guiding force behind the government and directed it to the goals of world order. The same forces set up a Second World War, from which the United Nations emerged as the new guarantor of "collective security". Random House Dictionary tells us that the United Nations was created in Washington, January 2, 1942, when twenty-six nations allied against the Axis, or "fascist" Powers. In The American Language, H.L. Mencken says that President Roosevelt coined the term, "United Nations" in conference with Prime Minister Winston Churchill at the White House in December of 1941, on the eve of the Pearl Harbor attack which manipulated us into World War II. The United Nations became an active entity at the Dumbarton Oaks conference in 1944, when Great Britain, the United States and Russia set it in motion as a financial dictator.If the United Nations was created to fight "fascism", its mission ended in 1945, when Fascism was defeated by military force. Fascism derives its name from the bundle of rods which ancient Roman officials carried into court to punish offenders. Thus, fascism historically means law and order, the rule of law, and the intent to punish criminals. This, of course, is what the conspirators of the World Order wish to avoid at all costs. The Oxford English Dictionary defines Fascism as "one of a body of Italian nationalists which was organized in 1919 to oppose Communism in Italy." Other definitions state simply that the Fascists were organized "to fight Bolshevism". Thus the United Nations essentially was set up to battle against "anti-Communists" as exemplified by Germany, Italy and Japan. When this goal was successful in 1945, the United Nations no longer had a historic mission. Nevertheless, it continued to function, and the Rockefellers donated the most expensive parcel of real estate in Manhattan for its world headquarters. It was against this background that the Governor of New York, Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, addressed a meeting at the Sheraton Park Hotel on July 26, 1968, in which he called for the creation of "a new world order". Rockefeller ignored the fact that it was Adolf Hitler who had preempted this title as "My New Order" for Europe. The phrase was an attractive one to our politicians, as President Bush revealed when he addressed Congress on September 11, 1990, in a speech carried nationally on television, in which he called for, "a new world... a world quite different from the one we have known ... a new world order." He continued to reiterate this demand in subsequent addresses on television, declaring on January 29, 1991 in his annual State of the Union address, "It is a big idea - a new world order, where diverse nations are drawn together in common to achieve the universal aspirations of mankind, peace and security, freedom, and the rule of law." He repeated this toxin on February 1, 1991 in three separate addresses on the same day, in which he emphasized the new world order call. He modestly refrained from pointing out that it was not a new phrase, and that it had been adopted by Congress in 1782 for the Great Seal of the United States, the incomplete pyramid with its occult eye, and the phrase "Novus Ordo Seclorum" beneath it, identifying this nation as committed to "a new world order" or a new order for the ages which apparently depended upon pyramid power for its fulfillment. This symbol dated from 1776, when Adam Weishaupt, founder of the Illuminati sect, formulated a program remarkably similar to that of the world order conspirators today. Weishaupt called for: "Abolition of all monarchies and all ordered governments Abolition of private property and inheritances Abolition of patriotism and nationalism Abolition of family life and the institution of marriage, and the establishment of communal education for children Abolition of all religion." It was hardly accidental that the Rothchilds, when they hired Karl Marx and the League of Just Men to formulate a program, received the Communist Manifesto of 1848, which contained the above formula. Weishaupts activities had taken over the Freemason movement in 1782, which then became one of the vehicles for the enactment of this program. Its true origin in ancient Oriental despotism was revealed on the editorial page of The Washington Post, January 5, 1992, when philosopher Nathan Gardels warned that, "the ideal area for the new world order would be China, not the United States." Gardels points out that Marxism was a product of Western philosophy, i.e., Hegel, but that a world order would produce Oriental despotism. He supported his thesis with quotes from the Japanese Prime Minister, who complained that "abstract notions of human rights" should not interfere with foreign policy, and from Chinese leaders who denounced demands for independent liberty as "garbage". President Bush modestly points out one of his aides, Brent Scowcroft, as the author of the magical phrase, "new world order". People Magazine, November 25, 1991 said, "Scowcrofts influence first became evident last year, several weeks after Iraqs invasion of Kuwait. Again, while fishing, he and Bush came up with the idea of "a new world order", an ambitious phrase meant to suggest a new United States foreign policy in the post-cold war era."
In 1985, as a sequel to the history of the Federal Reserve System, this writer published The World Order as a compendium of additional information on this subject. It never occurred to me to call it The New World Order because my researches had traced its depredations back for some five thousand years.
Perhaps in response to the exposes in this volume, the spokesman for the Brotherhood of Death went public with their claims for a "New World Order", which essentially was the Brave New World described by Aldous Huxley in his groundbreaking novel.
Behind all demands for this new order were the same imperatives, as listed by Professor Stanley Hoffmann, in Primacy or World Order,
"What will have to take place is a gradual adaptation of the social, economic, and political system of the United States to the imperatives of world order."
As Professor Hoffmann points out, the United States is the primary target of the missiles of the New World Order because it still retains, however perverted and distorted, the essential machinery for a republic which provides for the freedom of its citizens.
The Orders present goals were originated by Lord Castlereagh at the Congress of Vienna in 1815, when he handed over Europe to the victorious Money Power, as exemplified by the presence of the House of Rothschild.
This was "the balance of power", which was never a balance of power at all, but rather a worldwide system of control to be manipulated at the pleasure of the conspirators.
Henry Kissinger has been busily reviving this program for renewed control, as he wrote in a think piece for Newsweek, January 28, 1991,
"We now face a new balance of power. Today, it translates into the notion of a new world order, which would emerge from a set of legal arrangements to be safeguarded by collective security."
When minions of the World Order such as Henry Kissinger call for "collective security", what they are really seeking is a protective order behind which they can safely carry out their depredations against all mankind. This was very reluctantly identified by President George Bush, after months of dodging questions about the "new world order" which he had publicly called for, when he finally stated it really was "a United Nations peacekeeping force".
This took us back to the Second World War, which produced the United Nations.
Walter Millis, in Road To War, America 1914-17 further removed this program to the First World War, when he wrote,
"The Colonels (Edward Mandel House) sole justification for preparing such a bath of blood for his countrymen was his hope of establishing a new world order of peace and security as a result."
Note the call for "security": once again, this is the cry of the international criminals for protection as they carry out their universal work of sabotage and destruction.
House had first laid out the program for this "world order" in his book, Philip Dru - Administrator, in which Dru, (House himself) became the guiding force behind the government and directed it to the goals of world order. The same forces set up a Second World War, from which the United Nations emerged as the new guarantor of "collective security".
Random House Dictionary tells us that the United Nations was created in Washington, January 2, 1942, when twenty-six nations allied against the Axis, or "fascist" Powers. In The American Language, H.L. Mencken says that President Roosevelt coined the term, "United Nations" in conference with Prime Minister Winston Churchill at the White House in December of 1941, on the eve of the Pearl Harbor attack which manipulated us into World War II.
The United Nations became an active entity at the Dumbarton Oaks conference in 1944, when Great Britain, the United States and Russia set it in motion as a financial dictator.If the United Nations was created to fight "fascism", its mission ended in 1945, when Fascism was defeated by military force.
Fascism derives its name from the bundle of rods which ancient Roman officials carried into court to punish offenders. Thus, fascism historically means law and order, the rule of law, and the intent to punish criminals. This, of course, is what the conspirators of the World Order wish to avoid at all costs. The Oxford English Dictionary defines Fascism as "one of a body of Italian nationalists which was organized in 1919 to oppose Communism in Italy."
Other definitions state simply that the Fascists were organized "to fight Bolshevism". Thus the United Nations essentially was set up to battle against "anti-Communists" as exemplified by Germany, Italy and Japan. When this goal was successful in 1945, the United Nations no longer had a historic mission.
Nevertheless, it continued to function, and the Rockefellers donated the most expensive parcel of real estate in Manhattan for its world headquarters. It was against this background that the Governor of New York, Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, addressed a meeting at the Sheraton Park Hotel on July 26, 1968, in which he called for the creation of "a new world order". Rockefeller ignored the fact that it was Adolf Hitler who had preempted this title as "My New Order" for Europe.
The phrase was an attractive one to our politicians, as President Bush revealed when he addressed Congress on September 11, 1990, in a speech carried nationally on television, in which he called for,
"a new world... a world quite different from the one we have known ... a new world order."
He continued to reiterate this demand in subsequent addresses on television, declaring on January 29, 1991 in his annual State of the Union address,
"It is a big idea - a new world order, where diverse nations are drawn together in common to achieve the universal aspirations of mankind, peace and security, freedom, and the rule of law."
He repeated this toxin on February 1, 1991 in three separate addresses on the same day, in which he emphasized the new world order call.
He modestly refrained from pointing out that it was not a new phrase, and that it had been adopted by Congress in 1782 for the Great Seal of the United States, the incomplete pyramid with its occult eye, and the phrase "Novus Ordo Seclorum" beneath it, identifying this nation as committed to "a new world order" or a new order for the ages which apparently depended upon pyramid power for its fulfillment.
This symbol dated from 1776, when Adam Weishaupt, founder of the Illuminati sect, formulated a program remarkably similar to that of the world order conspirators today.
Weishaupt called for:
"Abolition of all monarchies and all ordered governments Abolition of private property and inheritances Abolition of patriotism and nationalism Abolition of family life and the institution of marriage, and the establishment of communal education for children Abolition of all religion."
"Abolition of all monarchies and all ordered governments
Abolition of private property and inheritances
Abolition of patriotism and nationalism
Abolition of family life and the institution of marriage, and the establishment of communal education for children
Abolition of all religion."
It was hardly accidental that the Rothchilds, when they hired Karl Marx and the League of Just Men to formulate a program, received the Communist Manifesto of 1848, which contained the above formula. Weishaupts activities had taken over the Freemason movement in 1782, which then became one of the vehicles for the enactment of this program.
Its true origin in ancient Oriental despotism was revealed on the editorial page of The Washington Post, January 5, 1992, when philosopher Nathan Gardels warned that,
"the ideal area for the new world order would be China, not the United States."
Gardels points out that Marxism was a product of Western philosophy, i.e., Hegel, but that a world order would produce Oriental despotism. He supported his thesis with quotes from the Japanese Prime Minister, who complained that "abstract notions of human rights" should not interfere with foreign policy, and from Chinese leaders who denounced demands for independent liberty as "garbage". President Bush modestly points out one of his aides, Brent Scowcroft, as the author of the magical phrase, "new world order".
People Magazine, November 25, 1991 said,
"Scowcrofts influence first became evident last year, several weeks after Iraqs invasion of Kuwait. Again, while fishing, he and Bush came up with the idea of "a new world order", an ambitious phrase meant to suggest a new United States foreign policy in the post-cold war era."
TO RULE THE WORLD
Again, quoting from Eustice Mullins The World Order - Our Secret Rulers.
Five men rule the world. This Council of Five consists of Baron Guy de Rothschild, Evelyn de Rothschild, George Pratt Shultz, Robert Roosa (from Bushs family firm of Brown Brothers Harriman) and one vacancy, at this writing. In the past several years, members of the Council who have died include Averill Harriman, Lord Victor Rothschild, and Prince Thurn und Taxis of Regensburg, Germany. None of them holds public office, but they choose who shall hold office in the nations. These five men comprise the apex of the pyramid of power, the World Order. We may ask, Why should there be a World Order? Is it not sufficient to hold absolute power in a single nation, or in a group of nations? The answer is NO, because of the nature of international travel, international trade, and international finance. International travel requires that a person may travel in peace from one nation to another, without being molested. Excepting cases of anarchy, revolution or war, this requirement can usually be met. International trade requires that traders of one nation can go to another nation, transact their business, and return with their goods or their profits. This requirement too is usually met. If not, the offended nation can exercise military force, as Great Britain did in its Opium Wars. It is the third requirement, international finance, which called into being the World Order. In earlier days, when international trade consisted of barter, payment in gold or silver or piracy, the seizure of goods by force, there was no need for a world arbiter to determine the value of instruments of trade. The development of paper money, stocks, bonds, acceptances and other negotiable instruments necessitated a power, able to exercise influence anywhere in the world, to declare that a piece of paper represented one billion dollars in real wealth, or even one dollar in real wealth. An entry on a computer, flashed from London to New York, states that someone owes five billion dollars to someone else. Without genuine power banking, no such sum could ever be collected, regardless of the factuality or morality of the debt. As anyone in the Mafia can tell you, you dont collect unless you are willing to break legs. The World Order is always prepared to break legs, and break them they do, by the millions.What would have happened to the earliest settlers in America if they had gone to the Indians and said, "Give us your goods and the deeds to your homes and lands. In return, we will give you this beautifully printed piece of paper." The Indians would, and did, attack them. If the settlers arrived with an army led by a Pizzaro or a Cortes, they took the lands without a piece of paper. The World Order rules with its pieces of paper, but behind every paper is a force which can be employed anywhere in the world. The force may be disguised by various subterfuges as international agreement, associations or other camouflage, but its base is always force.The World Order rules through a simple technique, Divide and Conquer (Dividere et impera). Every natural or unnatural division among people, every occasion for hatred or greed, is exploited and exacerbated to the limit. The polarization of racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. is accelerated by a flood of government decrees, originating in foundation "studies", which are designed solely to set American against American. Only in this way can the World Order maintain its iron grip on the daily lives of the people. The World Order also rules by the principle of 1984 - no groups of two or more people are allowed to gather unless the World Order has a representative present. If you start a club of dandelion fanciers, the Order will send someone who will be quietly helpful, avoid taking the front position, and who will offer to pay the rent of a meeting place or the printing of the minutes. In more radical groups, the Orders representative will be the first to suggest dynamiting a building, assassinating an official, or other violent action.The international terrorism of the Communist Party originated in a small club of German and French working men in Paris, dedicated to quiet reading and discussion, until Karl Marx joined. It was then converted into a revolutionary group. This one example explains the Orders determination to allow no group, however insignificant, to remain unmonitored. The World Order adopted the Hegelian dialectic, the dialectic of materialism, which regards the World as Power, and the World as Reality. It denies all other powers and all other realities. It functions on the principle of thesis, antithesis and a synthesis which results when the thesis and antithesis are thrown against each other for a predetermined outcome. Thus the World Order organizes and finances Jewish groups; it then organizes and finances anti-Jewish groups; it organizes Communist groups; it then organizes and finances anti-Communist groups. It is not necessary for the Order to throw these groups against each other; they seek each other out like heat-seeking missiles, and try to destroy each other. By controlling the size and resources of each group, the World Order can always predetermine the outcome.In this technique, members of the World Order are often identified with one side or the other. John Foster Dulles arranged financing for Hitler, but he was never a Nazi. David Rockefeller may be cheered in Moscow, but he is not a Communist. However, the Order always turns up on the winning side. A distinguishing trait of a member of the World Order, although it may not be admitted, is that he does not believe in anything but the World Order. Another distinguishing trait is his absolute contempt for anyone who actually believes in the tenets of Communism, Zionism, Christianity, or any national, religious or fraternal group, although the Order has members in controlling positions in all of these groups. If you are a sincere Christian, Zionist or Moslem, the World Order regards you as a moron unworthy of respect. You can and will be used, but you will never be respected.It has taken centuries of patient effort for the World Order to attain the power it exercises today. Its origins as an international force go back to the Phoenician slave-traders, continues through the Phnariot families of the Byzantine Empire, then the Venetian and Genoese traders and bankers of the Middle Ages, who moved into Spain and Portugal, and later into England and Scotland. By the 14th Century, the Genoese controlled the Scottish landlords. The Imperial Family of the Byzantine Empire, the Paleologues (meaning the Word) were attacked by the Gnostic faction, whose materialistic Aristotelian philosophy was the forerunner of Hegelian dialective and Marxism. The Paleologues devoutly believed in the Christian faith, as expressed by the Orthodox Rite. The materialistic Venetian and Genoese armies, with the aid of the Turkish "infidels", looted and conquered Constantinople, the legendary "City of God". The Byzantine survivors recreated their culture in Russia, with Moscow as "the third Rome". The plan to destroy the Orthodox Church with its Romanov (new Rome) leaders was the hidden goal of the First World War. The victors came away with one billion dollars of the Romanov fortune, after achieving the defeat of their hated enemy, the Orthodox Church.During the Middle Ages, European power centers coalesced into two camps, the Ghibellines, those who supported the Emperors Hohenstaufen family, (an Italian adaptation of Weinblingen, the name of the Hohenstaufen estate), and the Guelphs, from Welf, the German prince who competed with Frederick for control of the Holy Roman Empire. The Pope then allied himself with the Guelphs against the Ghibellines resulting in their victory. All of modern history stems directly from the struggle between these two powers. The Guelphs, also called the Neri, or Black Guelphs, and Black Nobility, were the Normans who conquered England in the 11th century; the Genoese who backed Robert Bruce in his conquest of Scotland, and who supported William of Orange in his seizure of the throne of England. Williams victory resulted in the formation of the Bank of England and the East India Company, which have ruled the world since the 17th century. Every subsequent coup detat, revolution and war has centered in the battle of the Guelphs to hold and enhance their power, which is now the World Order.The power of the Guelphs grew through their control of banking and international trade. It was extended through the Italian centers to the north of Florence, in Lombardy, which became great financial centers. All Italian bankers, including the Genoese, the Venetians, and Milanese, were referred to as "Lombards": Lombard, in German, means "papers of monetary value (Wertpapiere)"; the Lombards were bankers to the entire Medieval world. Modern history begins with the transfer of their operations north to Hamburg, Amsterdam, and finally to London.The great American fortunes originated with the Guelph slave trade to the colonies. Many of the slave traders doubled in piracy. Trinity Church, whose leading vestryman later was J.P. Morgan, was originally known as "the church of the pirates". Capt. William Kidd provided the material to build it in 1697, and a pew was reserved for him. He was arrested the next year, and hanged in chains at Newgate. In 1711, a slave market was set up on Wall Street near the church, and functioned there for many years.Two of the most powerful influences in the world today are the international drug trade, which began with the East India Co., and international espionage, which began with the Bank of England.
Five men rule the world. This Council of Five consists of Baron Guy de Rothschild, Evelyn de Rothschild, George Pratt Shultz, Robert Roosa (from Bushs family firm of Brown Brothers Harriman) and one vacancy, at this writing.
In the past several years, members of the Council who have died include Averill Harriman, Lord Victor Rothschild, and Prince Thurn und Taxis of Regensburg, Germany. None of them holds public office, but they choose who shall hold office in the nations.
These five men comprise the apex of the pyramid of power, the World Order. We may ask, Why should there be a World Order? Is it not sufficient to hold absolute power in a single nation, or in a group of nations? The answer is NO, because of the nature of international travel, international trade, and international finance.
International travel requires that a person may travel in peace from one nation to another, without being molested. Excepting cases of anarchy, revolution or war, this requirement can usually be met. International trade requires that traders of one nation can go to another nation, transact their business, and return with their goods or their profits.
This requirement too is usually met. If not, the offended nation can exercise military force, as Great Britain did in its Opium Wars. It is the third requirement, international finance, which called into being the World Order. In earlier days, when international trade consisted of barter, payment in gold or silver or piracy, the seizure of goods by force, there was no need for a world arbiter to determine the value of instruments of trade.
The development of paper money, stocks, bonds, acceptances and other negotiable instruments necessitated a power, able to exercise influence anywhere in the world, to declare that a piece of paper represented one billion dollars in real wealth, or even one dollar in real wealth. An entry on a computer, flashed from London to New York, states that someone owes five billion dollars to someone else. Without genuine power banking, no such sum could ever be collected, regardless of the factuality or morality of the debt.
As anyone in the Mafia can tell you, you dont collect unless you are willing to break legs. The World Order is always prepared to break legs, and break them they do, by the millions.What would have happened to the earliest settlers in America if they had gone to the Indians and said,
"Give us your goods and the deeds to your homes and lands. In return, we will give you this beautifully printed piece of paper."
The Indians would, and did, attack them. If the settlers arrived with an army led by a Pizzaro or a Cortes, they took the lands without a piece of paper. The World Order rules with its pieces of paper, but behind every paper is a force which can be employed anywhere in the world. The force may be disguised by various subterfuges as international agreement, associations or other camouflage, but its base is always force.The World Order rules through a simple technique, Divide and Conquer (Dividere et impera). Every natural or unnatural division among people, every occasion for hatred or greed, is exploited and exacerbated to the limit. The polarization of racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. is accelerated by a flood of government decrees, originating in foundation "studies", which are designed solely to set American against American.
Only in this way can the World Order maintain its iron grip on the daily lives of the people. The World Order also rules by the principle of 1984 - no groups of two or more people are allowed to gather unless the World Order has a representative present. If you start a club of dandelion fanciers, the Order will send someone who will be quietly helpful, avoid taking the front position, and who will offer to pay the rent of a meeting place or the printing of the minutes.
In more radical groups, the Orders representative will be the first to suggest dynamiting a building, assassinating an official, or other violent action.The international terrorism of the Communist Party originated in a small club of German and French working men in Paris, dedicated to quiet reading and discussion, until Karl Marx joined. It was then converted into a revolutionary group. This one example explains the Orders determination to allow no group, however insignificant, to remain unmonitored.
The World Order adopted the Hegelian dialectic, the dialectic of materialism, which regards the World as Power, and the World as Reality. It denies all other powers and all other realities.
It functions on the principle of thesis, antithesis and a synthesis which results when the thesis and antithesis are thrown against each other for a predetermined outcome. Thus the World Order organizes and finances Jewish groups; it then organizes and finances anti-Jewish groups; it organizes Communist groups; it then organizes and finances anti-Communist groups. It is not necessary for the Order to throw these groups against each other; they seek each other out like heat-seeking missiles, and try to destroy each other.
By controlling the size and resources of each group, the World Order can always predetermine the outcome.In this technique, members of the World Order are often identified with one side or the other. John Foster Dulles arranged financing for Hitler, but he was never a Nazi.
David Rockefeller may be cheered in Moscow, but he is not a Communist. However, the Order always turns up on the winning side. A distinguishing trait of a member of the World Order, although it may not be admitted, is that he does not believe in anything but the World Order. Another distinguishing trait is his absolute contempt for anyone who actually believes in the tenets of Communism, Zionism, Christianity, or any national, religious or fraternal group, although the Order has members in controlling positions in all of these groups.
If you are a sincere Christian, Zionist or Moslem, the World Order regards you as a moron unworthy of respect. You can and will be used, but you will never be respected.It has taken centuries of patient effort for the World Order to attain the power it exercises today. Its origins as an international force go back to the Phoenician slave-traders, continues through the Phnariot families of the Byzantine Empire, then the Venetian and Genoese traders and bankers of the Middle Ages, who moved into Spain and Portugal, and later into England and Scotland. By the 14th Century, the Genoese controlled the Scottish landlords.
The Imperial Family of the Byzantine Empire, the Paleologues (meaning the Word) were attacked by the Gnostic faction, whose materialistic Aristotelian philosophy was the forerunner of Hegelian dialective and Marxism. The Paleologues devoutly believed in the Christian faith, as expressed by the Orthodox Rite.
The materialistic Venetian and Genoese armies, with the aid of the Turkish "infidels", looted and conquered Constantinople, the legendary "City of God". The Byzantine survivors recreated their culture in Russia, with Moscow as "the third Rome". The plan to destroy the Orthodox Church with its Romanov (new Rome) leaders was the hidden goal of the First World War.
The victors came away with one billion dollars of the Romanov fortune, after achieving the defeat of their hated enemy, the Orthodox Church.During the Middle Ages, European power centers coalesced into two camps, the Ghibellines, those who supported the Emperors Hohenstaufen family, (an Italian adaptation of Weinblingen, the name of the Hohenstaufen estate), and the Guelphs, from Welf, the German prince who competed with Frederick for control of the Holy Roman Empire. The Pope then allied himself with the Guelphs against the Ghibellines resulting in their victory.
All of modern history stems directly from the struggle between these two powers.
The Guelphs, also called the Neri, or Black Guelphs, and Black Nobility, were the Normans who conquered England in the 11th century; the Genoese who backed Robert Bruce in his conquest of Scotland, and who supported William of Orange in his seizure of the throne of England. Williams victory resulted in the formation of the Bank of England and the East India Company, which have ruled the world since the 17th century.
Every subsequent coup detat, revolution and war has centered in the battle of the Guelphs to hold and enhance their power, which is now the World Order.The power of the Guelphs grew through their control of banking and international trade. It was extended through the Italian centers to the north of Florence, in Lombardy, which became great financial centers. All Italian bankers, including the Genoese, the Venetians, and Milanese, were referred to as "Lombards": Lombard, in German, means "papers of monetary value (Wertpapiere)"; the Lombards were bankers to the entire Medieval world. Modern history begins with the transfer of their operations north to Hamburg, Amsterdam, and finally to London.The great American fortunes originated with the Guelph slave trade to the colonies. Many of the slave traders doubled in piracy. Trinity Church, whose leading vestryman later was J.P. Morgan, was originally known as "the church of the pirates".
Capt. William Kidd provided the material to build it in 1697, and a pew was reserved for him. He was arrested the next year, and hanged in chains at Newgate. In 1711, a slave market was set up on Wall Street near the church, and functioned there for many years.Two of the most powerful influences in the world today are the international drug trade, which began with the East India Co., and international espionage, which began with the Bank of England.
QUALITY OF LIFE
In the 1969 book, Population, Evolution, and Birth Control: A Collage of Controversial Ideas, author Harrison Brown writes,
If we were willing to be crowded together closely enough, to eat foods which would bear little resemblance to the foods we eat today, and to be deprived of simple but satisfying luxuries such as fireplaces, gardens and lawns, a world population of 50 billion persons would not be out of the question. And if we really put our minds to the problem we could construct floating islands where people might live and where algae farms could function, and perhaps 100 billion persons could be provided for. If we set strict limits to physical activities so that caloric requirements could be kept at very low levels, perhaps we could provide for 200 billion persons.
If we were willing to be crowded together closely enough, to eat foods which would bear little resemblance to the foods we eat today, and to be deprived of simple but satisfying luxuries such as fireplaces, gardens and lawns, a world population of 50 billion persons would not be out of the question.
And if we really put our minds to the problem we could construct floating islands where people might live and where algae farms could function, and perhaps 100 billion persons could be provided for.
If we set strict limits to physical activities so that caloric requirements could be kept at very low levels, perhaps we could provide for 200 billion persons.
LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
In Michael Tobias book World War III - Population and the Biosphere At The End Of The Millennium, (published in 1994 by Bear & Co, Santa Fe, NM) [N.B.- does not appear to be available now] is written,
"It is estimated that every second more than twenty-eight people are born and ten die; that every hour, more than eleven-thousand newborns cry out. Each day more than 1 million human conceptions are believed to come about, resulting in some 350,000 new cases of venereal disease, and more than 150,000 abortions. Among those newborns, every day 35,000 will die by starvation, 26,000 of them children. Meanwhile, each twenty-four hours, the pace of war against the planet increases, sometimes in major affronts, other times imperceptibly, at least by our limited perceptual standards. That war includes the loss of 57 million tons of topsoil and eighty square miles of tropical forest and the creation of seventy square miles of virtually lifeless desert - every day. At current birth and death rates, the world is adding a Los Angeles every three weeks. If average human growth rates were to continue at their present course (the so-called "constant fertility variant") the worlds population would reach at least 10 billion by the year 2030, 20 billion by 2070, 40 billion by 2110, and 80 billion by the year 2150."
"It is estimated that every second more than twenty-eight people are born and ten die; that every hour, more than eleven-thousand newborns cry out.
Each day more than 1 million human conceptions are believed to come about, resulting in some 350,000 new cases of venereal disease, and more than 150,000 abortions. Among those newborns, every day 35,000 will die by starvation, 26,000 of them children.
Meanwhile, each twenty-four hours, the pace of war against the planet increases, sometimes in major affronts, other times imperceptibly, at least by our limited perceptual standards. That war includes the loss of 57 million tons of topsoil and eighty square miles of tropical forest and the creation of seventy square miles of virtually lifeless desert - every day.
At current birth and death rates, the world is adding a Los Angeles every three weeks.
If average human growth rates were to continue at their present course (the so-called "constant fertility variant") the worlds population would reach at least 10 billion by the year 2030, 20 billion by 2070, 40 billion by 2110, and 80 billion by the year 2150."
Go Back
