# Diplomacy by Deception - 06

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/diplomacy_deception/diplomacy_deception06.htm

DIPLOMACY BY DECEPTION
6 - Tavistock and "Operation Research" - Undeclared War The founder for the Tavistock Institute for Human Relations, John Rawlings Reese, was to perfect a system that would subvert and then control the thinking of human beings so that they could be channeled in any direction so desired by the Committee of 300, also known as the Olympians. It must be said that to do this, one must introduce an automated mentality into the bulk of the targeted population. This is an objective with very far-reaching implications nationally and internationally. The end result of Reese's objectives were and remain, control of all human life; its destruction when deemed desirable, whether it be through mass genocide or mass slavery. We are witnessing both today. One is the Global 2000 genocidal plan, which calls for the deaths of more of 500 million people by the year 2010; the other is slavery by an economic means. Both systems are fully operational and working side-by-side in today's America. Reese began his Tavistock experiments in 1921; it soon became clear to him that his system could be applied both domestically and militarily. Reese said that the solution to the problems he foresaw needed a ruthless approach, without concern for religious or moral values. He later added another area to his list that of nationalism. Reese is known to have studied the work of the Nine Unkown Men, as referred to in 1860 by the French writer Jacolliot. Among Jacolliot's remarks were that the Nine Unknown Men knew about the liberation of energy, sterilization by radiation, propaganda and psychological warfare, all of which were absolutely unheard of in that century. Jacolliot said that the technique of psychological warfare was "the When it became obvious that British politicians were bent on solving the country's economic problems by means of another war, Reese was given 80,000 British Army recruits to use as guinea pigs. Operation Research was the name given to his project, and basically, it was designed to develop a methodology (logistics) in military management that would make the best use of limited military resources sea, air and land defense systems against Britain's foreign enemies. Thus, the original program was a military-management one, but by 1946, Reese had developed Operation Research to the point that it could be applied as a civilian management program. Reese had "arrived," insofar as social engineering was concerned, but his work is concealed in top secret files at Tavistock. Technically, the Reese Tavistock manual, of which I have a copy, is a full declaration of war against the civilian population of any targeted country. Reese said that it had to be understood that "whenever any government, groups, persons in positions of power" use his methods without the consent of the people, it is understood by these governments or groups of people that conquest is the motive, and that domestic warfare exists between them and the public. Reese discovered that with social engineering comes the greater need for information that can be rapidly collected and correlated. One of the earlier statements attributed to Reese was the necessity to stay ahead of society and predict its moves by engineering situations. A big breakthrough for Reese and his social tinkerers came with the discovery of linear programming by George B. Danzig in 1947. This came at a time when Reese was engaged in a war with the American nation, a war which is still ongoing, and which was greatly facilitated by the invention of the transistor by Bardeen, Brittain and Shockley in 1948. Enter the Rockefellers, who gave a huge grant to Tavistock to enable Reese to press ahead with a study of the American economy, using Operation Research methods. Simultaneously, the Rockefeller Foundation gave Harvard University a four-year grant to create its own American economy model. The year was 1949, and Harvard pressed ahead with its own economic model, based on Tavistock's. The only stipulation Reese made as a condition of his cooperation with Harvard, was that Tavistock methods be followed throughout. These were based upon the Prudential Assurance Bombing Survey Study, which led to saturation bombing of German worker housing as a means of bringing about the capitulation of the German war machine. These methods were now ready to be applied in a civilian context. Reese made a detailed study of America's entry into WWI, which he deemed to be the beginning of the 20th century. Reese realized that for America to be seduced away from so-called "isolationism," American thinking would have to be drastically changed. Woodrow Wilson had dragged America into European affairs in 1916 with corruption and corrupting policies. Wilson sent American forces to fight on Europe's battlefields, in spite of the warnings issued by the Founding Fathers, to stay out of foreign entanglements. The Committee of 300, was determined to keep the United States entangled in European and indeed world affairs forever after. Wilson did not change Europe, but Europe changed America. The banishing of power politics, which is what Wilson thought he could do, was not possible, because power is politics and politics is economic power. This has been so since the earliest recorded history of politics: those of the city-states of the Sumer and Akkad of 5,000 years ago, right down to Hitler and the USSR. Economics is only an extension of a natural energy system, but that system, the elitists have always said, belongs under their control. In order for an economy to be under the control of elite body, it has to be an economy that is predictable and totally manipulatable. This is what the Harvard model set out to accomplish, backed by the social dynamics of the Reese Operation Research. Reese had discovered that to achieve total predictability in population groups, the elements of society had to be brought under control under a yoke of slavery, and dispossessed of the means of discovering their predicament, so that not knowing how to unite or a joint defense, they would not know where to turn to for help. That Tavistock methodology is at work can be found everywhere in the United States. People, not knowing where to turn to understand the predicament they find themselves in, turn to the worst place of all for supposed help: the government. The Harvard Economic Research Project, which began in 1948, embodied all the Reese principles, which, in turn, came out of the Prudential Bombing Survey and Operations Research. By joining forces, the elite felt that a means of controlling a nation's economy and the population was now available with the coming of the computer age both a blessing and a terrible curse for mankind. All science is only a means to an end, and man is knowledge (information), which ends in control. Who the beneficiaries of that control are was decided by the Committee of 300 and its antecedents 300 years ago. The war waged against the American people by Tavistock is now 47 years old and shows no signs of letting up. As energy is the key to all life on this planet, through diplomacy by deception and outright strong-arm methods, the Committee has gained control of most energy resources. The Committee, by deception and dissembling, has also gained control of social energy, which is expressed in economic terms. Provided that the ordinary citizen could be kept ignorant of the real economic methods of bookkeeping, then the citizens would be doomed to lead a life of economic slavery. This is what has happened. We, the people, gave our consent to the economic controllers of our lives and became slaves of the elite. As Reese once said, people who will not use their intelligence have no better rights than dumb animals who have no intelligence at all. Economic slavery is essential if good order is to be maintained, and the ruling class may enjoy the fruits produced by slave labor. Reese and his team of social scientists and social engineers went to work on the American public by learning first, then understanding, and then attacking, the social energy (economics) and the mental and physical weaknesses of the nation. Earlier, I said that the computer is both a blessing and a curse for mankind. On the positive side, there are many emerging economists who, through the use of computers, are starting to wake up to the fact that the Harvard model is a blueprint for economic slavery. If this new breed of economic programmers can get its message out to the American people fast enough, the New World Order (of slavery) can still be stopped. This is where diplomacy by deception plays such a vast role in subverting through the media, education and influencing the way we think by distracting us with issues of absolutely no importance, while the truly important issues are glossed over. In a major policy study meeting ordered by the Committee of 300 in 1954, it was made clear to economic experts, high-ranking government officials, bankers, and leaders of commerce and industry, that the war against the American people was to be stepped up. Robert McNamara was one of those who said that, because peace and good order was being threatened by an out-of-control population, the wealth of the nation had to be moved away from the undisciplined masses and into the control of the self-disciplined few.
McNamara savagely attacked overpopulation, which he said threatened to change the world in which we live and make it ungovernable:
"We can begin with the most critical problems of population growth. As I have pointed out elsewhere, short of nuclear war itself, it is the gravest issue that the world faces in the decades ahead. If current trends continue, the world as a whole will not reach replacement level fertility - in effect an average of two children per family - until about the year 2020. That means that the world's population would finally stabilize at about 10 billion, compared with today's 4.3 billion. "We call it stabilized, but what kind of stability would be possible? Can we assume that the levels of poverty, hunger, stress, crowding and frustration that such a situation could cause in the developing nations which by then would contain 9 out of 10 human beings on earth would be likely to assure social stability? Or, for that matter, military stability? "It is not a world that any of us would want to live in. Is such a world inevitable? It is not but there are only two possible ways in which a world of 10 billion people can be averted. Either the current birthrate must come down more quickly, or the current death rates must go up. There is no other way. "There are, of course, many ways in which the death rates can go up. In a thermonuclear age, war can accomplish it very quickly and decisively. Famine and disease are nature's ancient checks on population growth, and neither one has disappeared from the scene."
In 1979 McNamara repeated his message to the leading bankers from around the world, and Thomas Enders, a high-ranking State Department official, made the following statement:
"There is a single theme behind all of our work. We must reduce population growth. Either they do it our way, through nice, clean methods, or they will get the kind of a mess that we have in El Salvador, or Iran, or Beirut. Once population growth is out of control, it requires authoritarian government, even fascism, to reduce it. Civil war can help things, but it would have to be greatly expanded. To reduce population quickly, you have to pull all males into the fighting and kill significant numbers of fertile, child-bearing-age females."
The solution to the problem of a world in which the elite would not want to live is mass genocide. The Club of Rome was ordered to produce a blueprint that would wipe out 500 million of excess population. The plan was called Global 2000, and it was activated by spreading the AIDS virus throughout Africa and Brazil. Global 2000 was officially accepted as U.S. policy by President James Carter. The conference members agreed that the,
"low-class element of society must be brought under total control, trained and assigned to duties at an early age, which can be accomplished by the quality of education, which must be the poorest of the poor. The lower-classes must be trained to accept their position, long before they have an opportunity to query it." "Technically, children must be 'orphaned' in day care centers under government control. With such an initial handicap, the lower-classes will have little hope of upward mobility away from their assigned positions in life. The form of slavery we have in mind is essential for good social order, peace and tranquility. "We have the resources to attack the vitality, options and mobility of the individuals in society by knowing through our social scientist, understanding and manipulating and attacking their sources of social energy (income), and therefore, their physical, mental and emotional strengths and weaknesses. The general public refuses to improve its own mentality. It has become a herd of proliferating barbarians, and a blight on the face of the earth. "By measuring the economic habits by which the sheep try to run from their problems and escape from reality via the medium of 'entertainment', it is absolutely possible, applying Operation Research methods, to predict the probable combination shocks (created events) which are necessary to bring about complete control and subjugation of the population by subverting the economy. The strategy includes the use of amplifiers (advertising), and when we speak on television in the manner that a ten year old can relate to, then because of the suggestions made, that person will purchase that production impulse, the next time he comes across it in a store. "The balance of power will provide the stability that the world of the 21st century is likely to achieve, rent as it will be, by passionate tribalism and by such seemingly insoluble issues like that posed by mass migration from the South to the North, and from farm to city. There may be mass transfers of population, such as those between Greece and Turkey in the aftermath of the First World War; really mass murders. It will be a time of troubles, in need of a unifier; an Alexander or Mohammed. "A great change that will come about as a result of emerging conflicts between peoples who live side by side and which will, by their intensity, take primacy over their other conflicts is that political rivalry will be within regions, rather than between them. This will bring about a turning back from global politics. After a decade in which the U.S. and the Soviet Union dueled across oceans, the powers will focus on protecting themselves against forces on their frontiers or within them. "The American people do not know economic science and care little about it, hence, they are always ripe for war. They cannot avoid war, notwithstanding their religious morality, nor can they find in religion the solution to their earthly problems. They are knocked out of shape by economic experts who cause Shockwaves that wreck budgets and buying habits. The American public is yet to realize that we control their buying habits."
There we have it. Split up nations into tribal factions, keep the populace struggling to make a living and concerned with regional conflicts so that they will never have an opportunity to get a clear view of what is going on, let alone challenge it, and at the same time, bring about a drastic lowering of the world's population.
We see this happening in the former Yugoslavia, where the country is being forced into small, tribal entities, and we see it in America, where the average family has both parents working, and yet cannot make ends meet. These parents do not have time to pay careful attention to how they are being deceived and led into economic slavery. It is all a set-up. Today, we observe if we have the time that the United States stand at the threshold of progressive dissolution as the result of Tavistock's silent "control" war against the American nation. The Bush presidency was a total disaster, and the Clinton presidency will be even more of a shock. This is the way the blueprint is drawn, and we, the people, are fast losing faith in our institutions and our ability to remake America into what it was intended to be a very far cry from what it is now overrun by foreign people who threaten to engulf the nation a South-North invasion right here in our own country. We have surrendered our real wealth for a promise of greater wealth, instead of compensation in real terms. We have fallen into the toils of the Babylonian system of "capitalism," which isn't capitalism at all, but an appearance of capital, as typified by currency which is in fact negative capital. This is deceptive and destructive. The U.S. dollar has the appearance of currency, but it is in fact a token of debt and indebtedness. Currency as we know it will be balanced by war and genocidewhich is what is happening in front of our very eyes. Total goods and services is real capital, and currency can be printed up to this level, but not beyond it. Once currency is printed beyond the level of goods and services, it becomes a destructive, subtractive force. War is the only way to "balance" the system by killing those creditors, which the people docilely gave up true value in exchange for inflated currency. Energy (economics) is the key to all earthly activities. Hence the often repeated statement I have made that all wars are economic in origin. The thrust of the One World Government-New World Order must, of necessity, be to obtain a monopoly of all goods and services, raw materials, and control over the manner in which economics is taught. Only in this framework can the New World Order gain full control. In the United States, we are constantly helping the One World Government to obtain control of the world's natural resources by being tricked into giving part of our income for this purpose. It is called "foreign aid." Tavistock's Operation Research project states as follows:
"Our research has established that the simplest mode of gaining control of people is to keep them undisciplined and in the dark of basic systems and principles while at the same time keeping them disorganized, confused and distracted by issues which are of relatively little import "In addition to our less direct long-range penetration methods, this can be accomplished by a disengagement of mental activities and providing low quality programs of public education in mathematics, logic, system designs and economics and by discouraging technical creativity. "Our mode calls for emotional stimulus, increased use of amplifiers which induce self-indulgence, whether direct (television programs) or advertising. We at Tavistock have found that the best way to accomplish the goal is through an unremitting and unrelenting emotional affrontation and attack (mental rape) through a constant barrage of sex, violence, wars, racial strife both in the electronic and print media. This steady diet could be called 'mental junk food'. "Of primary importance is the revision of history and law and subjecting the populace to the deviant creation, thus shifting thinking from personal needs to constructed, fabricated outside priorities. The general rule is that there is profit in confusion, the greater the confusion, the greater the profit. One of the ways in which this can be accomplished is to create problems and then offer solutions. "It is essential to divide the people, keep the adults' attention away from real issues and overcome their thinking with matters of relatively little importance. The young must be kept ignorant of mathematics; the proper teaching of economics and history must never be made available. Keep all groups so occupied with an endless round of issues and problems that they have no time to think clearly, and here, we rely on entertainment which should not reach beyond the mental capacity of a child in the sixth grade. "When government is able to seize private property without just compensation, it is certain that people are ripe for surrender and consenting to slavery and legal encroachment. Energy sources which support a primitive economy are a supply of raw materials, the consent of people to labor, and assume a certain place, position, level in the social structure viz., provide labor at various levels of the structure. "Each class, therefore, guarantees its level of income and hence controls the class immediately below it, thereby preserving the class structure. One of the best examples of this was found in the caste system in India, in which rigid control was exercised, ensuring that upward mobility which could threaten the elite at the top, was constrained. In this method is security and stability attained, and also a government from the top. "The sovereignty of the elite is threatened when the lower classes, through communications and education become informed and envious of the power and possessions of the class above them. As some of them become better educated, they seek to rise higher through a real knowledge of economics-energy. This presents a real threat to the sovereignty of the elite class. "It follows that the rise of the lower classes must be postponed long enough for the elite class to achieve energy (economic) dominance, labor by consent becoming a lesser economic source. Until such economic dominance is achieved to the fullest extent possible, the consent of people to labor and let others handle their affairs has to be taken into account. Failure to achieve this goal would result in interference in the final transfer of energy sources (economic wealth) to the control of the elite. "Until such times, it is essential to recognize that public consent is still the essential key to the release of energy in the process of economic amplification. A consent of energy release system is therefore vital. Artificial security must be provided in the absence of the mother's womb, which can take the form of withdrawal, protective devices and shelters. Such shells will provide a stable environment for stable and unstable activity, and provide a shelter for the evolutionary processes of growth, that is to say, survival in a shelter that gives defensive protection against offensive activities. "It applies equally to the elite and the lower classes, but there is a definite difference in the manner in which both these classes approach the solution of the problem. Our social science scientists have made out a very compelling case that the reason why individuals create a political structure is because they have a subconscious desire to perpetuate their childhood-dependency relationship. "In the simplest of terms, what the subconscious longing demands is an earthly god to eliminate risks from their lives, put food on the table and pat them on the back in a comforting way when things don't go well. The demand for an earthly problem-solver-risk-eliminator is insatiable, which has given rise to a substitute earthly god: the politician. The insatiable public demand for 'protection' is met by promises, but the politician actually delivers little or nothing on his promises."Ever present in humans is a desire to control or subdue others who disturb their daily existence. However, they are unable to cope with the moral and religious issues such actions would raise, so they give the task to professional 'hit men', which we collectively call politicians. "The services of politicians are engaged for a number of reasons, which, in the main are listed in the following order: 1) To obtain the longed-for security without managing it. 2) To obtain action without the need to act, and without having to give the desired action thought. 3) To avoid responsibility for their intentions. 4) To obtain the benefits of reality without exerting the necessary discipline of learning. "We can readily divide a nation into two sub-categories, the Political Sub Nation and the Docile Sub-Nation. The politicians hold quasi-military jobs, of which the lowest is the police force, next come attorneys. The presidential level is run by the international bankers. The docile sub-nation finances the political machine by consent, that is to say, through taxation. The sub nation remains attached to the political sub-nation, the latter feeding off it and growing stronger, until the day comes when it is strong enough to devour its creator, the people."
"Our research has established that the simplest mode of gaining control of people is to keep them undisciplined and in the dark of basic systems and principles while at the same time keeping them disorganized, confused and distracted by issues which are of relatively little import "In addition to our less direct long-range penetration methods, this can be accomplished by a disengagement of mental activities and providing low quality programs of public education in mathematics, logic, system designs and economics and by discouraging technical creativity. "Our mode calls for emotional stimulus, increased use of amplifiers which induce self-indulgence, whether direct (television programs) or advertising. We at Tavistock have found that the best way to accomplish the goal is through an unremitting and unrelenting emotional affrontation and attack (mental rape) through a constant barrage of sex, violence, wars, racial strife both in the electronic and print media. This steady diet could be called 'mental junk food'. "Of primary importance is the revision of history and law and subjecting the populace to the deviant creation, thus shifting thinking from personal needs to constructed, fabricated outside priorities. The general rule is that there is profit in confusion, the greater the confusion, the greater the profit. One of the ways in which this can be accomplished is to create problems and then offer solutions. "It is essential to divide the people, keep the adults' attention away from real issues and overcome their thinking with matters of relatively little importance. The young must be kept ignorant of mathematics; the proper teaching of economics and history must never be made available. Keep all groups so occupied with an endless round of issues and problems that they have no time to think clearly, and here, we rely on entertainment which should not reach beyond the mental capacity of a child in the sixth grade. "When government is able to seize private property without just compensation, it is certain that people are ripe for surrender and consenting to slavery and legal encroachment. Energy sources which support a primitive economy are a supply of raw materials, the consent of people to labor, and assume a certain place, position, level in the social structure viz., provide labor at various levels of the structure. "Each class, therefore, guarantees its level of income and hence controls the class immediately below it, thereby preserving the class structure. One of the best examples of this was found in the caste system in India, in which rigid control was exercised, ensuring that upward mobility which could threaten the elite at the top, was constrained. In this method is security and stability attained, and also a government from the top. "The sovereignty of the elite is threatened when the lower classes, through communications and education become informed and envious of the power and possessions of the class above them. As some of them become better educated, they seek to rise higher through a real knowledge of economics-energy. This presents a real threat to the sovereignty of the elite class. "It follows that the rise of the lower classes must be postponed long enough for the elite class to achieve energy (economic) dominance, labor by consent becoming a lesser economic source. Until such economic dominance is achieved to the fullest extent possible, the consent of people to labor and let others handle their affairs has to be taken into account. Failure to achieve this goal would result in interference in the final transfer of energy sources (economic wealth) to the control of the elite. "Until such times, it is essential to recognize that public consent is still the essential key to the release of energy in the process of economic amplification. A consent of energy release system is therefore vital. Artificial security must be provided in the absence of the mother's womb, which can take the form of withdrawal, protective devices and shelters. Such shells will provide a stable environment for stable and unstable activity, and provide a shelter for the evolutionary processes of growth, that is to say, survival in a shelter that gives defensive protection against offensive activities. "It applies equally to the elite and the lower classes, but there is a definite difference in the manner in which both these classes approach the solution of the problem. Our social science scientists have made out a very compelling case that the reason why individuals create a political structure is because they have a subconscious desire to perpetuate their childhood-dependency relationship. "In the simplest of terms, what the subconscious longing demands is an earthly god to eliminate risks from their lives, put food on the table and pat them on the back in a comforting way when things don't go well. The demand for an earthly problem-solver-risk-eliminator is insatiable, which has given rise to a substitute earthly god: the politician. The insatiable public demand for 'protection' is met by promises, but the politician actually delivers little or nothing on his promises."Ever present in humans is a desire to control or subdue others who disturb their daily existence. However, they are unable to cope with the moral and religious issues such actions would raise, so they give the task to professional 'hit men', which we collectively call politicians. "The services of politicians are engaged for a number of reasons, which, in the main are listed in the following order:
1) To obtain the longed-for security without managing it. 2) To obtain action without the need to act, and without having to give the desired action thought. 3) To avoid responsibility for their intentions. 4) To obtain the benefits of reality without exerting the necessary discipline of learning.
1) To obtain the longed-for security without managing it.
2) To obtain action without the need to act, and without having to give the desired action thought.
3) To avoid responsibility for their intentions.
4) To obtain the benefits of reality without exerting the necessary discipline of learning.
"We can readily divide a nation into two sub-categories, the Political Sub Nation and the Docile Sub-Nation. The politicians hold quasi-military jobs, of which the lowest is the police force, next come attorneys. The presidential level is run by the international bankers. The docile sub-nation finances the political machine by consent, that is to say, through taxation. The sub nation remains attached to the political sub-nation, the latter feeding off it and growing stronger, until the day comes when it is strong enough to devour its creator, the people."
When read in conjunction with the systems outlined in my book, the "Committee of 300", it is relatively easy to see just how far Tavistock's Operation Research project has succeeded, and nowhere more so than in the United States.
Recent statistics show that 75 percent of sixth grade school children were unable to pass what was called "the maths test." The maths test consisted of elementary simple arithmetic, which ought to tell us something. Mathematics did not come into the test at all. Cause for alarm?
You be the judge.
Back to Contents
Back to Tavistock Institute
