# ECB Report Says Bitcoin Is 'A Threat' to Central Banking

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalbanking277.htm

by Michael Suede
October 31, 2012
from
LibertarianNews Website
European Central Bank Report On Bitcoin:
Its Likely To Grow And It Poses Risks
The European Central Bank (ECB) recently issued
a
report on digital currencies.
The report largely revolves around
Bitcoins and
Linden Dollars, and provides a review of the currencies from the perspective
of central bankers. Unsurprisingly, they found the currencies to pose
risks that potentially require future regulation.
Heres a few of the highlights that deserve some
commentary:
In an extreme case, virtual currencies could
have a substitution effect on central bank money if they become widely
accepted.
The increase in the use of virtual money
might lead to a decrease in the use of real money, thereby also
reducing the cash needed to conduct the transactions generated by
nominal income. In this regard, a widespread substitution of central
bank money by privately issued virtual currency could significantly
reduce the size of central banks balance sheets, and thus also their
ability to influence the short-term interest rates.
Central banks would need to look at
their existing tools to deal with this risk (for instance, trying to
impose minimum reserve requirements on virtual currency schemes).
The substitution effect would also make it
more difficult to measure monetary aggregates and, as a consequence,
would affect the relationship between the monetary aggregates as
measured and inflation, which is used to gauge risks to price stability
in the medium to longer term.
Lastly, on this second aspect, when virtual
money is created outside the realm of the central bank and virtual
credit can be extended, this may have implications for the way interest
rate decisions by the central bank are transmitted through the economy
and the central banks control over money and credit developments could
become less effective.
Obviously these are not a risks to people like
you and me, but they are risks to central bankers, state actors and others
who derive their income from forcibly imposed central bank monopoly money
interest rate manipulation.
The paragraphs are rather startling in their
explicitness.
They are essentially saying that if enough
people transacted in Bitcoins instead of dollars or Euros, the central banks
would lose control over their ability to manipulate interest rates. Indeed,
the entire point of Bitcoin is to provide a currency that cannot be
manipulated to suit the whims of commercial banks, central bankers and
politicians.
Of course, the question of why central bankers
should have such power in the first place is never addressed in the report.
Central bankers ARE central planners - straight out of the Soviet Union.
They have the power to direct massive swaths of
resources throughout the economies under their control by manipulating
interest rates to suit their whims. In fact, central banks were so important
to communism that Karl Marx enshrined them as a core plank of the
Communist
Manifesto.
Central bank manipulation of interest rates has
absolutely nothing to do with free market economics, and everything to do
with central planning and control by a power elite.
Central banks manipulate interest rates by
essentially printing funny money into existence.
Professor Roger Garrison
details the deleterious effects of central bank manipulation of interest
rates on economies in this lecture:
Is it surprising that central bankers would be
aghast at a currency that they couldnt print into existence?
The report goes on to list some more problems
associated with virtual currencies from the perspective of the central
planners:
In these schemes, the settlement asset is
the virtual currency, and therefore the finality and irrevocability of
payments cannot be ensured.
Only central bank money can do so, because
central banks present no default risk and act as lender of last resort
to the member of the system in order to stop any possible chain reaction
resulting from payment incidents or unforeseeable liquidity shortages.
Virtual currencies cannot therefore be
considered to be safe money, since the likelihood of the asset retaining
its value for the holder, and hence its acceptability to others as a
means of payment cannot be ensured. It simply relies on the
creditworthiness of the issuer of the settlement asset.
The level of safety is clearly below that of
commercial bank money, as commercial banks are subject to prudential
requirements and are supervised in order to reduce the likelihood of
default, thereby improving the safety of claims on these institutions.
This is a fundamental risk relating to
virtual currency schemes, which do not involve any kind of supervision
of the settlement institution or oversight of the system, and therefore
no one is accountable for their acts. Nor is there any kind of
investor/depositor protection scheme in place.
As a consequence, users bear all of these
risks themselves.
I find this section to be hilarious.
First off, its pretty much a bucket of lies as
far as Bitcoin is concerned, although some of these criticisms may apply to
other forms of virtual currencies. The fact that they make no distinction
between various types of virtual currencies with their criticisms speaks
volumes about their motives.
For starters, the finality and irrevocability of
Bitcoin transactions is 100% assured by the cryptographic algorithms and
software architecture the network uses. It is impossible to have chargebacks
with Bitcoin.
They claim that virtual currencies cannot be
considered to be safe money because their acceptability to others as a means
of payment cannot be ensured, while at the same time the U.S. central bank
has
doubled the monetary base in less than a year, pushed interest rates
down to zero and bought up so many government bonds with funny money that a
third of every dollar the U.S. state spends is based on the issuance of
new debt.
And lets not forget China, India, Iran and
Russia using gold to
conduct trade with each other, bypassing our petrodollar
hegemony entirely.
Its a joke for them to argue that central bank
issued money is somehow safer than currencies like Bitcoin, which cannot be
subjected to any such insane manipulations by sociopathic bankers and
politicians.
The U.S. and Euro zone are not immune from the
economic laws of the universe. If they continue debasing their money the way
they have been, eventually the rest of the world will get fed up with their
nonsense and stop taking their funny money in exchange for goods and
services.
Further, this section presents a bit of a red
herring. They are claiming that virtual currencies rely on
the creditworthiness of the issuer of the settlement asset (virtual
currency), which is ridiculous, at least as far as Bitcoin is concerned.
Bitcoin, like gold, has no counterparty risk.
The report concludes:
If the use of virtual currency schemes grows
considerably, incidents which attract press coverage could have negative
impacts on the reputations of central banks, if the public perceives
the incidents as being caused, in part, by central banks not doing their
jobs properly.
As a consequence, this risk should be
considered when assessing the overall risk situation of central banks.
In other words, if there is a major incident,
like a Bitcoin exchange being hacked and robbed, the bankers are concerned
this might tarnish their image, and therefore, they should seek to regulate
Bitcoin based on this possible misperception by the public that somehow the
central banks werent doing their job.
Seriously? They consider this to be a valid
reason as to why they should regulate a private currency market?
None of the criticisms of virtual currencies in
the report surprised me in the slightest. As you can see, they arent
concerned with anything remotely related to free market economics, property
rights, free trade, etc..
The only thing they are concerned about is a
loss of their own power, which leads them to suggest that regulation of
virtual currencies by central banks may be necessary in the future.
I hope you can see that regulations have
nothing to do with your best interest, but rather they always are geared
toward the interest of those in power.
Post script
The ECB cites Jon Matonis article entitled Why
are Libertarians Against Bitcoin? in which Matonis heavily cites my
work. Its nice to know that the people at the ECB are taking Matonis and I
seriously.
