# False Flagging the World towards War - The CIA Weaponizes Hollywood

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_falseflag24.htm

by Larry Chin December 27, 2014 from GlobalResearch Website
Spanish version
Almost all wars begin with false flag operations. The coming conflicts in North Korea and Russia are no exception. Mass public hysteria is being manufactured to justify aggression against Moscow and Pyongyang, in retaliation for acts attributed to the North Korean and Russian governments, but orchestrated and carried out by the CIA and the Pentagon.
The false flagging of North Korea - CIA weaponizes Hollywood The campaign of aggression against North Korea, from the hacking of Sony and the crescendo of noise over the film, The Interview, bears all the markings of a CIA false flag operation. The hacking and alleged threats to moviegoers has been blamed entirely on North Korea, without a shred of credible evidence beyond unsubstantiated accusations by the FBI. Pyongyang's responsibility has not been proven. But it has already been officially endorsed, and publicly embraced as fact. The idea of "America under attack by North Korea" is a lie. The actual individuals of the mysterious group responsible for the hacking remain conveniently unidentified. A multitude of possibilities - Sony insiders, hackers-for-hire, generic Internet vandalism - have not been explored in earnest.
The more plausible involvement of US spying agencies - the CIA, the NSA, etc. , their overwhelming technological capability and their peerless hacking and surveillance powers - remains studiously ignored. Who benefits?
It is illogical for Pyongyang to have done it. Isolated, impoverished North Korea, which has wanted improved relations with the United States for years (to no avail), gains nothing by cyberattacking the United States with its relatively weak capabilities, and face the certainty of overwhelming cyber and military response.
On the other hand, Washington benefits greatly from any action that leads to regime change in North Korea. But discussion about Pyongyang's involvement - or lack of - risks missing the larger point. This project, from the creation of The Interview to the well-orchestrated international incident, has been guided by the CIA, the Pentagon, and the State Department from the start. It is propaganda. It is a weapon of psychological warfare. It is an especially perverted example of military-intelligence manipulation of popular culture for the purpose of war. There is nothing funny about any of it. The Interview was made with the direct and open involvement of CIA and Rand Corporation operatives for the express purpose of destabilizing North Korea.
Star and co-director Seth Rogen has admitted that he worked,
"directly with people who work in the government as consultants, who I'm convinced are in the CIA".
Originally conceived to be a plot taking place in an "unnamed country", Sony Pictures co-chairman Michael Lynton, who also sits on the board of the Rand Corporation, encouraged the film makers to make the movie overtly about murdering Kim Jong-Un.
Bruce Bennett, the Rand Corporation's North Korean specialist, also had an active role, expressing enthusiasm that the film would assist regime change and spark South Korean action against Pyongyang.
Other government figures from the State Department, even operatives connected to Hillary Clinton, read the script. The infantile, imbecilic, tasteless, reckless idiots involved with The Interview, including the tasteless Rogen and co-director Evan Goldberg, worked with these military-intelligence thugs for months. "Hung out" with them.
They do not seem to have had any problem being the political whores for these Langley death merchants. In fact, they had fun doing it. They seem not to give a damn, or even half a damn, that the CIA and the Pentagon have used them, and co-opted the film for an agenda far bigger than the stupid movie itself.
All they seem to care about was that they are getting publicity, and more publicity, and got to make a stupid movie. Idiots. The CIA has now succeeded in setting off a wave of anti-North Korea war hysteria across America.
Witness the ignorant squeals and cries from ignorant Americans about how,
"we can't let North Korea blackmail us", "we can't let Kim take away our free speech".
Listen to the ridiculous debate over whether Sony has the "courage" to release the film to "stand up to the evil North Koreans" who would "blackmail America" and "violate the rights" of idiot filmgoers, who now see it as a "patriotic duty" to see the film. These mental midgets - their worldviews shaped by the CIA culture ministry with its endorsed pro-war entertainment, violent video games, and gung-ho shoot em ups - are hopelessly brain-curdled, irretrievably lost. Nihilistic and soulless, as well as stupid, most Americans have no problem seeing Kim Jong-Un killed, on screen or in reality.
This slice of ugly America is the CIA's finest post-9/11 army: violent, hate-filled, easily manipulated, eager to obey sheeple who march to whatever drumbeat they set. And then there are the truly dumb, fools who are oblivious to most of reality, who would say "hey lighten up, it's only a comedy" and "it's only a movie". Naïve, entitled, exceptionalist Americans think the business of the war - the murderous agenda they and their movie are helping the CIA carry out - is all just a game. The CIA's business is death, and that there are actual assassination plans in the files of the CIA, targeting heads of state.
Kim Jong-Un is undoubtedly on a real assassination list. This is no funny, either.
The real act of war The provocative, hostile diplomatic stance of the Obama administration speaks for itself. Washington wanted to spark an international incident.
It wants regime change in Pyongyang, does not care what North Korea or China think, and does not fear anything North Korea will do about it. On the other hand, imagine if a film were about the assassination of Benjamin Netanyahu and the toppling of the government in Tel Aviv. Such a film, if it would ever be permitted even in script form, would be stopped cold.
If it made it through censors that "magically" never slowed down The Interview (and yes, there is censorship in America, a lot of it) Obama would personally fly to Tel Aviv to apologize. At the very least, Washington would issue statements distancing themselves from the film and its content. Not so in the case of The Interview. Because American elites actually want the Kim family murdered. Despite providing no proof of North Korean involvement, President Barack Obama promised a "proportional response". Promptly, North Korea's Internet was mysteriously shut down for a day. Unless one is naïve to believe in this coincidence, all signs point to US spy agencies (CIA, NSA, etc.) or hackers working on behalf of Washington and Langley. Given the likelihood that North Korea had nothing to do with either the hacking of Sony, the initial pulling of the movie (a big part of the publicity stunt, that was not surprisingly reversed) or the "blackmailing" of moviegoers, the shutting down of North Korea's Internet was therefore a unilateral, unprovoked act of war.
Washington has not officially taken responsibility. For reasons of plausible denial, it never will. Perhaps it was a dry run. A message. The US got to test how easily it can take down North Korea's grid. As we witnessed, given overwhelming technological advantage, it was very easy. And when a war against Pyongyang begins in earnest, American forces will know exactly what they will do. The US is flexing its Asia-Pacific muscles, sending a message not only to Pyongyang, but to China, a big future target.
Some of the other muscle-flexing in recent months included the anti-Beijing protests in Hong Kong (assisted by the CIA and the US State Department), ongoing provocations in the South China Sea over disputed oil, and new defense agreements that place new anti-missile systems and missile-guided naval vessels to the region. The bottom line is that America has once again been mobilized into supporting a new war that could take place soon. The CIA and Sony have successfully weaponized a stupid movie, making it into a cause and a battle cry. If and when bombs fall on North Korea, blood will be on the hands of the makers of The Interview, every single executive who allowed it to be made, and the hordes who paid to see it. If America were a decent, sane society, The Interview would be exposed, roundly denounced, boycotted and shunned. Instead it is celebrated. The CIA should be condemned. Instead, Seth Rogen hangs out with them.
America, increasingly dysfunctional, loves them. Obeys them.
The false flagging of Russia Regarding The Interview, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich issued a statement in sympathy with North Korea, correctly calling the film's concept aggressive and scandalous, and decried the US retaliatory response as counterproductive and dangerous to international relations. Of course. Washington has no interest in improved international relations. The Russians should know. Like Kim Jong-Un, Vladimir Putin has been vilified, demonized and false-flagged, incessantly. If Kim is today's object of ridicule, Putin is Evil Incarnate. Consider the hysterical, desperate provocations by Washington in recent months. A US-NATO coup, engineered by the CIA, toppled the government of Ukraine, planting a pro-US neo-Nazi criminal apparatus on Russia's doorstep. The CIA and its worldwide network of propagandists pinned the blame on Putin and Russia for aggression, and for obstructing "democracy". The MH-17 jetliner is downed by Ukrainian operatives, with the support of the CIA, Mi-6, etc. etc. This false flag operation was blamed on Russia - "Putin's Missile". The US and NATO are still trying to pin these murders on Putin. The war against the Islamic State - a massive CIA false flag operation - seeks to topple with the the Assad government as well as to militarily counter Russia.
The ongoing Anglo-American conquest of regional oil and gas supplies, and energy transport routes is also aimed at checkmating Russia and China across the region.
The US and NATO have attacked the Russian federation with sanctions. The US and Saudi Arabia have collapsed oil prices, to further destroy the Russian economy. Full-scale military escalations are being planned. The US Congress is pushing new legislation tantamount to an open declaration of war against Russia.
The US and NATO have attacked the Russian federation with sanctions.
The US and Saudi Arabia have collapsed oil prices, to further destroy the Russian economy.
Full-scale military escalations are being planned.
The US Congress is pushing new legislation tantamount to an open declaration of war against Russia.
What next?
Perhaps it is time for the CIA to produce a Seth Rogen-James Franco movie about assassinating Putin. Another "parody". Or how about a movie about killing Assad, or anyone else the United States wants to make into a Public Enemy? Don't think Langley isn't working on it.
The return of the Bushes (who were never gone) In the midst of all escalating war hysteria comes news that Jeb Bush is "actively exploring" running for president in 2016. The long predicted return of the Bush family, the kings of terrorism, the emperors of the false flag operation, back to the White House appears imminent. The CIA will have its favorite family back in the Oval Office, with true CIA scion to manage the apocalyptic wars are likely to be launched in earnest in the next two years:
Russia/Ukraine North Korea the Middle East
Russia/Ukraine
North Korea
the Middle East
Jeb Bush will "finish the job" The 2016 presidential "contest" will be a charade. It is likely to put forth two corrupt establishment political "friends" posing as adversaries, when in fact, they are longtime comrades and conspirators.
On one side, Hillary (and Bill) Clinton. On the other side, Jeb Bush, with George H.W., George W. and all of the Bush cronies crawling back out of the rotten woodwork.
On one side, Hillary (and Bill) Clinton.
On the other side, Jeb Bush, with George H.W., George W. and all of the Bush cronies crawling back out of the rotten woodwork.
The fact is that the Clintons and Bushes, and their intertwined networks, have run the country since the 1980s, their respective camps taking turns in power, with Obama as transitional figurehead (his administration has always been run by neoliberal elites connected to the Clintonistas, including Hillary Clinton herself). The collective history of the Bushes stretches back to the very founding of the American intelligence state. It is the very history of modern war criminality. The resume is George H. W. Bush - the CIA operative and CIA Director - is long and bloody, and littered with cocaine dust.
The entire Bush family ran the Iran-Contra/CIA drug apparatus, with the Clintons among the Bush network's full partners in the massive drug/weapons/banking frauds of that era, the effects of which still resonate today.
And we need not remind that the Bush clan and 9/11 are responsible for the world of terror and false flag foreign policy and deception that we suffer today. While it remains too early to know which way the Establishment will go with their selection (and it depends on how world war shakes out between now and 2016), it is highly likely that Jeb
Bush would be the pick Hillary Clinton has already been scandalized - "Benghazi-ed".
Jeb Bush, on the other hand, has ideal Establishment/CIA pedigree. He has waited years for the stupid American public to forget the horrors that his family - Georges H.W. and W. - brought humanity. And now Americans , with their ultra-short memories, have indeed forgotten, if they had ever understood it in the first place. And the American public does not know who Jeb Bush is, beyond the last name.
Jeb Bush, whom Barbara Bush always said was the "smart one", has been involved in Bush narco-criminal business since Iran-Contra. His criminal activities in Florida, his connection with anti-Castro Cuban terrorists and other connections are there, for those who bother to investigate them.
His Latin American connections - including his ability to speak fluent Spanish, a Latin wife and a half-Latin son (George P. Bush, the next up and coming political Bush) - conveniently appeals to the fastest-growing demographic, as well as those in the southern hemisphere drug trade.
Recent Obama overtures towards the Latino demographic - immigration, Cuba - appear to be a Democratic Party move to counter Jeb Bush's known strengths in the same demographic. Today, in the collective American mind,
Kim Jong-Un and Vladimir Putin are "the bad guys". But the mass murdering war criminal Bushes are saints, "nice guys"
Kim Jong-Un and Vladimir Putin are "the bad guys".
But the mass murdering war criminal Bushes are saints, "nice guys"
A Jeb Bush presidency will be a pure war presidency, one that promises terror, more unspeakable than we are experiencing now, lording it over a world engulfed in holocaust. This is not a movie.
Return to CIA - The Central Intelligence Agency
Return to The Global Media Control
Return to False Flag Operations
