# False Flag Operations

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_falseflag02.htm

by Deanna Spingola May 11, 2010
from VeracityVoice Website
Deanna Spingola has been a quilt designer and is the author of two books. She has traveled extensively teaching and lecturing on her unique methods. She has always been an avid reader of non-fiction works designed to educate rather than entertain. She is active in family history research and lectures on that topic. Currently she is the director of the local Family History Center. She has a great interest in politics and the direction of current government policies, particularly as they relate to the Constitution. Her website is at: www.spingola.com email: deanna@spingola.com Deanna Spingola is a regular columnist for Novakeo.com
The Crisis Route to the New World Order
David Rockefeller said,
All we need is the right major crisis and the nations will accept the New World Order.
Rahm Emanuel said,
You never want a serious crisis to go to waste. And what I mean by that is an opportunity to do things you think you could not do before.
In the Project for a New American Century document Rebuilding Americas Defenses: Strategy, Forces and Resources for a New Century we find the following:
Further, the process of transformation, even if it brings revolutionary change, is likely to be a long one, absent some catastrophic and catalyzing event - like a new Pearl Harbor. [1]
False Flag (choreographed catastrophes) operations have been used for generations for various motives:
the seizure of additional land and/or natural/mineral resources (domestic or foreign) the acquisition of cheap labor economic destabilization the military depopulation of indigenous populations the destruction of religious or political ideologies the establishment of political tyranny or a coup d'état (as experienced after 9/11with the establishment of the PATRIOT Act and the Department of Homeland Security) to assist an allegedly threatened ally to protect U.S. citizens living in a foreign country
the seizure of additional land and/or natural/mineral resources (domestic or foreign)
the acquisition of cheap labor
economic destabilization
the military depopulation of indigenous populations
the destruction of religious or political ideologies
the establishment of political tyranny or a coup d'état (as experienced after 9/11with the establishment of the PATRIOT Act and the Department of Homeland Security)
to assist an allegedly threatened ally
to protect U.S. citizens living in a foreign country
The foundational factor in the majority of all false flag operations is the imposition of greater restrictions on worldwide residential populations in order to implement internationalism or globalism, formerly known as the utopian New World Order under the direction of an elite hierarchy.
False flag catastrophes include,
terrorist attacks assassinations of political leaders natural disasters industrial accidents armed assaults against citizens (Waco, Ruby Ridge, Kent State) economic assaults in the form of economic crashes like 1929 or more recently the banker bailouts, both massive redistribution scams
terrorist attacks
assassinations of political leaders
natural disasters
industrial accidents
armed assaults against citizens (Waco, Ruby Ridge, Kent State)
economic assaults in the form of economic crashes like 1929 or more recently the banker bailouts, both massive redistribution scams
The prevailing feature in all of these circumstances, whether manmade or natural, is the transference of culpability followed by the governments predictable exploitation of any and all circumstances. False flag operations manipulate individuals, either dupes or well-paid, skilled operatives - who masquerade as purported enemy aggressors. Aircraft or ships are either camouflaged to conceal their identity or marked in such a way as to confuse witnesses. The operation is compartmentally constructed in such a way that individuals participate in a small part of the venture without knowing the entire scope of the operation.
After the fact, their willing but unwary participation might insure their silence.
False flag operations accelerated after the formation of government intelligence agencies, like the CIA, again at the behest of private interests with the ready assistance of the media who introduce false leads to sustain the preconceived cover story.
A false flag operation where innocent people are murdered invariably supplies the pretext for a military invasion where even more killing occurs including unwary U.S. soldiers who believe they are fighting for their country. Ambrose Pierce, the satirist, and creator of The Devils Dictionary defined politics as,
A strife of interests masquerading as a contest of principles, the conduct of public affairs for private advantage. [2]
On January 24, 1898, during a Cuban insurrection against Spain, the USS Maine arrived at Havana, where it had been sent to allegedly protect some U.S. citizens living there. In reality, U.S. corporations, with about $50 million invested in the production and distribution of Cuban sugar and tobacco, had concerns about their investments. On February 15, 1898, while it was docked in Havana Harbor, a devastating explosion sank the ship. The incident killed 260 Americans. We now know that is was an internal explosion, not the result of an attack. However, the citizens were fueled by warmongers in the print media who pushed the slogan, Remember the Maine! To hell with Spain. Outraged citizens agreed to retaliate and go to war against Spain because of the incident. Congress, which was wholly controlled by private interests, declared war on April 25, 1898. Two days later, the U.S. sent 11,000 occupational troops to the resource-rich Philippines, a Spanish colony and the real target. The Filipinos resisted Americas liberation efforts for three years during which several thousand civilians were slaughtered. The strategic location of the Philippines would provide easier access to the riches of Asia, a highly populated area replete with abundant resources and almost numberless people who had been hoarding and passing down their gold and treasures for centuries.With the deceptive establishment of the privately owned Federal Reserve printing press by a compromised Congress, large-scale, debt-based warfare became even more feasible, its costs being shifted to U.S. citizens and their children and grandchildren. World War I in Europe was initially provoked by the assassination of an Austrian Archduke. But that was hardly an interest to Americans who had to feel some sense of personal outrage in order to justify U.S. military participation in a foreign war where American soldiers were likely to be killed. The Lusitania, an armed British passenger vessel deceptively flew the American flag and carried ammunition from U.S. companies bound for belligerent Britain. The ship, described as live bait by Winston Churchill, a Rothschild minion, was deliberately sent into harms way. Her military escort inexplicably withdrew and the ship dramatically slowed down and abandoned the defensive zigzag pattern of travel. In early February 1915, the British Admiralty, under the direction of Churchill, had ordered British merchant ships, like the Lusitania, to ram German submarines on sight. The Lusitania, borrowed by the British government and reclassified as an auxiliary cruiser, was equipped with bases for mounting guns. [3] Germany was aware of Churchills orders by February 15. On April 22, 1915, Germany, through its U.S. Embassy warned Americans not to travel on British ships in the war zone. They also paid to advertise the warning in The New York Times on that same day. [4] The warning was not printed in the Times until the day of departure. The Germans predictably attacked on May 7, 1915 and 785 people, including 128 Americans perished, but it ultimately got the U.S. into World War I.Lenin said, The first World War gave us Russia, while the Second World War will hand Europe to us. [5] For Lenin, a true Marxist, world revolution was the goal. World War I followed immediately by the Bolshevik Revolution subjugated only one country under communist rule, Russia. Lenins Bolshevik party was financed wholly by some of the same international bankers who instigated the Federal Reserve. In 1916, Lenin recognized that war was simply a revolution on a massive scale and professed that the world would need another war, as one was insufficient. [6] Before the Czars assassination and the usurpation of Russias government, Lenin said, After Russia we will take Eastern Europe, then the masses of Asia, then we will encircle the United States which will be the last bastion of capitalism. We will not have to attack. It will fall like an overripe fruit into our hands. [7] This would be accomplished through infiltration, all the while using the Hegelian dialectic of controlled opposition - as used by Lenin. Control the opposition, the proverbial right-left cultural division, in order to assure the desired result - total takeover and communization of the U.S.Stalin (Iosef Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili), nicknamed Soso, was an agitator, terrorist and a murderer, along with his Bolshevik comrades. Beginning in 1902, he worked at the Rothschild oil refinery in Batumi. He probably still worked for the Rothschilds when he moved to the Baku area in 1907. [8] Oil tycoons made contributions to the Bolsheviks. Berta Nussimbaum, wife of oil baron, financed Stalins communist press. Rothschilds managing director, David Landau, personally made regular contributions to Stalin. David Sagirashvili, a Menshevik, knew Stalin in Baku and claimed he engaged in routine kidnappings after which he demanded ransom. [9] The Mensheviks, a less violent faction of the Russian revolutionary movement, emerged in 1904. The word Bolshevism was Russian and would have to be appropriately changed for each country.Stalin always favored the more violent approach and ultimately killed millions, even during peacetime - in the gulags (slave labor camps), and in the Ukraine where five to ten million were deliberately starved to death during Stalins imposed famine during the winter of 1932-1933. Despite knowledge of Stalins horrific genocidal crimes against humanity, Franklin D. Roosevelt, a like-minded individual, officially recognized the legitimacy of the government of the Soviet Union, without Congressional approval. This later enabled the Soviet Union to fully participate in the banker-supported United Nations, situated on land donated by banker John D. Rockefeller Jr. whose illustrious family made their millions via Rothschild support. Roosevelt, whose administration was knowingly filled with Communist agitators and Soviet spies, did as much to promote communism, even in this country, as any revolutionary Communist.Churchills estate mortgage was paid off by the Jewish European financiers, known as the Focus Group. Churchill then arranged a meeting with these bankers and Franklin D. Roosevelt in order to get the U.S. into war through the back door. [10] Churchill and Roosevelt monitored the entire progress of the Japanese as they approached Pearl Harbor. After months of illegally blockading Japan which totally depended on imports to survive, the Japanese predictably attacked - all according to Henry L. Stimsons strategy. He was a Standard Oil attorney and a member of Skull and Bones (appropriately known as the Brotherhood of Death). The attack on Pearl Harbor got America into a two-front war - with Japan and her European ally, Germany. Japans assault on Pearl Harbor killed 2,345 U.S. military men and injured another 1,100 people. Fortuitously, the U.S. government had already withdrawn their newer ships and planes to save them from destruction. Obligatory commissions, some by independent entities, were convened to investigate. Foreknowledge of the event, if not actual participation, was verified, but the compromised media deliberately concealed all conclusions that divulged U.S. government participation. On April 27, 1961, in an address to newspaper publishers, President Kennedy said the following regarding Freemasonry, The very word secrecy is repugnant in a free and open society; and we are as a people inherently and historically opposed to secret societies, to secret oaths and to secret proceedings. We decided long ago that the dangers of excessive and unwarranted concealment of pertinent facts far outweighed the dangers which are cited to justify it. Kennedy, by his rhetoric and his actions did not support the nefarious schemes of those who covertly arrange all wars through their secret society associations and false flag operations. On June 28, 1961, Kennedy fired CIA Director Allen Dulles, former Wall Street lawyer and attempted to strip the CIA of all power with NSAM 55 and NSAM 57. [11] Kennedy was also against Israels development of a nuclear weapon. On October 9, 1997, the Washington Jewish Week reported, Israel need not apologize for the assassination or destruction of those who seek to destroy it. The first order of business for any country is the protection of its people. [12] That last sentence is a bit duplicitous and disingenuous, given the support and billions of dollars that the economically-stressed U.S. has given to Israel at the expense of our own economic security. Apparently our politicians have other loyalties. Almost 300 members of Congress signed a declaration reaffirming their commitment to the unbreakable bond that exists between the U.S. and the State of Israel in a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. [13] George Washington warned us, Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence the jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly awake, since history and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on one side The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations, to have with them as little political connection as possible. [14] Allen Dulles would later participate on the Warren Commission which concealed the facts regarding John F. Kennedys assassination, a combined CIA/Mossad operation blamed on a lone gunman who was immediately killed. The astute allegations of Michael Collins Piper in Final Judgment, the Missing Link in the JFK Assassination Conspiracy were verified in the Jerusalem Post on July 25, 2004 by Mordechai Vanunu, a former Israeli nuclear technician [15] and shift manager at the Negev Nuclear Research Center from 1976 to 1985. He was troubled by Israels nuclear weapons program and their war strategies. Probably because of his views and activism, he was laid off from Dimona in 1985 and soon left the country for Sydney, Australia where he converted to Christianity. In Australia, he revealed Israels covert nuclear program to Peter Hounam of the British press. On October 5, 1986, a front-page story appeared in The Sunday Times, Revealed: the secrets of Israels nuclear arsenal. Thereafter, Vanunu was drugged and kidnapped with the help of Israeli Mossad agent Cheryl Bentov who deceptively befriended him. He was taken to Israel, tried behind closed doors and sentenced on February 27, 1988. Vanunu spent eighteen years in prison, eleven of which were in solitary confinement. He was released on April 21, 2004. [16] According to satellite images, by February 1991, during the Gulf War, Israel had fired six to eight rounds of low-yield, miniaturized nuclear weapons from the Negev desert on Baghdad, 600 miles away. [17] Following World War II, according to the Rhode Island Freemason Newsletter, Lyman Lemnitzer was a military planner, as was his good friend, Dwight D. Eisenhower. [18] During Kennedys administration, Lemnitzer, a 33rd Degree Freemason and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and others proffered a document entitled Justification for U.S. Military Intervention in Cuba, [19] dated March 13, 1962, which recommended a false flag attack against the U.S. with the blame to be put on Cuba, which would then justify a retaliatory strike against that country. Their plan, called Operation Northwoods, may have originated with President Eisenhower and might even involve the killing of American citizens, the hijacking of planes and false arrests. [20] Per the document, We could develop a Communist Cuban terror campaign in the Miami area, in other Florida cities and even in Washington. They could target a specific ethnic group who would be incorrectly vilified as terrorists. [21] Or, Lemnitzer said, We could blow up a U.S. ship in Guantánamo Bay and blame Cuba. Further, he suggested that they could create casualty lists in U.S. newspapers to provoke national indignation. [22] They could paint a CIA plane to look like a commercial plane and then swap the real plane with a drone. Lemnitzer wasnt intending to free the Cuban people who supported Castro, but rather, Forces would assure rapid essential military control of Cuba where continued police action would be required. The details of Operation Northwoods, under Operation Mongoose, were concealed for over forty years. Lemnitzer thought that all of the copies were destroyed. [23]Kennedy absolutely opposed Operation Northwoods, planned to withdraw troops from Vietnam, was determined to prevent Israel from becoming a nuclear state per Kennedys harsh letter of July 5, 1963 to Prime Minister Levi Eshkol, [24] and threatened to break up the CIA, an organization wholly devoted to protecting Wall Street interests. Elizabeth Forsling Harris, a public relations executive with CIA connections was in charge of planning Kennedys Dallas motorcade route. [25] On that fateful day in Dallas Kennedy, like the Lusitania, was deliberately sent into harms way, security policies were altered and Kennedys protective forces were inexplicably withdrawn and he was brutally assassinated on November 22, 1963, an event which essentially functioned as another political coup. [26] Operation Northwoods, or other false-flag attacks perpetrated against America, could now be implemented as regular policy with the able assistance of the CIA, still intact. On November 29, 1963, the newly installed President Lyndon B. Johnson, a Freemason, [27] convened the Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, known as the Warren Commission from its chairman, Chief Justice Earl Warren. On September 24, 1964, the Commission presented its 888-page final report which claimed that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone. Commission member, Gerald Ford, also a Freemason, according to declassified files, admitted that he persuaded the Commission to state that Kennedys back wound was several inches higher than it really was. Ford and Arlen Specter, another commission member, promoted the implausible single bullet theory. [28]Ford, perhaps as a reward, would be installed as Vice President on December 6, 1973 when Spiro Agnew was ousted over tax issues. Rockefeller agent, Henry Kissinger orchestrated Watergate, a media circus that got rid of Nixon and ultimately politically benefited Kissinger, Ford and Rockefeller. [29] Attorney Hillary Rodham, along with Fred Thompson, Trent Lott, and Howard Baker,[30] were on the legal staff of the House Judiciary Committee during the Watergate fiasco to help prepare articles of impeachment against Nixon. Rodham landed this job right out of law school, thanks to Ted Kennedy and Burke Marshall. Allegedly, her legal procedures were ethically flawed. [31] [32] On August 9, 1974, Ford became president of the U.S. after Nixons resignation. Ford, the unelected president, unconditionally pardoned Nixon and carried out the bankers agenda as every president has done since Johnson took office after Kennedys assassination.The USS Maddox was allegedly assaulted by three North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin on August 2, 1964, followed by an incident on August 4, 1964. There were no U.S. casualties in either incident. However, President Johnson obtained the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution which was co-authored by brothers McGeorge and William P. Bundy (both members of Skull & Bones). William P. Bundy was the chief architect of the Vietnam War. [33] At the request of CFR Chairman, David Rockefeller, William Bundy served as editor or the CFR magazine Foreign Affairs from 1972 to 1984. [34] Those who arrange all wars propelled the U.S. and her citizens into an expensive, bloody, devastating, lengthy war against a country that hadnt actually attacked us, a fact that was revealed by declassified documents in 2005. Author James Bamford states that Lemnitzer advocated nuclear war in Vietnam. In terms of lives, the war cost the lives of almost 60,000 U.S. citizens and four million Vietnamese and Cambodian (secret bombing) residents.The U.S. has found it more expedient and less expensive to train and arm local cannon fodder or indigenous ethnic or religious groups to slaughter each other. The U.S. did this in Vietnam. Green Berets trained the Montagnards, the people in the southern highlands. The CIAs Air America flew arms and other supplies into the remote Hmong villages and flew opium out - to supply American troops fighting in Vietnam and the vast international market. [35]
On January 24, 1898, during a Cuban insurrection against Spain, the USS Maine arrived at Havana, where it had been sent to allegedly protect some U.S. citizens living there.
In reality, U.S. corporations, with about $50 million invested in the production and distribution of Cuban sugar and tobacco, had concerns about their investments. On February 15, 1898, while it was docked in Havana Harbor, a devastating explosion sank the ship. The incident killed 260 Americans. We now know that is was an internal explosion, not the result of an attack.
However, the citizens were fueled by warmongers in the print media who pushed the slogan, Remember the Maine! To hell with Spain.
Outraged citizens agreed to retaliate and go to war against Spain because of the incident. Congress, which was wholly controlled by private interests, declared war on April 25, 1898. Two days later, the U.S. sent 11,000 occupational troops to the resource-rich Philippines, a Spanish colony and the real target.
The Filipinos resisted Americas liberation efforts for three years during which several thousand civilians were slaughtered.
The strategic location of the Philippines would provide easier access to the riches of Asia, a highly populated area replete with abundant resources and almost numberless people who had been hoarding and passing down their gold and treasures for centuries.With the deceptive establishment of the privately owned Federal Reserve printing press by a compromised Congress, large-scale, debt-based warfare became even more feasible, its costs being shifted to U.S. citizens and their children and grandchildren.
World War I in Europe was initially provoked by the assassination of an Austrian Archduke. But that was hardly an interest to Americans who had to feel some sense of personal outrage in order to justify U.S. military participation in a foreign war where American soldiers were likely to be killed. The Lusitania, an armed British passenger vessel deceptively flew the American flag and carried ammunition from U.S. companies bound for belligerent Britain.
The ship, described as live bait by Winston Churchill, a Rothschild minion, was deliberately sent into harms way. Her military escort inexplicably withdrew and the ship dramatically slowed down and abandoned the defensive zigzag pattern of travel. In early February 1915, the British Admiralty, under the direction of Churchill, had ordered British merchant ships, like the Lusitania, to ram German submarines on sight.
The Lusitania, borrowed by the British government and reclassified as an auxiliary cruiser, was equipped with bases for mounting guns. [3]
Germany was aware of Churchills orders by February 15. On April 22, 1915, Germany, through its U.S. Embassy warned Americans not to travel on British ships in the war zone. They also paid to advertise the warning in The New York Times on that same day. [4]
The warning was not printed in the Times until the day of departure. The Germans predictably attacked on May 7, 1915 and 785 people, including 128 Americans perished, but it ultimately got the U.S. into World War I.Lenin said,
The first World War gave us Russia, while the Second World War will hand Europe to us. [5]
For Lenin, a true Marxist, world revolution was the goal.
World War I followed immediately by the Bolshevik Revolution subjugated only one country under communist rule, Russia. Lenins Bolshevik party was financed wholly by some of the same international bankers who instigated the Federal Reserve.
In 1916, Lenin recognized that war was simply a revolution on a massive scale and professed that the world would need another war, as one was insufficient. [6]
Before the Czars assassination and the usurpation of Russias government, Lenin said,
After Russia we will take Eastern Europe, then the masses of Asia, then we will encircle the United States which will be the last bastion of capitalism. We will not have to attack. It will fall like an overripe fruit into our hands. [7]
This would be accomplished through infiltration, all the while using the Hegelian dialectic of controlled opposition - as used by Lenin. Control the opposition, the proverbial right-left cultural division, in order to assure the desired result - total takeover and communization of the U.S.Stalin (Iosef Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili), nicknamed Soso, was an agitator, terrorist and a murderer, along with his Bolshevik comrades. Beginning in 1902, he worked at the Rothschild oil refinery in Batumi.
He probably still worked for the Rothschilds when he moved to the Baku area in 1907. [8]
Oil tycoons made contributions to the Bolsheviks. Berta Nussimbaum, wife of oil baron, financed Stalins communist press. Rothschilds managing director, David Landau, personally made regular contributions to Stalin.
David Sagirashvili, a Menshevik, knew Stalin in Baku and claimed he engaged in routine kidnappings after which he demanded ransom. [9]
The Mensheviks, a less violent faction of the Russian revolutionary movement, emerged in 1904. The word Bolshevism was Russian and would have to be appropriately changed for each country.Stalin always favored the more violent approach and ultimately killed millions, even during peacetime - in the gulags (slave labor camps), and in the Ukraine where five to ten million were deliberately starved to death during Stalins imposed famine during the winter of 1932-1933.
Despite knowledge of Stalins horrific genocidal crimes against humanity, Franklin D. Roosevelt, a like-minded individual, officially recognized the legitimacy of the government of the Soviet Union, without Congressional approval.
This later enabled the Soviet Union to fully participate in the banker-supported United Nations, situated on land donated by banker John D. Rockefeller Jr. whose illustrious family made their millions via Rothschild support. Roosevelt, whose administration was knowingly filled with Communist agitators and Soviet spies, did as much to promote communism, even in this country, as any revolutionary Communist.Churchills estate mortgage was paid off by the Jewish European financiers, known as the Focus Group. Churchill then arranged a meeting with these bankers and Franklin D. Roosevelt in order to get the U.S. into war through the back door. [10]
Churchill and Roosevelt monitored the entire progress of the Japanese as they approached Pearl Harbor. After months of illegally blockading Japan which totally depended on imports to survive, the Japanese predictably attacked - all according to Henry L. Stimsons strategy. He was a Standard Oil attorney and a member of Skull and Bones (appropriately known as the Brotherhood of Death).
The attack on Pearl Harbor got America into a two-front war - with Japan and her European ally, Germany. Japans assault on Pearl Harbor killed 2,345 U.S. military men and injured another 1,100 people.
Fortuitously, the U.S. government had already withdrawn their newer ships and planes to save them from destruction. Obligatory commissions, some by independent entities, were convened to investigate. Foreknowledge of the event, if not actual participation, was verified, but the compromised media deliberately concealed all conclusions that divulged U.S. government participation.
On April 27, 1961, in an address to newspaper publishers, President Kennedy said the following regarding Freemasonry,
The very word secrecy is repugnant in a free and open society; and we are as a people inherently and historically opposed to secret societies, to secret oaths and to secret proceedings. We decided long ago that the dangers of excessive and unwarranted concealment of pertinent facts far outweighed the dangers which are cited to justify it.
Kennedy, by his rhetoric and his actions did not support the nefarious schemes of those who covertly arrange all wars through their secret society associations and false flag operations.
On June 28, 1961, Kennedy fired CIA Director Allen Dulles, former Wall Street lawyer and attempted to strip the CIA of all power with NSAM 55 and NSAM 57. [11]
Kennedy was also against Israels development of a nuclear weapon. On October 9, 1997, the Washington Jewish Week reported,
Israel need not apologize for the assassination or destruction of those who seek to destroy it. The first order of business for any country is the protection of its people. [12]
That last sentence is a bit duplicitous and disingenuous, given the support and billions of dollars that the economically-stressed U.S. has given to Israel at the expense of our own economic security.
Apparently our politicians have other loyalties. Almost 300 members of Congress signed a declaration reaffirming their commitment to the unbreakable bond that exists between the U.S. and the State of Israel in a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. [13]
George Washington warned us,
Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence the jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly awake, since history and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on one side The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations, to have with them as little political connection as possible. [14]
Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence the jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly awake, since history and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government
Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on one side The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations, to have with them as little political connection as possible. [14]
Allen Dulles would later participate on the Warren Commission which concealed the facts regarding John F. Kennedys assassination, a combined CIA/Mossad operation blamed on a lone gunman who was immediately killed.
The astute allegations of Michael Collins Piper in Final Judgment, the Missing Link in the JFK Assassination Conspiracy were verified in the Jerusalem Post on July 25, 2004 by Mordechai Vanunu, a former Israeli nuclear technician [15] and shift manager at the Negev Nuclear Research Center from 1976 to 1985.
He was troubled by Israels nuclear weapons program and their war strategies. Probably because of his views and activism, he was laid off from Dimona in 1985 and soon left the country for Sydney, Australia where he converted to Christianity. In Australia, he revealed Israels covert nuclear program to Peter Hounam of the British press.
On October 5, 1986, a front-page story appeared in The Sunday Times, Revealed: the secrets of Israels nuclear arsenal.
Thereafter, Vanunu was drugged and kidnapped with the help of Israeli Mossad agent Cheryl Bentov who deceptively befriended him. He was taken to Israel, tried behind closed doors and sentenced on February 27, 1988. Vanunu spent eighteen years in prison, eleven of which were in solitary confinement. He was released on April 21, 2004. [16]
According to satellite images, by February 1991, during the Gulf War, Israel had fired six to eight rounds of low-yield, miniaturized nuclear weapons from the Negev desert on Baghdad, 600 miles away. [17]
Following World War II, according to the Rhode Island Freemason Newsletter, Lyman Lemnitzer was a military planner, as was his good friend, Dwight D. Eisenhower. [18] During Kennedys administration, Lemnitzer, a 33rd Degree Freemason and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and others proffered a document entitled Justification for U.S. Military Intervention in Cuba, [19] dated March 13, 1962, which recommended a false flag attack against the U.S. with the blame to be put on Cuba, which would then justify a retaliatory strike against that country.
Their plan, called Operation Northwoods, may have originated with President Eisenhower and might even involve the killing of American citizens, the hijacking of planes and false arrests. [20]
Per the document,
We could develop a Communist Cuban terror campaign in the Miami area, in other Florida cities and even in Washington.
They could target a specific ethnic group who would be incorrectly vilified as terrorists. [21]
Or, Lemnitzer said,
We could blow up a U.S. ship in Guantánamo Bay and blame Cuba.
Further, he suggested that they could create casualty lists in U.S. newspapers to provoke national indignation. [22]
They could paint a CIA plane to look like a commercial plane and then swap the real plane with a drone. Lemnitzer wasnt intending to free the Cuban people who supported Castro, but rather,
Forces would assure rapid essential military control of Cuba where continued police action would be required.
The details of Operation Northwoods, under Operation Mongoose, were concealed for over forty years.
Lemnitzer thought that all of the copies were destroyed. [23]Kennedy absolutely opposed Operation Northwoods, planned to withdraw troops from Vietnam, was determined to prevent Israel from becoming a nuclear state per Kennedys harsh letter of July 5, 1963 to Prime Minister Levi Eshkol, [24] and threatened to break up the CIA, an organization wholly devoted to protecting Wall Street interests.
Elizabeth Forsling Harris, a public relations executive with CIA connections was in charge of planning Kennedys Dallas motorcade route. [25]
On that fateful day in Dallas Kennedy, like the Lusitania, was deliberately sent into harms way, security policies were altered and Kennedys protective forces were inexplicably withdrawn and he was brutally assassinated on November 22, 1963, an event which essentially functioned as another political coup. [26]
Operation Northwoods, or other false-flag attacks perpetrated against America, could now be implemented as regular policy with the able assistance of the CIA, still intact.
On November 29, 1963, the newly installed President Lyndon B. Johnson, a Freemason, [27] convened the Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, known as the Warren Commission from its chairman, Chief Justice Earl Warren. On September 24, 1964, the Commission presented its 888-page final report which claimed that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone.
Commission member, Gerald Ford, also a Freemason, according to declassified files, admitted that he persuaded the Commission to state that Kennedys back wound was several inches higher than it really was.
Ford and Arlen Specter, another commission member, promoted the implausible single bullet theory. [28]Ford, perhaps as a reward, would be installed as Vice President on December 6, 1973 when Spiro Agnew was ousted over tax issues.
Rockefeller agent, Henry Kissinger orchestrated Watergate, a media circus that got rid of Nixon and ultimately politically benefited Kissinger, Ford and Rockefeller. [29]
Attorney Hillary Rodham, along with Fred Thompson, Trent Lott, and Howard Baker,[30] were on the legal staff of the House Judiciary Committee during the Watergate fiasco to help prepare articles of impeachment against Nixon. Rodham landed this job right out of law school, thanks to Ted Kennedy and Burke Marshall. Allegedly, her legal procedures were ethically flawed. [31] [32]
On August 9, 1974, Ford became president of the U.S. after Nixons resignation. Ford, the unelected president, unconditionally pardoned Nixon and carried out the bankers agenda as every president has done since Johnson took office after Kennedys assassination.The USS Maddox was allegedly assaulted by three North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin on August 2, 1964, followed by an incident on August 4, 1964. There were no U.S. casualties in either incident.
However, President Johnson obtained the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution which was co-authored by brothers McGeorge and William P. Bundy (both members of Skull & Bones).
William P. Bundy was the chief architect of the Vietnam War. [33] At the request of CFR Chairman, David Rockefeller, William Bundy served as editor or the CFR magazine Foreign Affairs from 1972 to 1984. [34]
Those who arrange all wars propelled the U.S. and her citizens into an expensive, bloody, devastating, lengthy war against a country that hadnt actually attacked us, a fact that was revealed by declassified documents in 2005.
Author James Bamford states that Lemnitzer advocated nuclear war in Vietnam. In terms of lives, the war cost the lives of almost 60,000 U.S. citizens and four million Vietnamese and Cambodian (secret bombing) residents.The U.S. has found it more expedient and less expensive to train and arm local cannon fodder or indigenous ethnic or religious groups to slaughter each other. The U.S. did this in Vietnam. Green Berets trained the Montagnards, the people in the southern highlands.
The CIAs Air America flew arms and other supplies into the remote Hmong villages and flew opium out - to supply American troops fighting in Vietnam and the vast international market. [35]
False flags, including,
the 1967 Israeli attack on the USS Liberty with blame to be placed on Egypt the first attack at the World Trade Center Oklahoma City 9/11 followed by two U.S. invasions - Afghanistan and Iraq, the anthrax scare (origin - Fort Detrick),
the 1967 Israeli attack on the USS Liberty with blame to be placed on Egypt
the first attack at the World Trade Center
Oklahoma City
9/11 followed by two U.S. invasions - Afghanistan and Iraq, the anthrax scare (origin - Fort Detrick),
...the numerous threats and allegedly failed terrorist attacks,
the Christmas bomber the Times Square bomb incident perpetrated by accused bomber Faisal Shahzad, an alleged member of a British MI6 and the CIA-controlled terrorist organization who, [36] apparently after extensive training from the Pakistani Taliban, created a dud bomb incapable of exploding
the Christmas bomber
the Times Square bomb incident perpetrated by accused bomber Faisal Shahzad, an alleged member of a British MI6 and the CIA-controlled terrorist organization who, [36] apparently after extensive training from the Pakistani Taliban, created a dud bomb incapable of exploding
Consequently, Senators Joe Lieberman and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Jason Altmire and Charlie Dent want to pass legislation that would eliminate, without due process, the citizenship of anyone even suspected of affiliating with a foreign terrorist organization with the exception of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). [37]
The Jewish Defense League (JDL), according to the FBI in 2001, is a right-wing terrorist group. Also, according to the FBI, the JDL has plotted numerous terrorist attacks within the U.S.
The organization, founded by Rabbi Meir Kahane, is no longer categorized as a terrorist organization. So, apparently, U.S. citizens, some with duel citizenship, involved with either the IDF or the JDL will not have to forfeit their U.S. citizenship. Another person who purportedly went off the deep end and perpetrated a massacre at Fort Hood, Texas on November 6, 2009 similar to Columbine (April 20, 1999).
Other questionable catastrophes, not currently categorized as false flag events, still provide the exploitive circumstances for the imposition of tyrannical legislation and regulations.
For as Rahm Emanuel said,
These catastrophes include:
The US Airways Flight 1549 being ditched in the Hudson River adjacent Manhattan, New York City, on January 15, 2009. Polish President Lech Kaczynski, along with numerous other opposition party officials, died in a mysterious plane crash in Smolensk, Russia on April 10, 2010. This accident probably had more to do with Kaczynskis opposition to a $100 billion dollar contract with Russias Gazprom Gas deal than with problematic weather. It would have made Poland 100% dependent on Russian gas for the next 28 years. [38] See the remarkable digital enhancement of the amateur plane crash site footage: There was the 9.0 earthquake that struck the Indian Ocean region on December 26, 2004 with the resultant tsunami which killed approximately a quarter of a million people. Americans and their European allies were immediately aware of this earthquake due to location of various seismic stations and satellites. The officials, including those at one of those bases, Diego Garcia failed to notify the predominantly Muslim countries in the path of tsunami. [39] Diego Garcia, the U.S. military base in the Indian Ocean, from which the U.S. stages bombing assaults in the Middle East, which was directly in the path of the tsunami experienced no apparent damage. [40] Then there was the cataclysmic earthquake on just half of an island-oil-rich Haiti, followed by militarized aid. In other words, selective assistance to the survivors based on their obedience. Rhetoric about the Times Square bomber has preempted the more devastating news about Deepwater Horizon, owned by Transocean Limited, the worlds largest offshore drilling contractor, and leased to BP, which caught fire on April 20, and exploded killing 11 people. It was insured for $560 million. [41] This crisis resulted in the worst oil spill in history - 5,000 barrels of oil spilling into the sea each day. [42] The Rothschilds own a controlling share of the BP stock. BP, despite an egregious safety record, got an exemption and a cap on damages from the National Environmental Policy Act rules on April 6, 2009 and then lobbied to expand those exemptions just eleven days before the explosion. [43] BP, according to a law passed after the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill limits cleanup costs liability to no more than $75 million although legislation is being introduced to increase liability to $10 billion, retroactively. [44] BP is also responsible for the biggest oil spill ever to occur on Alaskas North Slope. [45] The Rothschilds, by lending money for Halliburtons clean-up operations will make profits. The failed cement casing had been installed by Halliburton and this is the second time within a year that a Halliburton casing has catastrophically failed on an oilrig.As if Katrina, which hit the Gulf Coast the end of August 2005, didnt do enough economic damage and forced relocation of residents in the gulf coast states, this oil spill only furthers the devastation. Louisianas fishing industry, according to Business Week, has a retail value of $1.8 billion while others claim it is even higher. Louisiana supplies a third of the nations oysters and a quarter of all its seafood. The industry employs some 90,000 people in Louisiana. Unfortunately, the accident coincides with the opening of the shrimp season, May 16. Mississippi and Alabama are also very dependent on the fishing industry. [46] On April 30, 2010, the press reported that President Obama has reversed his decision to lift the moratorium on certain offshore drilling. No new oil drilling will be authorized until authorities discover the causes of the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. Deepwater received a safety award in 2009. Lindsey Williams claims that the Gulf incident was sabotage and states that the technology was too advanced for such explosions to occur. Former Colorado Senator Ken Salazar, a globalist pawn for the Nature Conservancy, thought nothing of seizing land from Colorado ranchers in the purported interest of conservation; he was confirmed as Interior Secretary on January 20, 2009. Since April 2009, hundreds of farmers in the San Joaquin valley in Central California have been targeted by U.S. government domestic terrorists who turned off the water in the formerly fertile Fresno area which is about to be turned into a desert. This created forty percent (40%) unemployment in the valley. Farmers in the San Joaquin valley grow about 25 % of the Nations food supply. These decisions caused hundreds of millions of dollars in crop losses.On May 2, 2010, U.S. Interior Secretary Salazar said, Our job basically is to keep the boot on the neck of BP. Interestingly, the Bureau of Land Management, under the direction of the Department of the Interior, conducted a surprise inspection on the oilrig two hours before it exploded: In 1969, Dr. Richard Day, an admitted insider delivered an invitation-only lecture about the new world system in which he defined the changes, according to an actual timetable, that would be accomplished by the year 2000 which included the following: Travel restrictions will occur. It will be considered a privilege! People will need permission and a good reason to travel. An under-the-skin implantation device will be developed, coded specifically to identify each individual to accommodate government surveillance through radio signals. More airplane and auto accidents will occur contributing to a general feeling of insecurity. This will also initiate more government regulations. Manufacturing will be curtailed in order to give other countries a chance to build their industries in order to compete against the United States. Our heavy industries will be deliberately cut back while the same industries are developed in other countries, notably Japan. Food supplies will be centralized and come under tight control. If population growth doesnt slow down, food shortages can be orchestrated to scare or starve people into accepting the theory of overpopulation. Personal gardens and perhaps small farms will be eliminated. Dr. Day said, We can or soon will be able to control the weather Im not merely referring to dropping iodide crystals into the clouds to precipitate rain thats already there, but REAL control. And weather will be used as a weapon of war, a weapon for influencing public policy or perhaps habitation patterns. Terrorism, once thought unnecessary in the United States, will be used by necessity if the United States does not move rapidly enough into accepting the new system. [47]
The US Airways Flight 1549 being ditched in the Hudson River adjacent Manhattan, New York City, on January 15, 2009.
Polish President Lech Kaczynski, along with numerous other opposition party officials, died in a mysterious plane crash in Smolensk, Russia on April 10, 2010.
This accident probably had more to do with Kaczynskis opposition to a $100 billion dollar contract with Russias Gazprom Gas deal than with problematic weather.
It would have made Poland 100% dependent on Russian gas for the next 28 years. [38] See the remarkable digital enhancement of the amateur plane crash site footage:
There was the 9.0 earthquake that struck the Indian Ocean region on December 26, 2004 with the resultant tsunami which killed approximately a quarter of a million people.
Americans and their European allies were immediately aware of this earthquake due to location of various seismic stations and satellites. The officials, including those at one of those bases, Diego Garcia failed to notify the predominantly Muslim countries in the path of tsunami. [39]
Diego Garcia, the U.S. military base in the Indian Ocean, from which the U.S. stages bombing assaults in the Middle East, which was directly in the path of the tsunami experienced no apparent damage. [40]
Then there was the cataclysmic earthquake on just half of an island-oil-rich Haiti, followed by militarized aid. In other words, selective assistance to the survivors based on their obedience.
Rhetoric about the Times Square bomber has preempted the more devastating news about Deepwater Horizon, owned by Transocean Limited, the worlds largest offshore drilling contractor, and leased to BP, which caught fire on April 20, and exploded killing 11 people. It was insured for $560 million. [41]
This crisis resulted in the worst oil spill in history - 5,000 barrels of oil spilling into the sea each day. [42]
The Rothschilds own a controlling share of the BP stock. BP, despite an egregious safety record, got an exemption and a cap on damages from the National Environmental Policy Act rules on April 6, 2009 and then lobbied to expand those exemptions just eleven days before the explosion. [43]
BP, according to a law passed after the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill limits cleanup costs liability to no more than $75 million although legislation is being introduced to increase liability to $10 billion, retroactively. [44]
BP is also responsible for the biggest oil spill ever to occur on Alaskas North Slope. [45]
The Rothschilds, by lending money for Halliburtons clean-up operations will make profits. The failed cement casing had been installed by Halliburton and this is the second time within a year that a Halliburton casing has catastrophically failed on an oilrig.As if Katrina, which hit the Gulf Coast the end of August 2005, didnt do enough economic damage and forced relocation of residents in the gulf coast states, this oil spill only furthers the devastation. Louisianas fishing industry, according to Business Week, has a retail value of $1.8 billion while others claim it is even higher.
Louisiana supplies a third of the nations oysters and a quarter of all its seafood. The industry employs some 90,000 people in Louisiana. Unfortunately, the accident coincides with the opening of the shrimp season, May 16. Mississippi and Alabama are also very dependent on the fishing industry. [46]
On April 30, 2010, the press reported that President Obama has reversed his decision to lift the moratorium on certain offshore drilling. No new oil drilling will be authorized until authorities discover the causes of the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. Deepwater received a safety award in 2009.
Lindsey Williams claims that the Gulf incident was sabotage and states that the technology was too advanced for such explosions to occur.
Former Colorado Senator Ken Salazar, a globalist pawn for the Nature Conservancy, thought nothing of seizing land from Colorado ranchers in the purported interest of conservation; he was confirmed as Interior Secretary on January 20, 2009.
Since April 2009, hundreds of farmers in the San Joaquin valley in Central California have been targeted by U.S. government domestic terrorists who turned off the water in the formerly fertile Fresno area which is about to be turned into a desert. This created forty percent (40%) unemployment in the valley. Farmers in the San Joaquin valley grow about 25 % of the Nations food supply.
These decisions caused hundreds of millions of dollars in crop losses.On May 2, 2010, U.S. Interior Secretary Salazar said,
Our job basically is to keep the boot on the neck of BP.
Interestingly, the Bureau of Land Management, under the direction of the Department of the Interior, conducted a surprise inspection on the oilrig two hours before it exploded:
In 1969, Dr. Richard Day, an admitted insider delivered an invitation-only lecture about the new world system in which he defined the changes, according to an actual timetable, that would be accomplished by the year 2000 which included the following:
Travel restrictions will occur. It will be considered a privilege! People will need permission and a good reason to travel. An under-the-skin implantation device will be developed, coded specifically to identify each individual to accommodate government surveillance through radio signals. More airplane and auto accidents will occur contributing to a general feeling of insecurity. This will also initiate more government regulations. Manufacturing will be curtailed in order to give other countries a chance to build their industries in order to compete against the United States. Our heavy industries will be deliberately cut back while the same industries are developed in other countries, notably Japan. Food supplies will be centralized and come under tight control. If population growth doesnt slow down, food shortages can be orchestrated to scare or starve people into accepting the theory of overpopulation. Personal gardens and perhaps small farms will be eliminated. Dr. Day said, We can or soon will be able to control the weather Im not merely referring to dropping iodide crystals into the clouds to precipitate rain thats already there, but REAL control. And weather will be used as a weapon of war, a weapon for influencing public policy or perhaps habitation patterns. Terrorism, once thought unnecessary in the United States, will be used by necessity if the United States does not move rapidly enough into accepting the new system. [47]
Travel restrictions will occur. It will be considered a privilege! People will need permission and a good reason to travel. An under-the-skin implantation device will be developed, coded specifically to identify each individual to accommodate government surveillance through radio signals.
More airplane and auto accidents will occur contributing to a general feeling of insecurity. This will also initiate more government regulations.
Manufacturing will be curtailed in order to give other countries a chance to build their industries in order to compete against the United States. Our heavy industries will be deliberately cut back while the same industries are developed in other countries, notably Japan.
Food supplies will be centralized and come under tight control. If population growth doesnt slow down, food shortages can be orchestrated to scare or starve people into accepting the theory of overpopulation. Personal gardens and perhaps small farms will be eliminated.
Dr. Day said,
We can or soon will be able to control the weather Im not merely referring to dropping iodide crystals into the clouds to precipitate rain thats already there, but REAL control.
And weather will be used as a weapon of war, a weapon for influencing public policy or perhaps habitation patterns.
Terrorism, once thought unnecessary in the United States, will be used by necessity if the United States does not move rapidly enough into accepting the new system. [47]
Notes
[1] Rebuilding Americas Defenses: Strategy, Forces and Resources for a New Century, p.51, http://www.newamericancentury.org/RebuildingAmericasDefenses.pdf [2] The Devils Dictionary by Ambrose Bierce, Dover Publications, 1958, p. 101 [3] Tragedy and Hope, a History of the world in Our Time by Carroll Quigley, The Macmillan Company, New York, 1966, pp. 250-251 [4] Winston S. Churchill, 1874-1965: A Comprehensive Historiography and Annotated Bibliography by Eugene L. Rasor, Greenwood Press, Westport, Connecticut, 2000, pp. 74-75 [5] The Money Manipulators by June Grem, Enterprise Publications, Inc. Oak Park, Illinois, 1971, pp. 109-110 [6] The Chief Culprit, Stalins Grand Design to Start World War II by Viktor Suvorov, Naval Institute Press, Annapolis, Maryland, 2008, p. 2 [7] Wake-Up America-Its Later Than You Think! by Robert Preston, Hawkes Publishing, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1979, p. 16 [8] Young Stalin by Simon Sebag Montefiore, Random House, New York, 2007, pp. 62, 186; Sir Evelyn de Rothschild gave Montefiore access to the Rothschild archives in Britain and France where Melanie Asprey investigated the Stalin connections to the Rothschilds p. 383 [9] Young Stalin by Simon Sebag Montefiore, Random House, New York, 2007, p. 197 [10] Barbarians Inside the Gates, the Black Book of Bolshevism, Book 1: The Serpents Sting by Donn de Grand Pré, GSG & Associates, San Pedro, California, 2000, p. 60 [11] The Secret Team, the CIA and Its Allies in Control of the United States and the World by L. Fletcher Prouty Col., U.S. Air Force, Skyhorse Publishing, New York, 2008, pp. 482-483 [12] Final Judgment, the Missing Link in the JFCK Assassination Conspiracy by Michael Collins Piper, American Free Press, Washington, DC, 2005, introduction [13] Nearly 300 Congress Members Declare Commitment to Unbreakable U.S.-Israel Bond, http://www.haaretz.com/news/nearly-300-congress-members-declare-commitment-to-unbreakable-u-s-israel-bond-1.266652 [14] Washingtons Farewell Address 1796, http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/washing.asp [15] Final Judgment, the Missing Link in the JFCK Assassination Conspiracy by Michael Collins Piper, American Free Press, Washington, DC, 2005, introduction [16] Israeli nuclear spy released by Walt Rodgers and Paula Hancocks, CNN, http://www.cnn.com/2004/WORLD/meast/04/21/israel.vanunu/ [17] The 9/11 Whistle-Blowers - Col. Donn de Grand-Pre, U.S. Army (ret.), Transcript: Alex Jones Interviews Col. Donn de Grand-Pre, U.S. Army (ret.): Explosive New 9/11, Revelations and Explanations, p. 3 [18] Rhode Island Freemason Newsletter, Grand Lodge of Rhode Island Established 1791, Volume Thirty-two, Issue Six, November/December 2007, p. 13 [19] Northwoods Documents, http://www.retakingamerica.com/northwoods_page_1.html, March 13, 1962, 15 pp. See also: Northwoods Pentagon Files http://www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/news/20010430/northwoods.pdf [20] Body of Secrets, Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency From the Cold War Through the Dawn of the New Century by James Bamford, Doubleday, New York, 2001, pp. 82, 85 [21] Pentagon Proposed Pretexts for Invasion of Cuba, http://www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/news/20010430/ [22] Body of Secrets, Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency From the Cold War Through the Dawn of the New Century by James Bamford, Doubleday, New York, 2001, p. 84 [23] Body of Secrets, Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency From the Cold War Through the Dawn of the New Century by James Bamford, Doubleday, New York, 2001, pp. 86-87, 88 [24] Israel and the Bomb by Avner Cohen, Columbia University Press, New York, 1998, p. 156 [25] Feminist Gloria Steinem of the CIA, Portland Independent Media Center, http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2005/02/310075.shtml [26] JFK, the CIA, Vietnam, and the Plot to Assassinate John F. Kennedy by L. Fletcher Prouty, Carol Publishing Group, New York, 1992, pp. 314-315 [27] Codex Magica, secret Signs, Mysterious Symbols, and Hidden Codes of the Illuminati by Texe Marrs, River Crest Publishing Austin, Texas, 2006, p. 150 [28] Gerald Ford - Warren Commission Kennedy Assassination Cover-up, http://www.saveourwetlands.org/fordfreemason.html [29] George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography by Webster G. Tarpley & Anton Chaitkin, Chapter 7 [30] Watergate Survivors by Jeanne Meserve, June 12, 1997, http://www.cnn.com/ALLPOLITICS/1997/gen/resources/watergate/meserve [31] Without Honor: Crimes of Camelot and the Impeachment of President Nixon by Jerry Zeifman, New York: Thunders Mouth Press, 1995, Chapter 1 [32] Hillary Rodhams 1974 Watergate Procedures were Ethically Flawed, by Jerry Zeifman, August 16. 1999, http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3950b8757712.htm [33] William Bundy, http://www.nndb.com/people/388/000058214/ [34] History of the CFR, Consensus Endangered, http://www.cfr.org/about/history/cfr/consensus_endangered.html [35] The Sorrows of Empire, Militarism, Secrecy and the End of the Republic by Chalmers Johnson, The American Empire Project, Metropolitan Books, New York, 2004, pp. 131-134 [36] Times Square Bomber Linked With CIA-Controlled Terror Group by Paul Joseph Watson, Prison Planet.com Thursday, May 6, 2010, http://www.infowars.com/times-square-bomber-linked-with-cia-controlled-terror-group/ [37] Is Faisal Shahzad Crazy? If so, hes far from alone by Justin Raimondo, AntiWar.com, May 7, 2010, http://original.antiwar.com/justin/2010/05/06/is-faisal-shahzad-crazy/ [38] Was the Polish President killed over landmark gas deal? by Jane Burgermeister, http://birdflu666.wordpress.com/2010/04/21/was-the-polish-president-killed-over-landmark-gas-deal/ [39] Foreknowledge of A Natural Disaster: Washington was aware that a deadly Tidal Wave was building up in the Indian Ocean by Michel Chossudovsky, December 29, 2004, http://globalresearch.ca/articles/CHO412C.html [40] Bushs response to South Asia disaster: indifference compounded by political incompetence By Patrick Martin, 30 December 30, 2004 [41] Gulf of Mexico Oil Spill Creates Environmental and Political Dilemmas by Steven Mufson, Washington Post, April 27, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/26/AR2010042604308.html [42] The Potential Economic Impact of the Louisiana Oil Spillage by Jennifer Young, May 3, 2010, http://news.suite101.com/article.cfm/the-potential-economic-impact-of-the-louisiana-oil-spillage-a232628 [43] U.S. exempted BPs Gulf of Mexico Drilling From Environmental Impact Study by Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post, May 5, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/04/AR2010050404118.html?hpid=topnews [44] Oil Spill Concerns Turn to Compensation by Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post, May 4, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/03/AR2010050301669.html [45] BPs trail of Accidents, Scandals Stretches to Alaska by Craig Welch, Seattle Times, May 6, 2010, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2011791796_bpalaska06m.html [46] The Potential Economic Impact of the Louisiana Oil Spillage by Jennifer Young, May 3, 2010, http://news.suite101.com/article.cfm/the-potential-economic-impact-of-the-louisiana-oil-spillage-a232628 [47] New Order of Barbarians - Transcript of Tapes I-III, http://100777.com/node/19
Return to False Flag Operations
