# Final warning a history of the new world order afterword

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/history_nwo/history_nwo_afterword.htm

Final warning
a history of the new world order
afterword
When I began this odyssey in 1978, I never really understood the fervency that was put within me. To be quite frank, although I had been taken to church from a young age, at that time I was not even living for the Lord. Yet, I found myself totally consumed and driven in my search for knowledge about an organization through which Bible prophecy was being fulfilled. Most people who dont consider themselves a Christian, generally dont spend all of their free time working on a manuscript about a group whose is paving the way for the coming of the Antichrist. But I guess because of the years that I did spend in Church, God had instilled something in me, which I didnt know was there.
When I was 2-1/2 years old, I was hit by a car, and suffered a fractured skull. When I was 29 years old, my appendix ruptured, but because of a misdiagnosis, I was not operated on till the next day. Afterward, someone said to me that people have sometimes died within the hour of an appendix bursting. Without a doubt, God had His hand on me. He had spared me for some reason for some purpose. I began to realize that I had a destiny to fulfill.
After Final Warning was initially published in 1994, God really began working on me. With all the doors that opened, it wasnt hard to see His hand at work. On April 14, 1996, I got down on my knees and gave my heart to the Lord.
My wife was always trying to get me to go to Church, but I was always too busy doing things. One day she said that the Church was having a special service that Saturday, that there was going to be a prophetess there. Whoa, Nelly! A prophetess? Listen, I grew up in a spirit-filled church, and I was accustomed to God speaking to the Church through the gift of tongues. But a prophetess cmon. Thats Old Testament stuff. God doesnt speak through people anymore. Well, I agreed to go anyway. But I was going as a skeptic.
After the prophetess was finished ministering to the church, she began to have people stand up, and she was saying things to them. To be quite honest, being that I was skeptical; I wasnt even paying attention to what was going on. But then all of a sudden, she asked my wife and I to stand up. Uh oh.
In part, this is what she said to me:
Theres a day of rebuilding the wall that has been broken down Were rebuilding the wall like Nehemiah rebuilt the wall the rebuilding of some things that were torn down, that you might know that my plan still lives and that my vision still remains Theres a rebuilding of the wall, for once its built, Im going to show you how to be a watchman upon that wall Son, that you might stand tall, knowing that I have appointed you, and I have called you; let me recommission you
Now, you have to realize that this lady did not know me, neither did the pastors. When I you a young boy, I was told on two occasions (that I can remember), that I was going to grow up to be a preacher. The only one who knew that was my mother. As I stood there weeping, I knew that I had truly received a Word from the Lord. To say that this moment was a turning point in my life, is an understatement. My destiny had been revealed to me in a very powerful way.
I started to become very frustrated in my efforts to get Final Warning printed by a larger publisher who would have the distribution capabilities to market it to a much wider audience. One Sunday morning (March 1, 1998) I got up early to pray, and I said to the Lord that if there was a work He wanted me to do, He would have to give me the tools to do it. Two days later, a brother walked up to me after the Church service and said: God told me to give you my computer. Earlier, that same night, the guest minister gave me this Word from the Lord:
You accurately discerned that the call of God is upon your life. You accurately discerned that there was a future with me. You accurately discerned that the time would come that you would have to serve me, and that you would have to step out
My friend from church brought the computer to my house that Saturday and set it up. The night before, our guest minister gave me the following Word from the Lord:
Theres going to be a day, a time, an hour, that you will have to walk out of where you now stand. You will have to take a step of faith and you will enter into the land. For I will touch your tongue with heavens fire, and you will preach with a holy desire Is this not what youve asked of me to do for you this day Now therefore, hear the word of the Lord, I am going to grant to you the sword. For you have had it in your sheath too long
The Lord equipped me, anointed me, and gave me marching orders. Oh yes, and He gave me a lot of grace too, because now I had a computer, and I didnt even know how to use a mouse. For the next eight months I read books, studied manuals, and made many mistakes; but on November 24, 1998, my website went online for the first time, featuring the online version of my book Final Warning for the entire world to read.
I am honored and I am humbled to be able to use my talents, skills and abilities to serve my God, and I have taken my role as a watchman of the wall very seriously. Ezekiel 33:2-9 tells us what our responsibility is as a watchman:
Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man of their coasts, and set him for their watchman: If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people; Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning; if the sword come, and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his blood shall be upon him.
But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand. So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warn them from me.
When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die; if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it; if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul.
This has been such an incredible year of getting work done on my house, getting rid of stuff, and reorganizing things. Through it all, the word positioning continued to come to me. This year, I began to have more people visiting my website, and all of a sudden, in June, many people wanted copies of Final Warning. Four months later, God opened up a door for it to get published. Our God is an awesome God!
I am determined to walk in the destiny that God has planned and purposed for my life. Right now, I dont know where that destiny may lead, but I have committed to go where He leads. Because I have gotten my book published, some people where I work have joked about me becoming famous. Well, I dont know if God has destined me for greatness, but I do know that He has destined to use me greatly.
Back to Contents
