# Final warning a history of the new world order c3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/history_nwo/history_nwo03.htm

Final warning
a history of the new world order
chapter three
bring the world together
world war 1
World War I began in 1914, and in 1915, the United States, who were not yet involved, lent France and Great Britain $500 million through American banks. In 1916, a single French loan totaled $750 million. In all, the total amount of the loans to these allied countries amounted to $3 billion, plus another $6 billion for exports, none of which were repaid. This was just one of the reasons for Americas entry into the war. Had Germany won, those bonds held by American bankers would have been worthless. J. P. Morgan (who served as Englands financial agent in the U.S.), Rockefeller (who made more than $200,000,000 on the war), Warburg, and Schiff, were instrumental in pushing America into the war, so they could protect their loans to Europe.
The Illuminati-controlled newspapers publicized, and played-up the sinking of the British auxiliary cruiser, the Lusitania, which was torpedoed by a German U-Boat on May 7, 1915. The Germans said they had the right to attack an allied ship, even though the United States, up to that time, had been neutral. The Lusitania, which had been converted into an ammunition war ship early in the war, was armed with guns, and was carrying six million pounds of ammunition, which were to be sold to England and France for use in the war against Germany. It was illegal for American passengers to be on board a ship carrying munitions, and on May 1, 1915, the German embassy in Washington, D.C., ran ads in the New York papers, in addition to verbal announcements, warning Americans that the ship would be attacked. Three months earlier, Germany had issued a proclamation that the waters around the British Isles were part of the war zone, In addition, it was later revealed, that on December 14, 1914, British Intelligence broke the German war code, which meant that the First Lord of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill, knew the location of every U-Boat in the English Channel area.
When the ship was sunk off the coast of Ireland, 1201 people were killed, including 128 Americans. The Illuminati used the incident to create a war fever, portraying the Germans as being barbaric. Because of President Wilsons handling of the Lusitania affair, William Jennings Bryan, his Secretary of State, resigned.
Colonel House was already in England, making firm commitments that America would enter the war; and on April 6, 1917, Congress declared war, selling it as a war to end all wars, and a war to make the world safe for democracy.
When the war was finally over, over 63,000 American soldiers had been killed in the fighting. A year later, in 1919, Lenin offered four-fifths of Soviet territory, in exchange for the formal recognition of his communist government, and economic aid from the United States. He offered to accept the creation of allied-sponsored non-communist states in the Baltic region, in the area of Archangel, Western Byelorussia, half of the Ukraine, Crimea, the Caucasus, the Ural Mountains, and all of Siberia. Wilson rejected the offer for patriotic reasons, because the Illuminati had big plans for that country. Had he accepted the offer, Russia would have never have become a world power.
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS
Before World War I, the Illuminati, using various influential groups in the United States and Great Britain, urged the creation of an organization to promote world peace, even though George Washington warned against involvement with foreign nations. President Wilson favored the idea, and echoed those sentiments in his famous Peace Without Victory speech before the Senate. He proposed his idea of a League of Nations to the Senate in 1917, seeing it as a means of preventing another World War. It would provide collective security, or in other words, an attack on one, would be considered an attack on all. The League would also help in the arbitration of international disputes, the reduction of armaments, and the development of open diplomacy.
The armistice ending World War I on November 11, 1918, was negotiated on the basis of Wilsons Fourteen Points and on June 28, 1919, was included in the Treaty of Versailles, a 20-year truce which divided up Europe, setting the stage for World War II. It demanded that Germany pay war reparations to the victorious countries. The Allies maintained that since Germany was responsible for the War she was liable for the costs and damages incurred by the victors. This amount was set at $32 billion, plus interest; which called for annual payments of $500 million, plus a 26% surcharge on exports. The agreement forced Germany to forfeit some of her prime provinces, colonies, and natural resources. They signed away their rights, had to make trade concessions, and lost what property they had in those foreign countries.
The Treaty was widely criticized. David Lloyd George, the Prime Minister of England, said: We have written a document that guarantees war in 20 years ... When you place conditions on a people (Germany) that it cannot possibly keep, you force it to either breech the agreement or to war. Either we modify that agreement, and make it tolerable to the German people, or when the new generation comes along they will try again. Lord Curzon, the British Foreign Secretary, said: This is no peace, this is only a truce for twenty years! Even President Wilson was reported to have said: If I were a German, I think I should never sign it.
The League of Nations was signed and sealed at the Paris Peace Conference. Even though the United States was represented by Wilson, Col. House was calling the shots. Bernard Baruch, who, as head of the War Industries Board made about $200,000,000 for himself, was also in the American delegation at the Paris Conference; as well as, Waiter Lippman (who later became a syndicated newspaper columnist), Allen Dulles (who was appointed Director of the CIA in 1951), John Foster Dulles (brother of Allen, who later became the Secretary of State under Eisenhower), and Christian Herter (who became Secretary of State after the death of Dulles). English Prime Minister George was accompanied by Sir Philip Sassoon, a member of the British Privy Council and a direct descendant of Amschel Rothschild. Georges Clemenceau, the French Prime Minister, had at his side, his advisor, Georges Mandel, also known as Jeroboam Rothschild.
The citizens of the United States refused to accept the League of Nations, because they felt it would draw them into future European conflicts. Frank B. Kellogg (who in 1925 became Secretary of State under Coolidge), inspired by the American outlawry of war movement, and supported by those who were disappointed at the failure of the United States to enter the League, proposed a pact to the French Foreign Minister, Aristide Briand in the spring of 1927. Its purpose was to create alliances directed against a possible resurgence of German aggression. This Pact of Paris was signed on August 27, 1928, by 65 nations, who promised to settle all international disputes by peaceful means.
Because of the efforts of Sen. Henry Cabot Lodge, who saw through Wilsons plan, the United States didnt join the League, and in 1921, made a separate peace treaty with Germany and Austria.
The League of Nations, headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, throughout the 1920s, gained new members, and helped settle minor international disputes. However, weakened by the failure of the United States to join, and the restlessness of nations who were not satisfied, such as Japan, Italy and Germany, the Illuminatis second attempt at establishing a one-world government failed. The League had little impact on international affairs, and ceased to exist in 1946 when the United Nations was established.
What the League of Nations did do, was allow the Illuminati to get more of a grip on world finances. Countries which belonged to the League, sought financial aid from the United States, wherein Rockefeller said that no country could get a loan unless the International Bankers controlled the bank. If they had no bank, they were able to set one up. Through the Bank for International Settlement, established in 1930, the Illuminati was able to control more of the worlds money.
SYMBOL OF THE ILLUMINATI
When Weishaupt founded the Order of the Illuminati, he adopted the All-Seeing Eye symbol of Masonry, to be the symbol of the organization. It is the Great Pyramid of Cheops, with the capstone missing, and replaced with an eye. The All-Seeing Eye can be traced back to Chaldea as the Solar Eye, the Eye of Jupiter or Apollo, or the Eye of Providence. Hieroglyphics in ancient Egypt identified the name of the chief Sun God Osiris with a human eye.
On July 4, 1776, Thomas Jefferson (a Mason and Illuminist), John Adams (a Mason), and Ben Franklin (a Mason and Rosicrucian), were appointed by a Committee of the Continental Congress to prepare the Great Seal of the United States to signify that the 13 states had united in an act of independence. After some preliminary work by another, William Barton submitted an Eagle on the pinnacle of a Doric column, the All-Seeing Eye, and the stars (representing a new constellation, or new empire). Bartons second design pushed the All-Seeing Eye to the reverse side, and moved the eagle up to the crest, and placed a phoenix (a mythical bird that would be consumed with fire of its own volition, then be resurrected out of its own ashes, which was the Egyptian symbol of regeneration used by the Rosicrucians) rising from the flames at the columns summit, which was to indicate the revival of the new (America) out of the old (England).
This design was accepted on May 9, 1782 and referred to Charles Thompson (a Mason), the Secretary of Congress on June 13th. The final version, approved and adopted by an act of Congress on June 20, 1782, was the result of a series of committee meetings which combined ideas from Barton, Thompson and Jefferson, who placed a triangle around the eye, added the year 1776, E Pluribus Unum, the olive branch on the front, stars above the eagle, and other things. Within weeks, a brass plate of the face of the Great Seal was produced, but not the reverse side.
Although the design of the seal was not to deviate from the one approved, when the original wore out, and a second engraving in 1841 was ordered by Secretary of State Daniel Webster. The design by French artist R. P. Lamplier and cut by John V. N. Throop had many subtle differences, such as six, rather than thirteen arrows, and the phoenix clearly became an eagle. Referred to as the Websterian Great Seal, it was used until 1885.
The third engraving was prepared in 1885 under Secretary of State F. T. Frelinghuysen and cut by Tiffany and Co.; and the fourth engraving, under Secretary of State John Hay, engraved by Max Zeiler, and cut by Baily, Banks & Biddle; were both consistent with the design passed by law in 1782.
A committee appointed by Frelinghuysen, consisting of Theodore F. Dwight (Chief of the Bureau of Rolls and Library of the State Department), Justin Winsor (historian), Charles Eliot Norton (Harvard professor), William H. Whitmore (genealogist), John Denison Chaplin, Jr. (associate editor of American Cyclopedia) and James Horton Whitehouse (designer for Tiffany and Co. in New York City) decided that a die for the reverse side of the seal would not be produced and used as an official seal. Norton called it a dull emblem of a Masonic fraternity. However, a 1957 pamphlet by the U.S. Government Printing Office, called The Seal of the United States, indicated that in 1885 a die may have been cut, but never used.
Celestia Root Lang (editor and publisher of Divine Life magazine from the Independent Theosophical Society of America) wrote in 1917: The reverse side must have been designed by a mystic, one versed in symbolism ... The time will come ... when the white stone (pyramid capstone) will become the headstone of the corner of our government ... in proclaiming a new religion in which all spiritual currents flowing from every religion shall meet in the perfection of the white stone ... having neither dogma nor doctrine ... We see in Mr. Barton only the facade of the instrument; that if he himself was not a mystic or seer, then, a Master (thought to have been Thomas Paine) stood behind him.
Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. wrote in his book The Coming of the New Deal, that Vice President Henry A. Wallace (a Mason) was fascinated by the occult, and was impressed enough with the significance of the reverse side of the Great Seal to lobby Treasury Secretary Morganthau to have it put on the back of the one dollar bill in 1935. Wallace later ran for President as a Socialist. What this gesture meant, was that the Illuminati had finally reached the point where they could set into motion their plans for the New World Order by initiating the destruction of our Constitution.
The front side of the Great Seal, or the Eagle, is well known. It is used to seal all governmental documents. The reverse side displays a pyramid, with an eye in the capstone and a Latin inscription around it. This seems to be a continuation of the Masonic symbolism found on the front. The number thirteen is displayed prominently, and was thought to have referred to the thirteen colonies. However, the number thirteen was a mystical number to the Egyptians and Babylonians, and also the Masons.
There are:
13 stars in the crest 13 stripes and bars in the shield 13 olive leaves 13 olives 13 arrows in the right claw 13 feathers in the arrows 13 letters in Annuit Coeptis 13 letters in E Pluribus Unum 13 courses of stone in the pyramid 13 X 9 dots in the divisions around the crest
13 stars in the crest
13 stripes and bars in the shield
13 olive leaves
13 olives
13 arrows in the right claw
13 feathers in the arrows
13 letters in Annuit Coeptis
13 letters in E Pluribus Unum
13 courses of stone in the pyramid
13 X 9 dots in the divisions around the crest
It has been said that the cluster of 13 five-pointed stars above the head of the eagle is actually a representation of a hexagram, which is the most evil of all occult symbols, and is used to invoke Satan.
This is not to be confused with the Star of David, Mogen David, or Seal of Solomon, which consists of two interlaced equilateral triangles, which symbolize the union of God and man.
There are 32 long feathers on the right wing which represent the 32 degrees in Scottish Rite Masonry, and there are 33 feathers on the left, which represent the 33 degrees of York Rite Freemasonry. The pyramid has thirteen levels, said to represent the 13 bloodlines; and within the capstone is an eye. It is not the eye of God, as we have been taught to believe. It stems from Masonic tradition, where it is known as the Eye of Horus (the Sun God), or the All-Seeing Eye, which refers to the protection of Providence, whose eye never slumbers nor sleeps, alluding to the Big Brother system of constant surveillance. To the Illuminati, it represents the eye of Satan, who its members worship.
The pyramid represents the organizational structure of the Illuminati, and the capstone containing the eye, represents the House of Rothschild, who control the group, and have perpetuated the goal of one-world government. Some sources claim that on the top level, the 1st block represents the Council of 13 (the 13 most powerful witches), the 2nd block represents the Council of 33 (33 highest ranking Masons in the world), and the 3rd block is the Council of 500 (500 richest people and corporations in the world).
According to the original Treasury Department press release of August 15, 1935, which gave details of the symbol being put on the back of the one dollar bill, said the following: The eye and triangular glory symbolize an all-seeing Deity. The pyramid is the symbol of strength and its unfinished condition denoted the belief of the designers of the Great Seal that there was still work to be done. Notice they said Deity, and not God.
The news release indicated that the Latin phrase Annuit Coeptis is translated as he (God) favored our undertakings, and comes from Virgils audacibus annue coeptis or favor my daring undertaking, which refers to the golden age during which the Saturnian (Saturn was the father of Osiris) kingdom shall return. Novus Ordo Seclorum is translated as a new order of the ages, which is taken from Virgils magnus ab integro seclorum nascitur ordo or the great series of ages begins anew. To the Illuminati, the combination of these two Latin phrases is translated as: Announcing the Birth of a New Secular Order.
The date 1776, found at the base of the pyramid in Roman numerals, doesnt refer to July 4th, the date of the countrys independence; but May 1st, when the Illuminati was founded. May 1st is also an international holiday for all workers, known as May Day, which was established in 1889 at the International Socialist Congress.
Now, take a pen, and on the seal on the left side of the bill, find the word Annuit and draw a circle around the first letter A. Find the word Coeptis and draw a circle around the last letter S. Find the word Novus and draw a circle around the first letter N. Find the word Ordo and draw a circle around the last letter O. Find the word Seclorum and draw a circle around the last letter M. Now, take your pen, and starting from N to the top of the capstone, back down to M and back over to N (utilizing the entire pyramid as one triangle). Then draw a line from A to S then down to O and then back up to A which is the second triangle. Not only will you will see a representation of the six-pointed star, but you will also an anagram that spells the word M-A-S-O-N.
The reverse side of the Great Seal, which can be found in the Meditation Room of the United Nations, has never been used to seal one document in this countrys history, and it never will, because it is the seal of the Illuminati.
Back to Contents
