# Final warning a history of the new world order c09

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/history_nwo/history_nwo09.htm

Final warning
a history of the new world order
chapter Nine
Ready to Spring the Trap
THE TRILATERAL COMMISSION In July, 1944, during World War II, economist John Maynard Keynes of England, and Harry Dexter White of the United States, organized the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference (or Bretton Woods Conference) in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, to lay out a plan for stabilizing the world economy.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was signed; and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) and International Monetary Fund were established. In the early 1960s, the American economy began declining, and the international situation became unbalanced again. On August 15, 1971, President Nixon announced a new economic policy. The dollar was devalued, and its convertibility to gold was suspended. He initiated a 90day wage price freeze, stimulative tax and spending cuts, and placed a temporary 10% tariff on most U.S. imports.
Japan and Western Europe were pressured into relaxing their trade barriers, in order to give the United States more access to them; and Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Taiwan were requested to decrease the flow of goods and textiles into the country. These moves offered relief to the countrys economic woes, but was an indication that Nixon was retreating from the global policies which were formulated during the 1960s. This series of drastic changes in the U.S. international policy motivated David Rockefeller (a Director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and head of the Illuminati in the U.S.), who, after attending the Bilderberg Conference and consulting with Zbigniew Brzezinski, wanted to bring the best brains in the world to bear on problems of the future.
Speaking at the Chase Manhattan International Financial Forums in London, Brussels, Montreal, and Paris, he proposed the creation of an International Commission of Peace and Prosperity (which would later become the Trilateral Commission) in early 1972. At the 1972 Bilderberger meeting, the idea was widely accepted, but elsewhere, it got a cool reception. According to Rockefeller, the organization could be of help to government by providing measured judgment. Zbigniew Brzezinski, a professor at Columbia University, and a Rockefeller advisor, who was a specialist on international affairs, left his post to organize the group with Henry Owen (a Foreign Policy Studies Director with the Brookings Institution), George S. Franklin, Robert Bowie (of the Foreign Policy Association and Director of the Harvard Center for International Affairs), Gerard Smith (Salt I negotiator, Rockefeller inlaw, and its first North American Chairman), Marshall Hornblower, William Scranton (former Governor of Pennsylvania), Edwin Reischauer (a professor at Harvard), and Max Kohnstamm (European Policy Centre).
Brzezinski was the author of the book Between Two Ages, which was published in 1970, in which he called for a new international monetary system, and it was considered to be the Bible of the Trilateralists. On page 72, he said: Marxism is simultaneously a victory of the external, active man over the inner, passive man and a victory of reason over belief. He called for deliberate management of the American future (pg. 260), a community of nations (pg. 296), and a world government (pg. 308). He became its first Director (197376), drafted its Charter, and became its driving force. Funding for the group came from David Rockefeller, the Charles F. Kettering Foundation, and the Ford Foundation. Journalist Bill Moyers (a CFR member), wrote about the power of David Rockefeller in 1980: David Rockefeller is the most conspicuous representative today of the ruling class, a multinational fraternity of men who shape the global economy and manage the flow of its capital ... Private citizen David Rockefeller is accorded privileges of a head of state ... He is untouched by customs or passport offices and hardly pauses for traffic lights. In his 1979 book Whos Running America?, Thomas Dye said that Rockefeller was the most powerful man in America. In July, 1972, Rockefeller called his first meeting, which was held at Rockefellers Pocantico compound in New Yorks Hudson Valley. It was attended by about 250 individuals who were carefully selected and screened by Rockefeller and represented the very elite of finance and industry. Within a year, after their first full meeting of the Executive Committee in Tokyo, the Trilateral Commission, considered to be an offshoot of the Bilderberger group, was officially initiated, holding biannual meetings. Because of a heavy crossmembership, some researchers have said that they appear to be an inner circle of the Council on Foreign Relations (and also have ties to the Atlantic Institute for International Affairs, which was established in 1961 as a sort of public arm of NATO), and represent a union of experts and transnational elite from the three noncommunist industrial regions of the world: North America, Japan, and Western Europe (excluding Austria, Greece, and Sweden).
Rockefeller saw the need for such a private consultation among these three democratic areas. With the demise of the Bretton Woods system, they believed an overhaul was needed. The theory was, that Americas role should be diminished, and made equal to the Common Market and Japan, because together, the three represented 70% of the worlds trade. In 1973, David Rockefeller met with 27 heads of state, including representatives from the Soviet Union and China; and in 1974, had a meeting with Pope Paul VI, who afterward called for the nations to form a world government. A Trilateral Commission Task Force Report, presented at the 1975 meeting in Kyoto, Japan, called An Outline for Remaking World Trade and Finance, said: Close Trilateral cooperation in keeping the peace, in managing the world economy, and in fostering economic development and in alleviating world poverty, will improve the chances of a smooth and peaceful evolution of the global system. Another Commission document read:
The overriding goal is to make the world safe for interdependence by protecting the benefits which it provides for each country against external and internal threats which will constantly emerge from those willing to pay a price for more national autonomy. This may sometimes require slowing the pace at which interdependence proceeds, and checking some aspects of it. More frequently however, it will call for checking the intrusion of national government into the international exchange of both economic and noneconomic goods.
In other words, they were promoting world government by encouraging economic interdependence among the superpowers. This littleknown organization is actually controlled by the Rockefellers, who oversee its activities and provide guidance for their policies. Their membership consists of over 300 members (with membership ceilings of 107 from North America, 150 from Western Europe, and 117 from PacificAsian), is made up of top bankers, industrialists, businessmen, labor leaders, scholars, politicians, senators, and governors.
They only consider people interested in promoting close international cooperation, especially among noncommunist industrial nations, which actually means they advocate a oneworld government. Many Cabinet level officers, and advisors, from the Kennedy Administration to the Clinton Administration have served on the Commission. There is a Chairman (former Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley is the current North American Chairman), Deputy Chairman, and Director for each of the three areas, as well as a 44 member Executive Committee, with such recognizable names as: C. Fred Bergsten (former U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs), Zbigniew Brzezinski, Joseph S. Nye, Jr. (Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and former U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs), and Paul Volcker (former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and a former North American Chairman of the Trilateral Commission, 19912001). An analysis of one of their threeyear budgets of $1.67 million, indicated that $644,000 came from foundations, $530,000 from corporations, $220,000 from individual contributors, $180,000 from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, $150,000 from David Rockefellers personal account, $100,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation, and $84,000 from investment income. The Commission holds an annual threeday meeting, rotated among the three areas, to discuss the world monetary situation, and other economic and military issues; and sometimes have regional meetings. The meetings are closed to the public, and the media is denied access. There are three headquarters, Washington, D.C. (1156 Fifteenth Street, NW), Paris (5, rue de Téhéran), and Tokyo (Japan Center for International Exchange, 41917 MinamiAzabu, Minatoku). Each branch has a small fulltime staff. The organization had published a quarterly magazine, called the Trialogue. The first three issues of the year were devoted to significant international matters, while the fourth, covered in detail, their annual meeting. It was discontinued in 1985 to help lower expenses. However, they do still publish a report about their annual meeting. Their Task Force Reports usually take up to a year to prepare, and they are always written by at least three experts, representing each region. The Commission has been served by internationalists drawn from firms like:
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co., Chase Manhattan, Citicorp, Morgan Guaranty, Bank of America, Lloyds of London, Bank of Tokyo, Barclays Bank, Compagnie Financiere Holding, Brown Brothers, Harriman and Co., Fuji Bank, Banque de Paris, Provincial Bank of Canada, TorontoDominion Bank, First City Bancorp, Bank of Italy, Industrial Bank of Japan, Mitsui Bank, Chemical Bank, Mitsubishi Bank, and the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co.
The Commission has been served by corporate officers from companies like: Boeing, CocaCola, Japan Air Lines, Volkswagenwerk, Ford Motor Co., Deere, Caterpillar Tractor, Cargill, Cummins Engine, Xerox, Sony, Toyota, Johnson & Johnson, Fiat, Dunlop, RollsRoyce, Thyssen, Bendix, Texas Instruments, Exxon, Texaco, Mobil, Arco, Pepsico, Rand Corp., RJR Nabisco, Levi Strauss, Archer Midland Daniels, CocaCola, American Express, ITT Corp, HewlettPackard, Kaisar Resources, Shell, Mitsubishi, Hitachi, Nippon Steel, Sears and Roebuck, Weyerhaeuser, and General Motors. They have been served by such Union leaders as: Lane Kirkland (President of the AFLCIO), I. W. Abel (President of the United Steel Workers of America), Leonard Woodcock (United Auto Workers), Sol Chaikin (President of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union), Albert Shanker (American Federation Of Teachers), Jay Mazur (Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees), and Glenn Watts (President of the Communications Workers of America). The Commission has some of its members in such branches of the media as: New York Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Minneapolis Star and Tribune, Los Angeles Times, Chicago Sun Times, Kyodo News Service, Japan Times, La Stampa, Die Ziet, Financial Times, Columbia Broadcasting (CBSTV), The Economist, Japan Broadcasting Corp., Time, Associated Press, and United Press International. A good example of how the Trilateral Commission influences the media, could be seen in the January 15, 1981 episode of the ABCTV show Barney Miller. A man was arrested for breaking into the offices of the Commission, and when he was taken to the 12th Precinct, he began ranting and raving about how the Commission was attempting to set up an international community and how they eventually wanted to take over the world.
The character, William Klein (played by Jeffrey Tambor) was made to look like a fool, and upon leaving the squad room, Detective Sgt. Arthur Dietrich (played by Steve Landesberg) said: Well, I think you have some very valid criticisms of the Commission, and Im certainly gonna bring them up at the next meeting. After Dietrich tells the man he was a Trilateral member, which he wasnt, the man reacted: Oh God, no... The character was made to look like a paranoid maniac, reminiscent of the McCarthy era. This was only one of the many propaganda pieces that was used to make the Commission look just like any other organization. This is the principle that the Illuminati has used for years to slant the news, so that the public will accept their views. In the late 1800s, at an annual dinner of the American Press Association, John Swinton, an editor at the New York Times, said:
There is no such thing, at this date, of the worlds history, in America, as an independent press. You know it and I know it. There is not one of you who dares to write your honest opinions, and if you did, you know beforehand that it would never appear in print. I am paid weekly for keeping my honest opinions out of the paper I am connected with. Others of you are paid similar salaries for similar things, and any of you who would be so foolish as to write honest opinions would be out on the streets looking for another job. If I allowed my honest opinions to appear in one issue of my paper, before twentyfour hours my occupation would be gone. The business of the journalist is to destroy truth; to lie outright; to pervert; to vilify; to fawn at the feet of mammon, and to sell his country and his race for his daily bread. You know it and I know it and what folly is this toasting an independent press? We are the tools and vassals for rich men behind the scenes. We are the jumping jacks, they pull the strings and we dance. Our talents, our possibilities, and our lives are all the property of other men. We are intellectual prostitutes.
There is no such thing, at this date, of the worlds history, in America, as an independent press. You know it and I know it. There is not one of you who dares to write your honest opinions, and if you did, you know beforehand that it would never appear in print. I am paid weekly for keeping my honest opinions out of the paper I am connected with. Others of you are paid similar salaries for similar things, and any of you who would be so foolish as to write honest opinions would be out on the streets looking for another job.
If I allowed my honest opinions to appear in one issue of my paper, before twentyfour hours my occupation would be gone. The business of the journalist is to destroy truth; to lie outright; to pervert; to vilify; to fawn at the feet of mammon, and to sell his country and his race for his daily bread. You know it and I know it and what folly is this toasting an independent press? We are the tools and vassals for rich men behind the scenes. We are the jumping jacks, they pull the strings and we dance. Our talents, our possibilities, and our lives are all the property of other men. We are intellectual prostitutes.
David Rockefeller said in a Saturday Evening Post article he wrote to defend his group:
My point is that far from being a coterie of international conspirators with designs on covertly ruling the world, the Trilateral Commission is, in reality, a group of concerned citizens interested in fostering greater understanding and cooperation among international allies.
However, those who have penetrated the inner workings of the organization, say the real purpose of the Commission is to take over all key policymaking positions in the government. Antony Sutton wrote in the Trilateral Observer that the Trilateralists have rejected the U.S. Constitution and the democratic political process; and their objective is to obtain the wealth of the world for their own use, under the guise of public service, and to have, ultimately, a oneworld socialist government, with them in control. Conservative critics claim the Commission constitutes a conspiracy seeking to gain control of the U.S. Government to create a new world order. Mike Thompson, Chairman of the Florida Conservative Union, said: It puts emphasis on interdependence, which is a nice euphemism for oneworld government. The John Birch Society suspects them of being radical infiltrators of the government. Sen. Barry Goldwater wrote in his book With No Apologies:
In my view, the Trilateral Commission represents a skillful, coordinated effort to seize control and consolidate the four centers of power: political, monetary, intellectual, and ecclesiastical. All this is to be done in the interest of creating a more, peaceful, more productive world community. What the Trilateralists truly intend is the creation of a worldwide economic power superior to the political governments of the nationstates involved. They believe the abundant materialism they propose to create will overwhelm existing differences. As managers and creators of the system they will rule the future.
On the left, the U.S. Labor Party alleges that the Commission was created by multinational companies in order to dominate American foreign policy. Upon analysis, their economic plans leaned toward the controlling of energy sources, food production, and the international monetary system, so was there any reason to doubt that there were ulterior motives to their agenda. The July, 1977 issue of Atlantic Monthly reported: Although the Commissions primary concern is economic, the Trilateralists pinpointed a vital political objective: to gain control of the American Presidency. The author of the article, Jeremiah Novak, said: For the third time in this century, a group of American schools, businessmen, and government officials is planning to fashion a new world order and that they had achieved one of their objectives, which was to gain control of the American Presidency.
Craig S. Karpel wrote in his November, 1977, Penthouse magazine article (first of three) Cartergate: The Death of Democracy:
The presidency of the United States and the key cabinet departments of the federal government have been taken over by a private organization dedicated to the subordination of the domestic interests of the United States to the international interests of the multinational banks and corporations. It would be unfair to say that the Trilateral Commission dominates the Carter Administration. The Trilateral Commission is the Carter Administration.
Late in 1972, W. Averell Harriman (known at that time as the grand old man of the Democrats), Establishment strategist and CFR member, told Milton Katz (also a CFR member), Director of International Studies at Harvard: Weve got to get off our high horses and look at some of those southern governors. Carter was mentioned, and Katz informed Rockefeller, who had actually met with Carter in 1971, when they had lunch in the Chase Manhattans Board of Directors dining room, and he was impressed with the fact that Carter had opened trade offices for the state of Georgia in Tokyo. In February, 1973, while former Secretary of State Dean Rusk (a Bilderberger) was having dinner with Gerald Smith (U.S. AmbassadoratLarge for NonProliferation Matters), Rusk suggested that Carter would be a good candidate for the Commission. In April, while Robert Bowie (former professor of International Affairs at Harvard, who later became Deputy Director of the CIA), George S. Franklin (Rockefeller assistant, CFR member, and Coordinator for the Commission), and Smith were discussing the recruitment of candidates, it was decided that they needed better representation from the South. Franklin went to Atlanta to talk to Carter, and then proposed his name for membership. It had been a choice between Carter, and Gov. Reuben Askew of Florida. In the fall of 1973, after having dinner with David Rockefeller in London, Carters political momentum began. From that point on, he was groomed for the Presidency by Zbigniew Brzezinski, and the Trilateralists. Just to be on the safe side, they also brought in Minnesota Senator Walter Mondale (a protege of Hubert Humphrey, whose eventual withdrawal from the Presidential race guaranteed the Democratic nomination for Carter), and Rep. Elliot Richardson (former U.S. Attorney General; Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and Secretary of Defense, and Under Secretary of State under Nixon; former Secretary of Commerce under Ford; and former Ambassador to Great Britain) as possible candidates, and even considered Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts. Brzezinski said in an October, 1973 speech: The Democratic candidate will have to emphasize work, family, religion, and increasingly, patriotism, if he has any desire to be elected. Carter campaigned by stressing those very virtues, as he asked America to elect him, an outsider, to clean up the mess in Washington. In December, 1975, seven months before the Democratic National Convention, the Gallop Poll indicated that only 4% of the countrys Democrats wanted Carter. Even the Atlantic Constitution in his own state, ran a headline which said: Jimmy Carter Running For What? Within six months, the nomination was his because of the most elaborate media campaign in history. Carter was glorified as the new hope of America as the media misrepresented his record as Governor in Georgia.
This led former Georgia Governor Lester Maddox to say: Based on false, misleading and deceiving statements and actions ... Jimmy Carter in my opinion, neither deserves or should expect one vote from the American people. According to the Dektor Psychological Stress Evaluator, a lie detector which measures voice stress with an oscillograph, there was no stress in Carters voice when he lied, which would seem to indicate that he is a pathological liar. Even though Carter later resigned from the Commission, he was hardly an outsider. He was supported by the Trilateral Commission, the Rockefellers, and Time magazine. Early contributions came from Dean Rusk, C. Douglas Dillon, Henry Luce, and Cyrus Eaton. Leonard Woodcock of the United Auto Workers Union, and Henry Ford II, both of whom are CFR members, endorsed Carter on the same day. Carters two major foreign policy speeches during the primary campaign were made to the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and the Foreign Policy Association.
He used terms like a just and peaceful world order, and a new international order. In another primary campaign speech, Carter talked about worldorder politics. A Los Angeles Times article in June, 1976, identified the advisors that helped Carter prepare his first major speech on foreign policy: Zbigniew Brzezinski, Richard Cooper, Richard Gardner, Henry Owen, Edwin O. Reischauer, Averill Harriman, Anthony Lake, Robert Bowie, Milton Katz, Abram Chayes, George Ball, and Cyrus Vance; who were all members of the CFR (and most were also members of the Trilateral Commission). Carters religious convictions became a big part of his campaign, but things werent really what they seemed. Carter claimed that his favorite theologian was Reinhold Niebuhr (a procommunist), former professor at the Union Theological Seminary (which had been funded by the Rockefellers), who founded the Americans for Democratic Action. He denied the virgin birth, and the resurrection of Christ. Carter also admired Karl Barth (who said the Bible was fallible, and filled with historic and scientific blunders, and theological contradictions), Paul Tillich, and Soren Kierkegaad, all liberals who led the God is Dead movement during the 1960s. Carter told his sister, evangelist Ruth Carter Stapleton, that he wouldnt give up politics for Christ. He admitted he wasnt bornagain until 1967, yet he joined a Southern Baptist Church when he was 10, taught Sunday School at 16, and became a deacon in the church in his twenties.
In the infamous Playboy magazine interview, Carter said: Ive looked on a lot of women with lust. Ive committed adultery in my heart many times.
When he found out that California Governor Jerry Brown was throwing his hat in the ring for a run at the presidency, a supporter said that Carter used expletives which I didnt know he knew. In the 1980 campaign, Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy accused Carter of not being more specific on the issues, to which Carter responded: I dont have to kiss his ass. During his acceptance speech, after winning the nomination at the Democratic National Convention, Carter attacked the unholy, selfperpetuating alliances (that) have been formed between money and politics ... a political and economic elite who have shaped decisions and never had to account for mistakes nor to suffer from injustice.
When unemployment prevails, they never stand in line for a job. When deprivations results from a confused welfare system, they never do without food, or clothing or a place to sleep. When public schools are inferior or torn by strife, their children go to exclusive private schools. And when bureaucracy is bloated and confused, the powerful always manage to discover and occupy niches of special influence and privilege. Now the trap was set, and America fell for it, hook, line, and sinker. After Carter beat Ford, Hamilton Jordan, his chief aide, said: If, after the inauguration, you find Cy Vance (former President of the Rockefeller Foundation) as Secretary of State and Zbigniew Brzezinski as head of National Security, then I would say we have failed. In an interview with Playboy magazine, Jordan said he would quit if they were appointed. They were he didnt. Brzezinski had become Carters biggest influence. Henry Kissinger had called Brzezinski his distinguished presumptive successor. It was Brzezinski who said:
The approaching twohundredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence could justify the call for a national constitutional convention to reexamine the nations formal institutional framework. Either 1976 or 1989 the twohundredth anniversary of the Constitution could serve as a suitable target date culminating a national dialogue on the relevance of existing arrangements...
When James Earl Carter took the oath of office, he said that the United States will help erect ... a world order. This selfproclaimed outsider filled many of his administrative posts with establishment insiders from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Brookings Institution, and Coca Cola. Extracted from Coke, were George Ball, Clark Clifford, Samuel P. Huntingdon, Marshall Shulman, Richard Gardner, Henry Owen, Robert Roosa, and J. Paul Austin. Because of the extent to which he used the company when he was governor, he called the CocaCola company, his own State Department. The Trilateral Commission had accomplished its goal of controlling the Presidency, and it heralded that fact by making Jimmy Carter Time magazines Man of the Year in January, 1977. The Editorin Chief for Time was Hedley Donovan, a Rhodes Scholar, and member of the Commission. Commission members must resign when they accept positions in the Executive branch, but they remain loyal, and usually rejoin the group when their service is complete. About 40% of the American Trilateral members joined the Carter Administration. In all, 291 members of the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations joined the Administration. Among the Carter Administration officials who have been members:
Jimmy Carter (President), Walter F. Mondale (Vice President), Cyrus Vance (Secretary of State, nephew of John W. Davis, of the J. P. Morgan bank who was the first President of the CFR), W. Michael Blumenthal (Secretary of Treasury), Harold Brown (Secretary of Defense), Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor), Andrew Young (Ambassador to the United Nations), Paul A. Volcker (Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board), Sol Linowitz (Chief Negotiator on the Panama Canal Treaties/MidEast Envoy), John C. Sawhill (Deputy Secretary of Energy/Head of the Synthetic Fuels Corp.), Hedley Donovan (Special Assistant to the President), Lloyd N. Cutler (Counsel to the President), Gerald C. Smith (Ambassador at Large for Nuclear Power Negotiations), Richard N. Gardner (Ambassador to Italy), Elliot L. Richardson (Delegate to the UN Law of the Sea Conference), Henry Owen (Special Representative of the President for Economic Summits/Economic Advisor), Warren Christopher (Deputy Secretary of State), Paul C. Warnke (Director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Richard N. Cooper (Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs), Lucy Wilson Benson (Under Secretary of State for Security Affairs), Anthony Solomon (Deputy Secretary of State for Monetary Affairs), Robert R. Bowie (Deputy Director of Intelligence for National Estimates), W. Anthony Lake (Under Secretary of State for Policy Planning), Richard Holbrooke (Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs), C. Fred Bergsten (Assistant Secretary of Treasury for International Affairs), Leslie Gelb (Director of the Bureau of PoliticoMilitary Affairs), Theordore C. Sorenson (Director of the Central Intelligence Agency), Richard Moose (Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs), Brock Adams (Secretary of Transportation), Leonard Woodcock (U.S. Ambassador to Peking), and Joseph Califano (Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare)
U.S. News and World Report reported: The Trilateralists have taken charge of foreign policymaking in the Carter Administration, and already the immense power they wield is sparking some controversy. Active or former members of the Trilateral Commission now head every key agency involved in mapping U.S. strategy for dealing with the rest of the world. Being dominated by the chief advisors of the Commission, almost every aspect of Carters foreign policy reflected a Trilateral viewpoint.
They took advantage of Carters ignorance of foreign policy, which became a series of concessions to Cuba, Panama, Red China, and Russia:
1) The Panama Canal was given away by the Carter Administration in a treaty negotiated by Sol Linowitz of the Commission. The reason Marxist Panamanian leader Omar Torrijos owed the International Bankers $2 billion in loan payments, so income received from the Canal could help pay them back. The U.S. also guaranteed a 5year program of loans and credits, which amounted to $295 million; and a 10 year, $50 million arms sale agreement to bolster the defense of the Canal. 2) Carters withdrawal of a large number of troops from South Korea opened the area up for possible communist aggression from North Korea. 3) The Carter Administration granted full diplomatic relations with Red China, so American industry could begin trade with the communist government. When Carter broke off diplomatic relations with the government of Taiwan, Sen. Goldwater said at a news conference: I have no idea what motivated him other than the Trilateral Commission, composed of bankers in this country and others, want to expand big business ... He did it for the big banks of the world Chase Manhattan and the French bankers and for companies like CocaCola. In May, 1989, George Bush would bestow favorednation trade status to China. 4) In Africa, the Carter Administration was soft on the spread of Marxism. 5) Carter pledged his support for communistdominated Hungary, and gave its dictator, Janos Kadar, the priceless Crown of St. Stephen (the founder and patron saint of Hungary) which the U.S. had in its possession since 1945.
In a 1978 meeting with 200 Trilateralists at the White House, Carter said that if the Commission had been in existence after World War I, they would have prevented World War II. However, we know that they were in existence after World War I, and precipitated World War II. In his book Why Not the Best, Carter said: Membership on this Commission has provided me with a splendid learning opportunity, and many other members have helped me in my study of foreign affairs. Carters membership in the organization was the only foreign policy experience he had, and that was limited to attending a couple of conferences in Europe and Japan.
Congressman John Anderson, himself a member, said that Carter became a member just to improve his image. Carters indoctrination made him a willing pawn in furthering the goals of the Trilateral Commission.
In a personal letter to the Commission, who was meeting in Tokyo, Japan, in January, 1977, he wrote:
We share economic, political, and security concerns that make it logical we should seek ever increasing cooperation and understanding. And this cooperation is essential not only for our three regions, but in the global search for a more just and equitable world order.
The Commission, which operates in literal secrecy, made news in the fall of 1979, when David Rockefeller, Henry Kissinger, and John J. McCloy (former President of the Ford Foundation, former President of the World Bank, Chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank, former High Commissioner to Germany, and on the Advisory Board of Foreign Affairs magazine) pressured Carter into allowing the deposed Shah of Iran (who had financial dealings with the Chase Manhattan) into the country for medical treatment.
The move caused the Iranian government, under the leadership of the Ayatollah Khomeini, to storm the American Embassy, and hold 52 American hostages for nearly 11/2 years. Carters inadequacy in dealing with this situation certainly cost him the election. The Presidential election of 1980 saw two other former Trilateralists running for President. Jimmy Carter was running for reelection, and Illinois Republican, Rep. John Anderson, was running as an Independent. Republican George Bush had resigned his post on the Council on Foreign Relations because they were too liberal, however, he didnt resign his seat on the Commission.
The son of Sen. Prescott Sheldon Bush (RCT, who during the 1930s was on the Board of Directors of Union Banking Corporation of New York, who helped finance the Nazis), had been born in Maine, raised in Connecticut, and was a twoterm Republican Representative from Houston, Texas; became Ambassador to the UN in 1971; Chairman of the Republican National Committee; and from 197677, served as Director of the CIA. George Bush was associated with the international banking firm of Brown Brothers, Harriman and Company (who helped finance the growth of the Soviet Union); and attended Yale, where he was a member of the secret organization known as The Order (or Skull and Bones). This group also had as members: William F. Buckley, Jr., McGeorge Bundy, Winston Lord (former Chairman of the CFR), and other CFR members, who allegedly make up a powerful inner circle that controls the CFR. On March 17, 1980, during the campaign, Ronald Reagan was asked if he would allow Trilateral Commission members to serve in his cabinet, and he responded by saying:
I dont believe that the Trilateral Commission is a conspiratorial group, but I do think its interests are devoted to international banking, multinational corporations, and so forth. I dont think that any Administration of the U.S. Government should have the top nineteen positions filled by people from any one group or organization representing one viewpoint. No, I would go in a different direction.
After a bitter Primary fight between the two, Reagan chose Bush to be his Vice Presidential running mate, over the likes of Rep. Philip Crane from Illinois, and Sen. Jack Kemp from New York.
Reagan had originally wanted former President Ford to be his VicePresident, however, Ford wanted the power to appoint people to the National Security Council and the Cabinet. He also wanted to prepare position papers on foreign policy matters. This situation would have been almost like a coPresidency, making Reagan more of a figurehead, which he refused to be, so his only other option was Bush. Manchester Union Leader publisher William Loeb made the Commission a campaign issue during the New Hampshire Primary by saying:
It is quite clear that this group of extremely powerful men is out to control the world. He accused them of advocating a world order in which multinational corporations ... can thrive without worrying about socalled national interests. During the campaign, Reagan attacked Carters ties to David Rockefeller, and other Trilateral financiers; while Edwin Meese, a Reagan advisor, said that Trilateral influence was responsible for a softening of defense.
Although Reagan appeared to be antiCommission, it was only a front. Reagans Campaign Manager, William J. Casey (former Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who Reagan later appointed as Director of the CIA) was a Trilateralist. His campaign was controlled by such Trilateralists as David Packard, George H. Weyerhaeuser, Bill Brock, Anne Armstrong, Philip M. Hawley, William A. Hewitt, Caspar Weinberger, and others who were CFR members. Reagan had the personal support of David Rockefeller, and belonged to the elitist Bohemian Grove Club in Northern California. The Bohemian Grove is the site of an annual twoweek (including the 3 weekends) summer retreat on a 2,700 acre redwood estate about 75 miles north of San Francisco (near the town of Monte Rio), along the Russian River. It was established in 1872 by five reporters of the San Francisco Examiner as a social club to help elevate journalism to that place in the popular estimation to which it is entitled.
By 1878, when the first Grovefest took place, reporters were being pushed out. Newsweek (August 2, 1982) called it the worlds most prestigious summer camp. There is a $2,500 initiation fee, and annual dues of $600. Nearly every Republican President since Calvin Coolidge has been a member of this conservative clan. President Herbert Hoover called it the greatest mens party on Earth. Among its 2,000 members are other high level government officials, and the very elite of Americas corporate power, who sit on a variety of organizations such as the Trilateral Commission, CFR, and the Committee for Economic Development. Among their members: Alexander Haig, Caspar Weinberger, Richard Nixon, Henry Kissinger, George P. Shultz, Newt Gingrich, Stephen Bechtel, Jr., Alan Greenspan, Gerald R. Ford, Jack Kemp, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Colin Powell, William F. Buckley, Jr., Merv Griffin, Joseph Coors, Edward Teller, Malcolm Forbes, Ronald Reagan, A. W. Clausen, George H. W. Bush, William French Smith, Richard Cheney, and William E. Simon. They own 2530% of all privately held wealth in America, own 6070% of the privately held corporate wealth ... direct the large corporations and foundations, and dominate the federal government in Washington. The bottom line, is that it is one of the most influential meetings of the powersthatbe, and a setting for policymaking on specific issues; and not the allmale social club they purport to be. It has been said that the Manhattan Project (which created the first atomic bomb) was first discussed at the Grove. One of the few stories to emerge was about a 1967 agreement by Ronald Reagan, over a drink with Nixon, to stay out of the upcoming Presidential primaries.
However, after Alex Jones, a patriot talk show host, snuck onto the grounds and secretly videotaped a ritualistic ceremony in front of a 40 foot high concrete owl that they were worshiping, and a mock burning of a human being; rumors began circulating that the owl represented the pagan god Moloch, and that human sacrifices were actually being performed in remote areas. An investigation in the 1980s regarding the allegations turned up nothing. In June of 1993, the Washington Times reported: Presidential counselor David Gergen resigned yesterday from the allmale Bohemian Club, three days after saying he would not run around naked at its annual Bohemian Grove encampment and insisting he would not quit. White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers announced the resignation along with Mr. Gergens departure from 17 other interest groups, charities and public boards ranging from the Trilateral Commission, the Bilderberg Group and Council on Foreign Relations. Reagan received a great deal of support by such Christian political action groups as the Moral Majority, Round Table, and Christian Voice; and on November 6, 1980, said: I think there is an elite in this country and they are the very ones who run an elitist government. They want a government by a handful of people because they dont believe the people themselves can run their lives ... Are we going to have an elitist government that makes decisions for peoples lives, or are we going to believe as we have for so many decades, that the people can make these decisions for themselves?
Sounds a lot like what Carter said. Maybe Reagan was still actingjust on a far bigger stage. The November 24th issue of the U.S. News and World Report revealed: Top officials of the Reagan team have sent a message to the Moral Majority: It isnt your Administration ... Hell with them, VicePresidentelect George Bush declared on November 10th in Houston, referring to rightwing groups that supported the Presidentelect. Reagans 59member transition team who would pick, screen, and propose appointees for major administrative posts, consisted of 28 CFR members, 10 Bilderbergers, and 10 Trilateralists, including CFR members William Simon (former Secretary of Treasury under Nixon and Ford), Alexander Haig, George P. Shultz (former Secretary of Treasury under Nixon), Donald Rumsfeld (former Secretary of Defense under Ford), Alan Greenspan (former Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors), and Henry Kissinger; and Trilateralists, William Casey and Anne Armstrong. A note about George Pratt Shultz his father was Dr. Birl Earl Shultz, who from 191823 was Personnel Director of the American International Corporation in New York, which was located in the same building as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. They had offered $1,000,000 in credits to the Bolsheviks during the Russian Revolution. Shultz was a close friend of Armand Hammers father, Julius Hammer, cofounder of the U.S. Communist Party. George was a member of the Pratt family, who were related to the Rockefellers, and who donated the Pratt mansion to the CFR. According to The Oregonian (1/3/87), George Shultz was quoted as saying: The New Age has already dawned, and a new financial World Order is fast taking shape. Reagan had 287 CFR and Trilateral Commission members in his Administration. Trilateral member, Caspar W. Weinberger (Reagans Finance Director when he was Governor of California, former Vice President of Bechtel Corp., and former Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under Nixon and Ford), became Secretary of Defense. Weinberger said: The Trilateral Commission is performing a very valuable service in strengthening the ties between the United States and our natural allies. Other members who joined the Administration: Alexander Haig (Secretary of State, also a CFR member), George Shultz (Secretary of State, also a CFR member), Nicholas Brady (Secretary of Treasury), Donald Regan (Secretary of Treasury, also a CFR member), John C. Whitehead (Deputy Secretary of State, also a CFR member), Caspar Weinberger (Secretary of Defense, also a CFR member), Frank Carlucci (Deputy Secretary of Defense, also a CFR member), Winston Lord (Ambassador to China, also a CFR member), Malcolm Baldrige (Secretary of Commerce, also a CFR member), William Brock (Secretary of Labor, also a CFR member), Alan Greenspan (Chairman of the Federal Reserve, also a CFR member). Seemingly, Reagan was the Establishments candidate all along, because he played ball with them. Republican Presidential candidate (during the 1980 Primary) John Connally, said that if he was elected, he wouldnt appoint any Trilateralists to his Administration. His campaign quickly ran out of steam and money. The 1984 Presidential campaign had Trilateralists Walter Mondale, Sen. John Glenn from Ohio, and Sen. Alan Cranston from California, fighting for the Democratic nomination among a slate of seven. Cranston had been the President of the United World Federalists. After World War II, he traveled the country saying that disarmament must be done by an international army and a world court. However, he changed his tune when he became a Presidential candidate, and said: I do not feel that world federalism is a realistic objective, and that disarmament does not require world government. When asked about his membership with the United World Federalists, he said: I would point out that at the time I was national president of the United Federalists, one of its more noted members was one Ronald Reagan. Among the Trilateralists in the George H. W. Bush Administration, were Brent Scowcroft (National Security Advisor), and Nicholas F. Brady (Secretary of Treasury). Bush later rejoined. Trilateralists in the Bill Clinton (who was a member) Administration was:
Al Gore (Vice President), Donna E. Shalala (Secretary of Health and Human Services), Alice M. Rivlin (Deputy Budget Director), Madeleine Albright (UN Ambassador), Peter Tarnoff (Under Secretary of State for International Security of Affairs), Warren M. Christopher (Secretary of State), Ronald H. Brown (Secretary of Commerce), Henry G. Cisneros (Secretary of Housing and Urban Development), Bruce Babbitt (Secretary of Interior), Walter Mondale (U.S. Ambassador to Japan), William J. Crowe (Chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board), William S. Cohen (Secretary of Defense), William J. Perry (Secretary of Defense) and Lloyd N. Cutler (Counsel to the President).
The following Trilateralists in the George W. Bush Administration, are also members of the CFR:
Richard B. Cheney, Robert B. Zoellick, Brent Scowcroft (past member), Richard N. Haass, Henry A. Kissinger, Stephen J. Friedman, and Richard N. Perle. Other Trilateralists are Colin L. Powell (Secretary of State), and Donald H. Rumsfeld (Secretary of Defense).
In the 1964 book With No Apologies, by Sen. Barry M. Goldwater, he said:
The Trilateral Commission is intended to be the vehicle for multinational consolidation of the commercial and banking interests by seizing control of the political government of the United States. The Trilateral Commission represents a skillful, coordinated effort to seize control and consolidate the four centers of power, political, monetary, intellectual, and ecclesiastical. What the Trilateralists intend is the creation of a worldwide economic power superior to the political governments of the nation states. In other words, what they are driving, orchestrating, meshing and gearing to accomplish is the New World Order, the oneworld government.
Despite propaganda, the goal of the Commission is to shape public policy, not through overt mass mobilization, but through pressure on select arenas of world power and appeals to a small, attentive public of elite world decision makers. The Commission had suggested that Iran, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, and Mexico (did become a member in 1994) be brought into the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an association of 24 (now 30) rich industrial nations (including all 15 countries of the European Community) founded in 1961 to encourage world trade, economic progress, and to aid underdeveloped nations. The move was considered by one Brazilian diplomat, as an attempt to buy us out, and not an attempt to build new understanding. Their long range goals had included joint policy making in regard to economic and political relations with the Third World and the former communist bloc countries. Their policy for maintaining peace, involved the decrease of military forces, and nuclear disarmament; and to avoid confrontation at all costs, even if it means knuckling under to their threats, by abandoning allies (as had been done with Taiwan), and reducing America to a secondrate power.
The Commission has pushed for the restructuring of the International Monetary Fund, so that they would be able to create new money, and restrict its use, by issuing a form of currency that had been initially called Bancor (or SDR, Special Drawing Rights), which would replace our dollar, gold, silver, and all other forms of currency even Travelers Checks. Winston Lord, U.S. Ambassador to China during the Reagan Administration and Assistant Secretary of State for Asian and Pacific Affairs under Clinton a CFR member, is reported to have said: The Trilateral Commission doesnt run the world, the Council on Foreign Relations does that!
REGIONAL GOVERNMENT On April 21, 1935, the New York Times magazine published a plan in which the states would merge into new units called Federal Regions that would be controlled from Washington, DC. In 1959, Nelson Rockefeller called for an Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR), which became a federallyfunded Rockefeller thinktank within Congress to prepare a working formula for the concept.
The ACIR analyzed information produced by the Public Administration Clearing House (also known as the 1313) and translated it into legislation to develop regional government, which would usurp the power of the local government. The Clearing House, located at the Rockefellercontrolled University of Chicago, represented a group of 26 private organizations which had been infiltrating local government agencies to usurp their power and authority. Some of these organizations are: National Association of Counties, National League of Cities, U.S. Conference of Mayors, American Public Works Association, Public Personnel Association, National Association of Attorney Generals, and the National Governors Conference. Their purpose was to train and place a new administrative class in every level of government, which would replace elected officials. On March 27, 1969, as published in the Federal Register, under the direction of his Illuminati advisers, President Nixon announced the Restructuring of Government Service Systems, which called for the merging of states into eight federallycontrolled regions. An Executive Order, when decreed by the President, is printed in the Federal Register, and then becomes law 15 days later. After Bill Clinton signed Executive Order #13083, Presidential Aide Paul Begala was overheard saying: Stroke of a pen, law of the land. Kinda cool. Executive Order #11647 was signed by Nixon on February 10, 1972, establishing Federal Regional Councils for the development of closer working relationships between major Federal grantmaking agencies of State and local government. In each of the ten standard Federal Regions, there was to be a council made up of the directors of the regional offices of: Dept. of Labor; Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare; Dept. of Housing and Urban Development; Secretarial Representative of the Dept. of Transportation; Office of Economic Opportunity; Environmental Protection Agency; and the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration. The President was to designate one member of each Council as the Chairman. This Executive Order was unconstitutional because Article IV of the U.S. Constitution prohibited the merging of the states, and guaranteed a government represented by elected officials. However, regional government was accepted, because it brought with it, revenuesharing funds. Here is how the Ten Regions are organized (with the regional offices in parenthesis):
1) Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts (Boston), Connecticut, Rhode Island 2) New York (New York), New Jersey, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico 3) Pennsylvania (Philadelphia), Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Virginia, District of Columbia 4) Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia (Atlanta), South Carolina, Florida 5) Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois (Chicago), Indiana, Ohio 6) New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas (DallasFt. Worth), Arkansas, Louisiana 7) Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas (Kansas City), Missouri 8) Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado (Denver) 9) Arizona, Nevada, Hawaii, California (San Francisco), American Samoa, Guam, N. Mariana Islands, Marshall Islands, Micronesia 10) Idaho, Washington (Seattle), Oregon, Alaska
In October, 1976, Jimmy Carter said before the National Association of Regional Councils (NARC):
I believe that regional organizations should be strengthened. If elected President, I intend first to upgrade the role of regional councils representing the federal government to assist State and local officials, as well as private citizens, in dealing with federal agencies ... I also intend to encourage the development of regional councils representing State and local governments.
Carter expanded the Federal Regional System on July 20, 1979, with Executive Order #12149, to provide a structure for interagency and intergovernmental cooperation ... to establish practical and appropriate liaison functions with State, tribal, regional and local officials.
Each of the Ten Councils were made up of a representative from each of the following agencies: Dept. of the Interior; Dept. of Agriculture; Dept. of Commerce; Dept. of Labor; Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare; Dept. of Housing and Urban Development; Dept. of Transportation; Dept. of Energy; Environmental Protection Agency; Community Services Administration; Office of Personnel Management; General Services Administration; ACTION (Peace Corp., VISTA, senior citizen programs, and other special volunteer programs); Small Business Administration; Federal Emergency Management Agency; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and the Regional Action Planning Commission. It included over 550 aid programs and block grants. The Department of Education was added later, after it separated from the Dept. of Health, Education and Welfare (which became the Dept. of Health and Human Services). On the same day, he signed Executive Order #12148 Federal Emergency Management, which created the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), an agency within the Department of Justice, which oversees all of the federal agencies that have specific duties during times of emergency, such as the Federal Disaster Assistance Agency, and the Federal Emergency Broadcast System. It seems that only about 10% of its personnel are actually involved in disaster assistance. Being that it has the capability to assume government control if necessary, they have been given police powers which some researchers believe will be used as the enforcement branch of the Regional Government.
In other words, a national police force. Its purpose was to merge every communitys police force, transferring control of them to a central government. This was to be done through revenuesharing funds providing special training programs to the local police, special communications equipment, and other things. The National Guard began receiving SWAT (Special Weapons and Tactical Team) training to be part of this national police force. Located at the National Security Agency building in Fort Meade, MD, it has been reported that FEMA has been actively engaged in developing a computer database, for CAPS (Crisis Action Programs), to collect records on millions of Americans. In addition to dividing the country into Ten Federal Regions, the government has also been making plans for the establishment of a literal dictatorship, which among other things, will freeze prices and wages, close the Stock Exchange, and regulate the amount of money you can withdraw from your checking and savings account.
The following Presidential Executive Orders will accomplish this:
#10312 (121051) Gives Government the power to take over all radio stations. #10346 (041752) All Federal Departments and Agencies are required to prepare civil defense plans. #10995 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all communications and media. #10997 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all energy and power sources such as electricity, petroleum and natural gas. #10998 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over farms, farm machinery, and food sources; including production, manufacturing, processing, distribution, and retailing. #10999 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all modes of transportation, seaports, highways, etc. #11000 (021662) Gives Government the authority to mobilize citizens into work forces under Government supervision. #11001 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all health, welfare and educational functions. #11002 (021662) The Postmaster General will be responsible for registering all Americans. #11003 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all airports and aircraft. #11004 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over housing and financial institutions, to relocate communities, to erect new housing with public funds, to declare areas to be abandoned because they are unsafe, and to establish new locations for the population. #11005 (021662) Gives Government the power to take over all railroads, inland waterways, and public storage facilities. #11051 (092762) Authorization for Executives Orders to be put into effect during times of international, economic, or financial crisis, and for the Office of Emergency Planning to carry them out. #11310 (101166) Gives Government the power to use all prisons to administer medical treatment, for mass feeding, and housing. #11490 (102869) was amended by the 36page Executive Order #11921 (61176), which consolidated the following Executive Orders: #10312, #10346, #10997#11005, #11087#11095, and #11310. It assigned emergency preparedness functions to most Federal Departments and Agencies to assure the continuity of the Federal Government.
On the heels of these provisions that would initiate martial law, a meeting arranged by Nelson Rockefeller, was held from April 58, 1976 in Philadelphia with representatives from the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, the League of Women Voters, the National Council of Churches, National Urban League, NAACP, United Auto Workers, Common Cause, and various other University professors and governmental experts, to study our present Constitution to see if it could be modernized and improved. On January 30, 1976, came the announcement of A Declaration of Interdependence, a document which endorsed a oneworld government. The announcement was made at a meeting held at Philadelphias Independence Hall, which was sponsored by the World Affairs Council (and had stemmed from a five point program they had announced in September, 1975).
The meeting was funded with a $100,000 grant from the Pennsylvania Bicentennial Committee. The document, written by CFR member Henry Steele Comsmager began with this sentence: Two centuries ago our forefathers brought forth a new nation; now we must join with others to bring forth a new world order.
It was signed by 24 U.S. Senators and 80 U.S. Representatives, such as: Sen. Alan Cranston (DCA, CFR), Sen. Jacob Javits (RNY), Sen. Hubert Humphrey DMN), Sen. George McGovern (DSD), Sen. William Proxmire (DWI), Sen. Charles Mathias (CFR), Sen. Claiborne Pell (CFR), Rep. Paul Simon, Rep. Patricia Schroder, Rep. Louis Stokes, Rep. Les Aspin (Secretary of Defense under Clinton), Rep. John B. Anderson (RIL), and Rep. Morris K. Udall (DAZ). This document went through further drafts, and in 1984, it was presented by the Committee on a Constitutional System (CCS) as an alternative to the existing Constitution. One of the groups Board members, James MacGregor Burns, a history professor, said: If we are to turn the founders upside down ... we must directly confront the constitutional structure they erected. About a third of the CCS Board members belonged to the CFR, including Chairman C. Douglas Dillon (former Secretary of Treasury), Lloyd Cutler (former legal council to President Carter, and council to President Clinton), and Sen. Nancy Kassebaum. Some of the other members were: Robert McNamara (former Secretary of Defense under Kennedy and Johnson), Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Sen. Charles Mathias, Sen. J. William Fulbright, and others who were associated with the Brookings Institute, Rockefeller Foundation, and Woodrow Wilson Center. In October, 1970, the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, a taxexempt foundation in Santa Barbara, California (financed by the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations with up to $21/2 million annually), published in their magazine Center, an article called the Constitution for the United Republics of America, which emanated from a concept that was initially drafted in 1964, and was the forerunner for a later version. The principle author of this document was Rexford Guy Tugwell (who was the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture under President Franklin Roosevelt), who directed a team of close to 100 socialist educators who contributed to the project. In Tugwells 1974 book, The Emerging Constitution, the 40th version of the original draft was published as A Constitution for the Newstates of America, which the Ford Foundation spent $25 million to produce and promote. Tugwell claimed that our Constitution was too cumbersome and needed to be changed. He believed that it was possible to get this new Constitution adopted, and said: ...it could happen that the present system of government would prove so obstructive and would fail so abysmally to meet the needs of a continental people and a great power that general recognition of the crisis would occur.
There might then be a redrafting of the basic law, and, if so, then it might be that this model we have worked out over a number of years might be taken into account. The new Constitution calls for the States to be divided into Ten Federal Regions, called Republics, which would be subservient departments of the national government. The document contains no guarantees of freedoms that we now have under the Bill of Rights (Article I, Part A, Section 1: Freedom of expression shall not be abridged except in declared emergency). In an emergency, the government will have the power to curtail communication, movement, and the right to assemble. It calls for public education, and gun control (Article I, Part B, Section 8 The bearing of arms or the possession of lethal weapons shall be confined to police, members of the armed forces, and those licensed under the law).
The President will serve one 9 year term (Article VI, Part B, Section 9, Subsection 8: To assist in the maintenance of world order and, for this purpose, when the President shall recommend, to vest jurisdiction in international legislative, judicial and administrative agencies.), and there will be two VicePresidents. A hundred Senators will be appointed by the President for lifetime terms, not elected; and there would be 400 members in the House of Representatives. Each of the 100 Congressional Districts will elect three for a three year term; and 100 will be elected by the entire country, to serve a nine year term, and only they can become Committee Chairmen. With the completion of the proposed Newstates Constitution, Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, president of the U.S. Senate, developed support for the introduction of HCR 28, which called for an unlimited Constitutional Convention in 1976. Swift public opposition soundly defeated this attempt, so the Convention supporters then went to the states promoting a limited convention for the purpose of adding a balanced budget amendment. They were able to convince 32 of the required 34 states to pass resolutions calling for a convention. The last state to sign on was Missouri in 1983, but after that, the legislatures in three states (Alabama, Florida and Louisiana) realized the consequences of their actions and rescinded their call. It is ironic, but organizations claiming to be conservative, seem to be the strongest supporters for a convention. Most notable are: American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), National Taxpayers Union (NTU), Republican National Committee (RNC), and the Committee on the Constitutional System (CCS). In 1992, Ross Perot, who had become a political force to be reckoned with, publicly called for a Constitutional Convention. In guest appearances with Barbara Walters, Phil Donahue and Larry King he stated that we needed a Parliamentary Government, and pledged that his people could get the remaining states needed for a Constitutional Convention call in their sleep. Another threat to our Constitution was the Conference of States (COS). It was being peddled as a movement for the states to come together and discuss the need to balance the relationship between the states, and the federal government, in a coequal partnership, even though our original Constitution intended for the States to be sovereign, and for the federal government to only have limited powers. Their first meeting was to be held in Annapolis (MD), July 69, 1995, with a historical reenactment of the 1786 Annapolis convention; and the second had been planned for October 2426, 1995 (which, ironicaIly, was the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the UN), in Philadelphia (PA), a reenactment of the 1787 convention.
It was being funded by three private organizations which are associated with the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR): Council of State Governments (CSG, established in 1930 with funding from a Rockefeller Grant), National Governors Association (NGA), and the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL, established in 1933 with funding from a Rockefeller Grant). In December of 1994 the NCSL had a meeting in North Carolina where state legislators were told the Conference of States was a way for States to keep the federal government from encroaching on their sovereignty. So this COS resolution was taken back to their respective state legislatures and the first 12 states to ratify it was able to accomplish it through deceit by having legislative leaders introduce it, bypassing any committees so there would be no hearings, and bringing it to the floor for a quick vote. According to Michael Leavitt, the Republican governor of Utah, the goal of the Resolutions proponents was to have 26 states pass it, although Governor Nelson of Nebraska was pressing for 34, which was the exact number of States needed to call for a Constitutional Convention. Leavitt, a member of the ACIR, told the Salt Lake City Tribune in 1994, that he wanted a constitutional convention. In a May, 1994 Position Paper, he said that our government was ...outdated and old fashioned ... not suited for the fastpaced, hightech, globalmarketplace we are entering. There is a better way, The better way he suggested, seemed to be an endrun around the Constitution; because the COS literature indicated their interest in passing Constitutional amendments.
He indicated his high expectations for what the meeting could accomplish:
Congress tried to limit the conventions authority by stating it would meet for the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation ... As we all know, the delegates to the great Constitutional Convention in 1787 in Philadelphia did much more than that. They threw out the Articles of Confederation and drafted a new constitution.
Though Article V of the Constitution indicates that two-thirds of the States must vote for a constitutional convention before Congress could call one, the COS was planning to use the same method the delegates did at the Annapolis convention in 1786. Within ten years, the Constitution that was originally drafted on June 12, 1776 (and fully ratified by 1781), was no longer able to meet the needs of a growing nation.
The delegates of Virginia, New York, Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, meeting in Annapolis were charged with the task of amending the Articles of Confederation, and were to meet in Philadelphia for the sole and express purpose of revising them. The need for a stronger central government was expressed, one that didnt limit States rights. However, upon meeting in Philadelphia in May, 1787, they locked all the doors, and posted armed guards; and even closed all the windows, so they could deliberate in secret while they actually set up a new national government. Neither the Congress or the people could stop them. Their work was finished on September 17, 1787 (and was fully ratified on May 29, 1790), and the Constitution of the United States was born, and is still in existence today. Many people were worried about this Conference of States, because nobody was really sure what could happen. Charles Duke, the Republican state senator from Colorado, said that the COS would be the edge of the sword that knocks the head off the Constitution. Case law mandates that members of a constitutional convention must be directly elected by the people, so they can act as their representatives to exercise the sovereign power of the state. Each state delegation to the COS would consist of the governor, and two leaders from each party in the state legislature (plus two alternates, one from each party), and therefore could be empowered with the necessary legal status as representatives of the people, should the decision be made to turn the meeting into a constitutional convention. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (RGA), and 33rd Degree Mason Bob Dole (RKS) openly supported the COS, and on March 24, 1995, Republican senators Hank Brown (CO) and Jesse Helms (NC) sponsored a Senate Resolution which would give Congressional authorization to transform the COS into a bonafide Constitutional Convention. They maintained that without this Congressional approval, it would be in conflict with Article 1, Section 10 of the Constitution, which does not allow any agreements between States. Ultimately, because only 14 state legislatures passed resolutions calling for their participation in the COS, which was short of the 26 needed, their organizational meeting scheduled for July, 1995 was canceled. However, the same forces behind this movement planned to have a federalism summit in Cincinnati on October 22 with the support of the Council of State Governments, National Governors Association and the National Conference of State Legislators. It is obvious that the Illuminati had taken a twoprong approach to regional government. They have been working within the confines of the Executive Branch to get various Executive Orders passed; and they have also used their various finger organizations to study our existing constitution, and recommend changes.
All of their efforts may eventually culminate in a call for a Constitutional Convention that will spell the end of democracy as we know it in this country.
CREATING A CRISIS Certain questions raised during the 1973 Oil Embargo, seem to point to the fact that the crisis was created by the Illuminati, as a test, to see what it would be like without gasoline for automobiles, and fuel for heating homes. During the Embargo, Maines Governor, Democrat Kenneth M. Curtis, accused the Nixon Administration of creating a managed oil shortage to force support of its energy programs. A 1973 study by Philadelphia Inquirer reporters Donald Bartlett and James B. Steele, revealed, that while American oil companies were telling the U.S. to curtail oil consumption, through a massive advertising campaign, the five largest oil companies (Exxon, Mobil, Texaco, Gulf, and Standard Oil of California) were selling close to two barrels overseas, for every barrel (42 gallons) of oil sold here. They accused the oil companies and the Federal government of creating the crisis.
In 1974, Lloyds of London, the leading maritime insurance company in the world, said that during the three months before the Embargo, 474 tankers left the Middle East, with oil for the world. During the three months at the height of the crisis, 492 tankers left those same ports. During the Embargo, Atlantic Richfield (ARCO, whose President, Thornton Bradshaw was a member of the CFR) drivers were hauling excess fuel to storage facilities in the Mojave desert. All of this evidence points to the conclusion that there was no oil shortage in 1973. Antony C. Sutton wrote in Energy: The Created Crisis: Our mythical energy shortage can be dismissed with a few statistics. The U.S. consumes about 71 quads (a quad is one quadrillion BTUs, or 10 to the 15th power British Thermal Units) of energy per year. There is available now in the U.S., excluding solar sources and without oil and gas imports, about 151,000 quads.
Consequently, we have sufficient energy resources to keep us functioning at our present rate of consumption for about 2,000 to 3,000 years without discovering new reserves. Even at higher consumption rates there will be no problem in the next millennium In 1977, independent petroleum companies discovered 88% of the new oil fields, drilling on 81% of those. They have been hampered by the large corporations, referred to earlier as the Seven Sisters, who wanted to avoid adding to our national supply so they can profit from the higher prices. Carters Department of Energy was established to perpetuate the propaganda of the existence of an energy crisis. In 1975, an anonymous ARCO official told Hugh M. Chance, a former State Senator from Colorado, that the Government had allowed only one pool of oil in a 100 square mile area on Alaskas North Slope, to be developed, even though the entire area north of Brooks Range has so much oil, that if it were drilled, in five years the United States could be totally energy free, and totally independent from the rest of the world as far as energy is concerned.
The Prudhoe Bay oil field is one of the richest oil fields on earth, able to produce an oil flow for at least 20 years, without the need of a pump; and a natural gas supply which could supply the entire country for 200 years. However, the Government wouldnt allow it to be pumped out, and it is funneled back into the ground. The Gull Island find had a different chemical structure, as did the Kuparuk oil field, west of there, which meant that the three different chemical compositions indicated the existence of separate pools of oil on the North Slope in an area of 50,000 square miles. Needless to say, this seems to be an almost unlimited supply of domestic oil. Another ARCO official told Lindsey Williams, a chaplain for the work camps on the TransAlaska Oil pipeline, that there will never be an energy crisis (because) we have as much oil here as in all Saudi Arabia. Williams had witnessed a huge oil discovery at Gull Island (5 miles north of Prudhoe Bay in the Beaufort Sea) that could have produced so much oil, that the official said that another pipeline could be built and in another years time we can flood America with oilAlaskan oil ... and we wont have to worry about the Arabs.
However, a few days after the find, the Federal Government ordered the documents and technical reports locked up, the well capped, and the rig withdrawn. Their excuse was that an oil spill in that part of the Arctic Ocean would kill various microorganisms. Williams felt that the U.S. Government was deliberately creating an oil crisis, and delaying the flow of oil, in order to bankrupt the oil companies, which would lead to the nationalization of oil and gas. William Brown, Director of Technological Studies at the Hudson Institute, said: The President (Carter) said there is no chance of us becoming independent in our oil supplies. That is just wrong. We have at least 100 years of petroleum resources in this country. In 1976, proven resources were set at 37 billion barrels and the estimated recoverable resources were set at 150 billion barrels. This is about a 50year supply at current usage levels.
The American Petroleum Institute said in their 1977 Annual report, that recoverable crude was set at 30.9 billion barrels, and with todays technology, the amount of recoverable crude was 303.5 billion barrels, which is about an 80year supply. The 1968 U.S. Geological Survey reported that the crude oil potential of the Atlantic Ocean continental shelf area is 224 billion barrels, the Gulf of Mexico has 575 billion barrels, the Pacific Coast has 275 billion barrels, and Alaska has 502 billion barrels, which is a grand total of 1,576 billion barrels. Only about 2% of these areas have been leased, which at the time of the report, had yielded 615 million barrels of oil, and 3.8 TCF (trillion cubic feet) of natural gas yearly. The Wall Street Journal said that we possessed 1001 years of natural gas. Only about 2% of the Outer Continental Shelf has been leased, even though it may contain over half of our potential natural gas reserves. Along the Atlantic Coast, there is a potential of 67 TCF of gas, yet only about a dozen wells had been drilled in those areas.
The Potential Gas Committee said in 1972, that we had 1412 TCF in reserve; in 1973, Mobil said we had 758 TCF; Exxon said we had 6601380 TCF; the U.S. Geological Survey reported in 1974, that we had 7611094 TCF in reserve; the National Academy of Sciences said in 1974, that we had 885 TCF; and there were other reports which indicated that we had over 700 TCF. These sources did not include the unconventional sources of coalbeds, shale formations, tight sand formations, and deep underground water areas. From conventional sources, our known reserves were estimated to be about 237 TCF, and underground reserves were estimated to be about 530 TCF. An analysis of unconventional resources indicated the following yield: tight sand (600 TCF), coal (250 TCF), shale (500 TCF), underground water zones in the Gulf (200 TCF), and synthetic gas from peat (1443 TCF). This all adds up to a total of 3,800 TCF of natural gas, and with the U.S. using an average of 21 TCF a year, that would be enough to provide us with another 100 years worth of energy.
That doesnt take into account the synthetic gas obtainable from growing marine biomass, such as the California Giant Kelp (Macrocystis Pyrifera), which grows two feet per day, and could be a renewable source for the production of synthetic gas. It is also estimated that the United States could have up to half of the worlds known recoverable coal reserves, which could be about 200 billion tons 45 billion of which is near the surface. At the time of this report, maximum production up to 1985 would have only used 10% of this reserve, even if no new reserves were discovered. In 1979, Herbert Foster, VicePresident of the National Coal Association, said:
America has three trillion tons of coal out there, ready to be mined ... all we produced last year was 590 million tons. Thats only one pound of coal for every 21/2 tons still in the ground. The U.S. Geological Survey has estimated our coal reserves will last us well into the next century.
One reason coal development has been held up, is that 40% of all reserves are on land owned by the Federal Government, and environmentallyminded citizens. The book The Next 200 Years by Herman Kahn and the Hudson Institute said: Allowing for the growth of energy demand ... we conclude that the proven reserves of these five major fossil fuels (oil, natural gas, coal, shale, and tar sands) alone could provide the worlds total energy requirements for about 100 years, and only onefifth of the estimated potential reserves sources could provide for more than 200 years of the projected energy needs. The Hudson Institute said in 1974: There is no shortage of energy fuels. Antony Sutton wrote: The energy crisis is a phony, a ripoff, a political con game designed to perpetuate a crisis that can be managed for political power purposes. Conservative estimates indicate that we have 100 years of energy sources available, while evidence of other undeveloped finds show that we have adequate reserves that would last long beyond that. The Illuminati has a firm grip on the oil supply, and after their test in 1973, its obvious that oil will be used as a weapon of control. One can only wonder what would happen to this country if a largescale oil crisis occurred. Needless to say, it would be a disaster of unbelievable proportions that most likely would cause an economic collapse.
Law and order would not exist in this scenario, as the population would fight among themselves for the limited resources that would be available, thus making the perfect situation for a World Government to step in.
RIOT AND REVOLUTION Revolution has always been the method used to facilitate change, and it would seem likely that an environment could be created that would ultimately lead to a revolt by the citizens of this country. As our economy continues to decline, and it becomes harder for people to get by, there may be a ground swell of revolt across the country against the government, Of course, the Illuminati has already planted these seeds. As you have read, the Illuminati controls the leadership of the labor unions, and the corporate structure of America. Thus, a major strike could cripple this country. For instance, a strike by the Longshoremen would prevent anything from being unloaded off the ships. A strike by the Teamsters would prevent anything from being shipped on trucks. A strike by the Air Traffic Controllers would prevent all flights, except for military planes.
Basically, with a major labor strike, nothing would move, and there would be no way to get food and other products of necessities to the cities. Again, this would be a crucial blow to the economy. On top of that, and history has shown this, a major strike would most likely be accompanied with acts of violence and sabotage. Indeed, this situation would make it possible for the initiation of martial law, and a World Government to step in to maintain control. It is a known fact that revolution has been fermenting in this country for a long time, and riots could be instigated through the many terrorist groups that exist here. Riots, bank robberies, racial confrontations, skyjackings, strikes, demonstrations, assassinations, and kidnappings, are not just unrelated events, according to J. Bernard Hutton, who wrote in his 1972 book The Subverters that the increasing violence and terrorism is a direct result of an organized worldwide plot to destroy the Western democracies. The first hint of revolution came from the Communists. Prominent U.S. Communist Gus Hall said at the 1961 funeral of Eugene Dennis, National Chairman of the U.S. Communist Party: ...slit the throats of Christian children and drag them over the mourners bench and the pulpit and allow them to drown in their own blood.
As much as the Government would like us to believe it, Communism is not dead only sleeping. When it awakes, most likely under the banner of Socialism, it will be a force to be reckoned with. The Communists, through their subversive agents in this country, have maps of all strategic locations, such as military firearm storage, police stations, fire stations, water hydrants, railroads and other transportation centers, communication centers, and water reservoirs and supplies. It wasnt too long ago, that we discovered that Russia still has spies working within the CIA. Despite their overtures toward democracy, they are clearly continuing to follow an agenda to undermine the United States. The riots could be racially motivated. Percy E. Sutton, a former Borough President of Manhattan in New York City, who is Black, said in his keynote address before the National Conference of AntiPoverty Agencies at Columbia Universitys Teachers College on February 22, 1968, that there was a plan to use thousands of Black Veterans from the Vietnam War to wage war on Whites. He said: I am afraid that the greatest battle of the era of the Vietnam War will not be fought in the demilitarized zone north of Da Nang, but will be fought in the streets of America.
In April and May of 1992, after four policemen were acquitted in the beating of a Black man, Rodney King, massive riots swept across southcentral Los Angeles, and the military had to be sent in to restore order. It was reported that 600 buildings were burned, and 52 people killed. Damage estimates ran as high as $1 billion. Incidents were also reported in Atlanta, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Miami, and Seattle. Even though the Blacks in this country have achieved quite a bit in the past 30 years, the fight against oppression has hardened them, and has created a generation that thinks nothing of using the political power of violence and demonstration to make their views known. This powder keg could be ignited again in the future, on a wider scale, in order to create a nationwide crisis. The riots could be radically motivated. Jerry Rubin, who was a member of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) at Kent State University, said on July 20, 1970: The first part of the Yippie program is to kill your parents. And I mean that quite literally, because until youre prepared to kill your parents, youre not ready to change the country. Our parents are our first oppressors.
In his book Do It, he wrote:
Weve got Amerika (sic) on the run. Weve combined youth, music, sex, drugs, rebellion with treason and thats a combination hard to beat ... High school students will seize radio, TV, and newspaper offices across the land ... Police stations will blow up ... Revolutionaries will break into jails and free all prisoners ... The Youth International Revolution will begin with mass breakdown of authority, mass rebellion, total anarchy in every institution in the Western World...
Jerry Kirk, a student at the University of Chicago, who was active in the Communist Party up to 1969, told the House and Senate Internal Security Committees:
Young people have no conception of the conspiracys strategy of pressure from above and pressure from below, so well outlined in Jan Kozaks And Not A Shot Is Fired. They have no idea they are playing into the hands of the Establishment they claim to hate. The radicals think they are fighting the forces of the superrich, like Rockefeller and Ford, and dont realize that it is precisely such forces which are behind their own revolution, financing it, and using it for their own purposes.
In his book, The Strawberry Statement: Notes of a College Revolutionary, James S. Kunen (who in April, 1968, was one of the students who took over Columbia University) wrote:
In the evening we went up to the U. to check out a strategy meeting. A kid was giving a report on the SDS Convention. He said that ... at the Convention men from Business International Roundtables ... tried to buy up a few radicals ... These men are the worlds leading industrialists and they convene to decide how our lives are going to go. These are the guys who wrote the Alliance for Progress. They are the left wing of the ruling class ... They offered to finance our demonstrations in Chicago (1968). We were offered Esso (Standard Oil of New Jersey, Exxon Rockefeller) money. They want us to make a lot of radical commotion so they can look more in the center as they move to the left.
Another radical threat has come from militant homosexuals. On September 19, 1993, at the Sunday evening service of the Hamilton Square Baptist Church in San Francisco, California, Rev. Lou Sheldon of the Traditional Values Coalition was to be the scheduled speaker.
Around 5:00 PM, homosexual demonstrators began arriving, and by the time of the service at 6:00 PM, so many had shown up, that they completely controlled the area outside of the church and they attempted to prevent people from entering the church, including the pastor and his wife. The protesters took down the Christian flag, and hoisted the Gay flag. Even though the police were there, they did nothing, claiming that the situation was under control.
When the riot police finally were called in to force the gays out of the church courtyard, the rioters moved to the emergency exit doors on the west side of the church where they pounded and kicked the doors, seeking to break them down. The noise was so disturbing that the service had to be temporarily stopped. I heard a recording of this on a radio show, and needless to say, it was very unnerving. As the churchgoers left, they were shouted and cursed at; and the speaker had debris thrown at him. A group of gay demonstrators were heard yelling: We want your children! Give us your children! Through it all, not one arrest was made, because the police were told that this was an open public meeting and not a worship service and therefore were not allowed to enforce the law regarding the disturbance of church worship services. Just like the civil rights movement of the 1960s, this may have very well been the beginning of gays exercising militant action to gain rights to carry out their perversive lifestyle, especially now that inroads are being made in regard to gay marriages. In a 1987 edition of Gay Community News this interesting bit of information was published:
We shall sodomize your sons We shall seduce them in your schools, in your dormitories, in your gymnasiums, in your locker rooms, in your sports arenas, in your seminaries, in your youth groups, in your movie theater bathrooms, in your army bunkhouses, in your truck stops, in your allmale clubs, in your houses of Congress, wherever men are with men together. Your sons shall become our minions and do our bidding. They will be recast in our image. They will come to crave and adore us All laws banning homosexual activity will be revoked All homosexuals must stand together as brothers We will triumph only when we present a common face to the vicious heterosexual enemy We will unmask the powerful homosexuals who masquerade as heterosexuals We are everywhere; we have infiltrated your ranks We shall conquer the world because warriors inspired by and banded together by homosexual love and honor are invincible as were the ancient Greek soldiers. The family unit will be abolished All churches who condemn us will be closed We too are capable of firing guns and manning barricades of the ultimate revolution.
We shall sodomize your sons We shall seduce them in your schools, in your dormitories, in your gymnasiums, in your locker rooms, in your sports arenas, in your seminaries, in your youth groups, in your movie theater bathrooms, in your army bunkhouses, in your truck stops, in your allmale clubs, in your houses of Congress, wherever men are with men together. Your sons shall become our minions and do our bidding. They will be recast in our image. They will come to crave and adore us
All laws banning homosexual activity will be revoked All homosexuals must stand together as brothers We will triumph only when we present a common face to the vicious heterosexual enemy We will unmask the powerful homosexuals who masquerade as heterosexuals We are everywhere; we have infiltrated your ranks We shall conquer the world because warriors inspired by and banded together by homosexual love and honor are invincible as were the ancient Greek soldiers. The family unit will be abolished All churches who condemn us will be closed We too are capable of firing guns and manning barricades of the ultimate revolution.
Regardless of who is involved in these riots, the police and the military will be mobilized to bring order. In 1965, the Department of Justice established the Office of Law Enforcement Assistance to help the local police fight crime. In 1968, as part of the Crime Control Act, it became known as the Law Enforcement Assistance Agency (LEAA).
Charles H. Rogovin, an administrator of the LEAA, said in an October 1, 1969 speech to the International Association of Chiefs of Police, meeting in Miami: If local law enforcement fails, then something else will replace it. I do not raise the spectre of a federal police force merely to frighten you. Look at the organized crime field. We now see a substantial federal effort there and not simply because organized crime is interstate in nature. It is also because law enforcement has failed to do its job. The LEAA originally discussed the possibility of a National Police Force to be used in the event of a civil disturbance, for crowd dispersal and to neutralize revolutionary leadership. However, an article in the January 15, 1973 edition of the Boston Herald American talked about the plans for reorganization, regionalization and consolidation of police departments. The Deputy Attorney General of California had said during a conference on Civil Emergency Management that anyone who attacks the state, even verbally, becomes a revolutionary and an enemy by definition. They are the enemy and must be destroyed. On December 30, 1975, after it was signed into law by Gov. Edmund G. (Jerry) Brown, Jr., the California National Guard announced that they were prepared to provide emergency assistance to any local police force in the country.
They introduced the 1,200 member Law Enforcement Assistance Force (LEAF), which was a specially trained and equipped military police force to handle mass disturbances and riots, which could be put into place within 12 hours. Although they were phased out in the mid1980s it appeared that LEAF was the forerunner of a national police force. This national police force began taking shape through the MultiJurisdictional Task Force (MJTF), a creation of the Department of Defense, and is a joint operation of FEMA and the National Guard Bureau. The idea was that, with less military involvement abroad, some of our military personnel could be reassigned to this type of domestic duty. The MJTF was to be the coordinating body of the BATF, FDA, CIA, DEA, IRS, Federal Marshals, National Guard, and local police organizations. Since 1971, there have been many reports concerning unmarked black helicopters, which, because of their flight paths, are probably equipped for lowflying ground surveillance, and appear to be part of the militarys domestic counterterrorism program. Among the helicopters that have been observed: CH47 Chinooks (which can carry 64 soldiers), MH60G Blackhawks, AH64 Apaches and HHG0A Night Hawks. It has since been reported by various researchers that they originate from the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, which is based in Ft. Campbell (Hopkinsville), Kentucky, and Hunter Army Airfield in Georgia (although they have helicopters staged at various areas of the country for their use).
They carry no markings, and they are the only helicopter unit in the U.S. military allowed to use the color of black (a special paint that is chemically resistant and invisible to radar) because they are a special operations unit that was initially used by the Delta Force, and now are being used by FEMA. They call themselves the Night Stalkers, and their motto is Death Waits in the Dark. It has been reported that a growing number of American military aircraft, with the exception of the Coast Guard, have been painted dark gray or dark green, and either have no visible markings identifying them as U.S. aircraft, or have lowvisibility markings. It is believed that the purpose for this is so our equipment can be easily transitioned for use as part of any United Nations operations. Since 1987, the U.S. Army has been training the police, local National Guard units, and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), in how to break in and enter private property, as part of their new urban warfare training. The U.S. Armys Office of Public Affairs announced that the Defense Department Authorization Act passed by Congress in 1987, initiated this new training, which was being carried out in military bases such as Fort Hood (TX), Fort Benning (GA), and Fort McClellan (AL). There have been reports of antiterrorist training missions which have taken place throughout the country. Marines from the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit at Camp Lejeune (NC), along with air support from the unmarked black helicopters, carried out a latenight raid in July, 1993, on Tybee Island, near the mouth of the Savannah River. In early 1994, the Army and the Alaska State Police held a joint operation on the Kenai Peninsula, near Anchorage.
In July, 1994, Marines from the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit at Camp Pendleton (CA), held urban warfare training in different locations around Sacramento. In October, 1994, Army Special Forces and the Detroit Police SWAT team, engaged in antiterrorist training missions at a vacant 6story apartment house on West Alexandrine Street, and at a group of abandoned houses in Van Buren Township, a suburb of Detroit, near the Willow Run Airport. A mock city was constructed in the northern area of Fort Polk, in Louisiana, one of the Joint Readiness Training Centers (there are others in Fort Ord, CA and Fort Chaffee, AR), which was labeled a Military Operations in Urban Terrain Complex (MOUT). It is also the location of the North American Training Center for the United Nations. Smaller MOUTs are located in Fort Drum (NY) and Fort Indiantown Gap (PA), who have a model town called Johnson City that is used for urban warfare training.
The FBI had established an antiterrorist training compound at the abandoned Brown and Root, Inc. construction yard in Belie Chasse, Louisiana, just south of New Orleans. The purpose of this urban warfare training was nothing more than the perfection of housetohouse searches and controls on the civilian population, which will be used to disarm the American people through force. It has been suggested that the UN operations in Somalia and Haiti were used as practice runs for disarming the civilian population. However, before this can happen, a massive gun law will have to be passed, so that all the guns will be confiscated. In 1970, the FBI estimated that the private citizens of the country had a total of 90 million weapons, including 35 million rifles, 31 million shotguns, and 24 million handguns (while the armed forces only had a small arms inventory of 4.8 million guns). Estimates in the early 1990s placed the number of registered handguns in this country at 70 million, and the number of unregistered at 50 million. The Illuminati will not instigate any kind of uprising if Americans will be able to defend themselves. Because of this, there has been a massive attack on our constitutional right to keep and bear arms. The extended waiting period mandated by the Brady Bill was only the beginning, there have been other Bills introduced in Congress to ban guns. Sen. Howard Metzenbaum said during a 1993 Senate hearing: Until we can ban all of them, then we might as well ban none. He also said: The best way to keep handguns out of the wrong hands is through licensing. Licensing is a barrier to gun crime. At his Senate Confirmation Hearings in 1993, FBI Director Louis Freeh said: The strongest gun legislation ... I will enforce diligently and exhaustively.
U.S. Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders said: Handguns are a public health issue. Senator Joseph Biden said: (Banning guns) is an idea whose time has come. Rep. Mel Reynolds said on CNNs Crossfire: If it were up to me wed ban them all. From the 1970s to 1990s the incidence of violent crimes have more than doubled. They have become more heinous to the point of being repulsive, and the Governments view is to disarm the criminal, but also at the same time, they want to also disarm law abiding citizens. Bill Clinton (as quoted in USA Today, March 11, 1993, page 2A) said: We cant be so fixated on our desire to preserve the rights of ordinary Americans The move for gun control is snowballing, and that is part of their plan. In 1994, the National Rifle Association got their hands on a secret document which represented the blueprint for the guncontrol lobby in this country. The first step was to use the media to create a clamor for gun control in this country, and this would in turn sway the opinion of a large portion of the population to support such a measure. The second step would be the initiation of gun control legislation that would establish annual licensing fees, and surcharges on ammunition. After two years, the third step would involve a massive increase in the licensing fees.
The reason given, would be because of the costs involved to enforce the law, when in fact, it would be to discourage ownership. The failure to get a license would result in a $1,000 fine and/or six months in jail; and if your license lapses, your failure to turn your guns over to the government, would result in a $15,000 fine and/or eighteen months in jail. Both instances also result in the loss of the right to own a firearm. After two more years, the fourth step would call for further legislation to increase the licensing fees even more. Their ultimate goal is to reduce the number of licensees to zero. In this way, the Second Amendment to the Constitution of the United States will be circumvented in order to take the guns out of the hands of the American people. After that, the population will be defenseless against government forces.
They hoped to accomplish this within 15 years. Noah Webster said in 1787: Before a standing army or a tyrannical government can rule, the people must be disarmed; as they are in almost every kingdom in Europe. There was a law passed that tells us what the mentality of the government is concerning this issue. On September 26, 1961, Public Law 87297 or The Arms Control and Disarmament Act was signed. It created the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency as an agency of peace to deal with the problem of reduction and control of armaments looking toward ultimate world disarmament. Section 3(a) describes disarmament as the control, reduction, or elimination, of armed forces and armaments of all kinds.
Section 31(a) indicates that the Agency is to engage in study and research to achieve the limitation, reduction, control, and elimination of armed forces and armaments... This information can be found in the United States Code, Volume 9, Title 22 (Foreign Relations), Chapter 35 (Arms Control and Disarmament), Sections 25512595. Even though the Agency is active in negotiations regarding foreign policy, you can be sure that all such negotiations include the same concessions for America. In the February 14, 1963 edition of the Washington Report, Congressman James B. Utt said that this Disarmament Act sets up a superagency with power greater than the power of Congress, which delegated it. The law was almost a duplication, word for word, of a disarmament proposal by the Kremlin in 1959 ... The Disarmament legislation was passed for the purpose of implementing the Department of State Publication 7277, entitled Freedom from War The United States Program for General and Complete Disarmament in a Peaceful World. Will the U.S. military go against American citizens if so ordered by the Federal Government? It was reported that a 46question survey was handed out in May, 1994, to 300 randomly selected Marines (veterans of the Panama operation and the Persian Gulf War) at the Twentynine Palms Marine Corps Base in the Mohave Desert about 70 miles east of San Bernadino, California. The soldiers were asked for their reaction to various statements, such as U.S. military troops being commanded by UN officers, whether the President has the authority to pass his responsibilities as CommanderinChief to the UN SecretaryGeneral, and if they would serve in a United Nations military force to maintain world peace. The survey was concluded with this: The U.S. Government declares a ban on the possession, sale, transportation, and transfer of all nonsporting firearms. A thirty (30) day amnesty period is permitted for these firearms to be turned over to the local authorities. At the end of this period, a number of citizen groups refuse to turn over their firearms. Consider the following statement: I would fire upon U.S. citizens who refuse or resist confiscation of firearms banned by the U.S. Government. After the news of this survey surfaced (in The Spotlight, and the November issue of American Legion Magazine), it was later reported that it was part of a soldiers Master Thesis at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, and did not reflect any government program.
However, the February, 1994 issue of Modern Gun magazine reported that a similar survey had been given to some Navy SEALS. The Thesis, called Peacekeeping and UN Operational Control: A Study of Their Effect on Unit Cohesion, had been classified, until March, 1995, when it was approved for public dissemination. In response to the question about swearing allegiance to the UN, 208 Marines said they could not do so (117 of those strongly disapproved), and 71 said they could (with 19 of those strongly approving). And, in regard to the infamous question 46, of the 264 Marines who responded, 185 said they would be opposed to firing at Americans (with 127 strongly opposing), and 79 said they would be willing to shoot if ordered (with 23 strongly affirming). So, the bottom line is, if ordered, one out of every four Marines would shoot American citizens. What this survey revealed was that, for the most part, our military probably could not be relied on to act as a cohesive force to fire upon the citizens of this country. However, with increased indoctrination, that could change, but I dont think there is time for that. Therefore, the deck had to be stacked. On November 11, 1990, President George Bush signed an Executive Order that authorized the presence of UN Battle Groups in the U.S., and there are 15 reported to be here. Before leaving office, in a major speech to the United Nations, Bush said that the United States would permit UN troops to use various military bases for training purposes, and multinational field exercises. The military staff of the UN SecretaryGeneral had called for a Rapid Response Peace Force of 60,000 soldiers, for instant deployment; a Permanent PeaceKeeping Force of 275,000 soldiers, for conflict control; and a Standing Reserve Peace Force of 500,000 soldiers for UN duty wherever necessary. On March 16, 1993, Senate Joint Resolution No. 65 called for the establishment of a commission to study the creation of a standing international military force under the United Nations Charter. In 1993, Clinton issued Presidential Review Directive (PRD) #13, supporting BoutrosGhalis (UN SecretaryGeneral) proposal for a UN military force, substantially made up of Americans.
However, Gen. Colin Powell, Commander of the Joint Chiefs of Staff insisted on a codicil that said, if any U.S. commander believed his orders violated the U.S. Constitution, or placed our country or military forces at risk, the orders could be disregarded. On May 3, 1994, Clinton signed the Presidential Review Directive #25, which put U.S. military commanders under the authority of the UN during UN military operations, and instructed the Department of Defense to establish a U.S. military organizational structure which included the United Nations. It was PRD #13 without the Powell codicil. On June 24, 1994, the National Guard Bureau, an agency of the Department of Defense (which coordinates all the state National Guard units), developed the National Guard State Partnerships with the Russian Federation which enabled troops from 14 of the newly formed Russian Federation (as well as other countries in east and central Europe), to train in this country with the National Guard units of some states. According to Clintons Bridge to America proposal, the purpose of these partnerships was to assist the participating nations transition to democratic military institutions with peacetime utility in providing military support of civilian authorities...
Troops who were attached to the Russian Interior Ministry were seen training with the U.S. 10th Special Forces Group, who were being reassigned to Fort Carson, Colorado. The Russian soldiers were still wearing the red berets bearing the hammer and sickle, the symbol of Communism. Russians have also been seen training with the SWAT team of Las Vegas, Nevada, and were reportedly involved in joint military training operations in Alaska and Alabama. Belgian troops were seen in North Dakota and Montana. German soldiers were seen training at Luke Air Force Base near Phoenix, Arizona; as well as Fort Bliss (TX), and Fort McClelland (AL). There have been reports of 19,000 UN troops in Fort Polk (alleged site of a large underground facility), Louisiana, consisting of French, Pakistani, and 2 battalions of Russian soldiers; 600 UN troops near Dulce, New Mexico; 40,000 UN troops staged in Sacramento, California, as well as 40,000 UN troops in San Diego, 22,000 UN troops just south of Los Angeles, 50,000 National Guard and UN troops located near Barstow; 43,000 UN troops in the Texas panhandle; and 14,000 UN troops in Anchorage, Alaska. The use of Fort Dix in New Jersey (a major east coast base, in an area of 50 square miles, right next to McGuire Air Force Base) was fully committed for UN purposes. Razor wire now surrounds some parts of this base, and there was a sign pointing the way to an Enemy Prisoner of War compound. In addition, in May, 1991, the German government negotiated a deal with our government, which gave them permission to establish a German military facility in our country. There hasnt been a foreign military presence here since Great Britains occupation during the War of 1812. Foreign soldiers have been training with American troops in order to function as a cohesive multinational unit that will operate under the authority of the United Nations. A multinational UN military force stationed in this country would fire upon American citizens. Journalist Pam Schuffert, author of Premonitions of an American Holocaust, while she was in Germany, asked some soldiers if they knew that German troops were training at Fort Bliss and Holloman, and if they were there for the hour of martial law, to help arrest Americans and seize their weapons and fire upon them if they resist. One of them replied: Yes, we have heard all this, and it is true. Russiamade T72 main battle tanks have been spotted on our nations highways, being hauled on flatbed trailers. It is reported that at least 30 may have been brought here. One government response was that they were being used in military war games. Also seen, were Soviet surfacetoair missiles and surfacetosurface missiles. A Soviet HindD attack helicopter, and a Soviet Helix antisubmarine naval attack helicopter were seen at the Gulf port National Guard facility in Mississippi. Hundreds of railroad flat cars have been seen with both Russian and UN equipment. Rep. Gene Taylor (DMS) reported that the aircraft, as well as hundreds of other pieces Russianbuilt equipment were being purchased and used for training purposes. And hes right, urban warfare training. Hundreds of Soviet Z1L131 military trucks were photographed in Saucier, Mississippi, which were imported from East Germany with a UN bill of lading by Airmar Resources Corporation. They were said to be used, and were to be reconditioned and sold. However, many only had a little more than 1,000 miles on them.
They were to be painted white, marked for UN use and shipped to Africa, yet many of them have been sent to destinations in this country. There was a report from Montana concerning three train loads of military vehicles, some painted white and marked with the UN designation. The evidence seems clear, that our government is stockpiling military equipment in preparation for a massive assault against the American people if necessary. It is believed that there are now over 30 foreign military bases in this country under the United Nations flag, that are manned with a million foreign troops. Because our soldiers could not be counted on to fire upon American citizens, they have been sent overseas as UN peacekeepers, while foreign troops have been brought in that will follow orders to detain, and shoot, anyone who is a threat to the New World Order. The attack on David Koresh and the Branch Davidians in Waco, Texas may have been just a glimpse of what is going to happen in the future to groups who dont toe the government line. In order to control the population, rather than the wholesale slaughter of people that would further turn public opinion against them, large groups of people will be rounded up to be sent to detention centers for questioning, incarceration, or worse.
Michael Maholy, who for 20 years was a CIANaval Intelligence agent, said about the detention centers:
Oh, all of us in the intelligence community know about the concentration camps in America. We all know that they are to terminate the resisters of the New World Order under martial law.
Detention Facilities
On August 24, 1939, F.B.I. Director J. Edgar Hoover met with President Roosevelt to talk about a detention plan for the United States, conceivably to deal with a wartime scenario. This was implemented in March, 1942 for JapaneseAmericans in the western United States, after the attack on Pearl Harbor, when Roosevelt signed Executive Order #9066, which directed the Army to intern up to 112,000 in concentration camps. On August 3, 1948, Hoover met with Attorney General J. Howard McGrath to come up with a plan that would enable President Truman to suspend the constitution in the event of a national emergency. The plan was called Security Portfolio, and if activated, would authorize the FBI to summarily arrest up to 20,000 people and have them placed in national security detention camps without the right of a hearing. It charged the FBI to develop a watch list of the type of people who would be detained, as well as information about their physical appearance, their family, and place of employment. With the Internal Security Act of 1950, a declaration of war by Congress, an invasion of the U.S. or any its territories, or a domestic insurrection, would enable the President to declare an emergency, and give the Justice Department special powers to apprehend and by order detain each person as to whom he, the Attorney General or such officer so designated, finds that there is a reasonable ground to believe that such person may engage in, or may conspire with others to engage in acts of espionage or sabotage. These detention centers were setup at Army facilities in Avon Park (FL), Tulelake (CA), Wickenburg (AZ), and Allenwood (PA). However, Hoover wasnt happy with the law because it did not suspend the constitution, and it guaranteed the right to a court hearing (habeas corpus), and the FBI continued to secretly establish detention camps, and detailed seizure plans for thousands of people; while Hoover continued to pressure McGrath to officially change his position and allow Hoover to ignore the 1950 law in lieu of the original plan of 1948. On November 25, 1952, the Attorney General gave in to Hoover. In 1968, during the riots, a Congressional committee stated that acts by guerrillas in the United States was compared to being in a state of war, and detention areas were discussed for the temporary imprisonment of warring guerrillas. Americans were concerned about this talk, and in 1971 Congress passed legislation that repealed the Emergency Detention Act of 1950. However, there was other legislation that provided for the existence of detention centers. In December, 1975, the Senate held hearings which revealed the continuing plans for internment. The report Intelligence Activities, Senate Resolution 21 revealed their secret agenda. The hearings revealed documents, memos, and testimony by government informants which painted the picture of a government that wanted to monitor, infiltrate, arrest and incarcerate a segment of Americans. The existence of the Master Search Warrant (which authorized the FBI Director to search certain premises where it is believed that there may be found contraband, prohibited articles, and other materials in violation of the Proclamation of the President of the United States.) and the Master Arrest Warrant (by authorization of the U.S. Attorney General, the head of the FBI is empowered to arrest persons who I deem dangerous to the public peace and safety. These persons are to be detained and confined until further order.) were revealed. In 1982, the Reagan Administration initiated the National Security Directive 58 which allowed Robert McFarlane and Oliver North to use the National Security Council to reorganize FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) into an agency that would be equipped to manage the country during a national emergency. During the Reagan years, a secret program identified as Operation Rex 84, was initiated by our National Security Council, and authorized the establishment of 23 emergency detention centers for the purpose of detaining a large number of potentially subversive people. Rex would enable the President to declare a state of emergency, suspend the constitution, and empower the head of FEMA to take control of the internal infrastructure of the country. The Rex exercises simulated an act of civil unrest that culminated in a national crisis that initiated a contingency plan to be able to accommodate the detention of 400,000 people. It was so secretive, that there were reports that special metal security doors were installed on the fifth floor of FEMAs building, and even longtime officials of the Civil Defense Office were denied entry. The cover story for the exercise was to see how our country would handle an influx of refugees resulting from a war in Central America. But in truth it was about the detainment of American citizens. Through the Rex 84 program, it had been reported that the following bases were to be used for civilian detention centers: Ft. Huachuca (AZ), Ft. Chaffee (AR), Vandenburg Air Force Base (CA), Eglin Air Force Base (FL), Camp Krome (FL), Ft. Benning (GA), Ft. Indiantown Gap (PA), Camp A.P. Hill (VA) , Ft. Drum (NY), Wickenburg (AZ), Elmendorf Air Force Base (AK), Eilson Air Force Base (AK), Tulelake (CA), El Reno (OK), Tulsa (OK), Florence (AZ), Maxwell Air Force Base (AL), Mill Point (WV), Allenwood (PA), Oakdale (CA), and Ft. McCoy (WI). An additional 20 centers were funded with the 199091 defense budget and another 43 were commissioned. An insider has said that there are at least 130 detention facilities in the country. Even though the directives that brought about Rex 84 have been eliminated, it is believed that the governments plans for these detention centers are now being carried out under the guise of the U.S. Military Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC). Coincidentally, Huachuca, Chaffee, Eglin, and Indiantown Gap were on early BRAC lists. Another 100 bases may be closed or realigned in 2005. The Federal Bureau of Prisons has priority to use any excess space on U.S. Government property. Army documents have indicated plans for establishing civilian camps on (Army) installations. One such base that was closed was the Seneca Army Depot, near Seneca Falls, in northern New York. It was discovered that major construction was underway, and it was reported by The Spotlight, that it was being prepared for conversion into a massive civilian detention center. The office of Sen. Alfonse DAmato (RNY) announced that a large part of the base was going to be turned over to the National Guard, who, it was believed, would oversee the facility. At nearby Fort Drum, the location of the Armys 10th Mountain Division (who have been utilized as UN peacekeepers) was also slated to be used as a detention facility. In 1997, it was revealed, that since 1989, a Civilian Inmate Labor program was in place at Fort Bliss (TX), Fort Dix (NJ), and Camp Atterbury (IN), where the Army was using incarcerated civilians to perform building maintenance and renovation, landscaping and grounds work, and custodial work. Under the facade of Civilian Labor Camps, it is believed that some detention facilities are being established or renovated. In the mid1990s an important discovery was made that really hit home about Governments plans for martial law. At the Amtrak Railcar Repair Facility at Beech Grove, in Indianapolis, Indiana, there were about 10 maintenance barns, covering 129 acres, which is secured by 2 separate fences that lean inward. There are 3 helicopter 25knot aviation wind socks (as opposed to 10knot socks which are required for chemical storage), high security turnstiles, and high intensity security lighting. The box car building fence was marked with a Red/Blue Zone sign. One of the barns is large enough to put four box cars in it, and at the top are motorized vents to vent fumes out of the building after the cars have been fumigated. Since the initial observations and photographs were taken in August, 1994, a January 27, 1995 article in the Indianapolis News about the layoffs at the facility said: Late last year, Congress ordered Amtrak to spend at least $5.9 million patching holes in the roof and fixing masonry on the walls of the giant machine sheds at Beech Grove. Now they are airtight and have been outfitted with newly installed 6 inch pipes, and 2story hot air furnaces. It was done with the hopes the yard may be able to solicit work repairing private train cars, and perhaps subway cars from Washington, D.C., or other urban areas. Yet the complex was closed. The consensus among researchers and patriots is that when martial law is declared, this facility will become a death camp, and be used as a Nazistyle gas chamber, that will be manned by foreign troops. On 7420 South MacArthur Boulevard in Oklahoma City, OK, (south of the Will Rogers World Airport), built at a cost of $80 million, is the only Federal Transfer Center (FTC) facility in the Federal Bureau of Prisons. It can process up to 100,000 people at a time, and it is believed that this will be the central destination for all detainees. It is likely that it will be coordinating their efforts with Federal Detention Centers (FDC) which are located in: Honolulu (HI), Seattle (WA), Los Angeles (CA), Houston (TX), Miami (FL), Oakdale (LA), and Philadelphia (PA). Information about the Red/Blue (that appeared on the sign) lists surfaced in June of 1996 when an FBI agent had gotten a copy of the Region 3 Blue list from a CIA agent, and found that his name was on it, as well as other people that he knew in Virginia. It is the same system used by the Nazis, according to the 1966 book The Story of the Nazi SS: The Order of the Deaths Head by Heinz Hohne. The sign indicates that this facility will handle Category One (Red) and Category Two (Blue) detainees, and will be used for executions. A U.S. Air Force Manual (Garden Plot, Plan 552) outlined a plan called Operation Cablesplicer to identify and target resisters, and to detain and incarcerate them. Martial law is established when the writ of Habeus Corpus, or the right to have a trial by jury, is suspended, and you are taken right to jail. People on the Red list are slated to be picked up immediately upon the initiation of martial law. The scenario is that it will be done late at night, with detainees from that area being taken to a black, unmarked CH47 Chinook (64 passenger) helicopters where they will flown to one of 38 cities, then put on a jet to a detention facility where they will be executed.
People on the Blue List will be picked up within 6 weeks after the declaration of martial law, and they could either be transferred to another detention center for reeducation or be executed. The Green List is for those people who are ignorant of the secret machinations of the New World Order, and do not present a threat to what they are doing. In the past few years researchers have combed public records, solicited eye witness accounts, and have sought informers in order to piece together the locations of detention centers or concentration camps, which are now reported to be in place all over the country mostly in sparsely populated areas. There are several lists on the Internet, all variations of the same one. I considered reproducing the list for this book, but I decided against it because I preferred to have a more substantiated and corroborated list. One telltale sign of these facilities is that they have fences that point inward (as well as barbed wire), which means they are intended to keep people in, not out.
They are usually located near a body of fresh water or freshwater source, a raiIway system, major highway, or a large airport; have guard towers or buildings; have wind socks, maybe a helicopter landing pad; and contain a large number of buildings which would have the capability of holding a large number of people.
The Government Underground One of the first publicly revealed underground facilities was the Cheyenne Mountain Operations Center. Construction began in May, 1961, and was completed December, 1965.
The main tunnel is a third of a mile long and leads to a pair of 25ton blast doors which are 50 feet apart. Beyond the second door is an underground complex consisting of a 41/2 acre area of chambers and tunnels nearly a mile long. The main chamber consists of three areas 45 feet wide, 60 feet high, and 588 feet long, which are intersected by four chambers 32 feet wide, 56 feet high, and 335 feet long. Within the inner complex, there are fifteen freestanding buildings a one story, a two story, and 11 threestory buildings. Although the primary source of electricity is the city of Colorado Springs (a backup power source comes from six 1,750 kilowatt, 2,800 horsepowered diesel generators), it is essentially a selfcontained complex in that all the support services necessary to maintain the operation is contained within, such as a dining facility, medical and dental facility, pharmacy, two physical fitness centers, a base exchange, chapel, and a barbershop. Water is stored in four excavated reservoirs (three are for industrial purposes, and the other is the complexs primary domestic water source) which have the potential to store 1.5 million gallons of water. This underground complex contains facilities for Air Warning (providing aerospace warning and control for North America), Missile Warning Center (for attacks against the United States or U.S. forces overseas), and Space Control Center (to detect, track, identify and catalog all manmade objects orbiting the earth). During the Cold War, many Federal Relocation Centers were built for the purpose of the Continuity of Government, to maintain essential government services and emergency functions during any event which affects national security. It had been reported that there was a system of 96 facilities established around Washington, D.C., in what is called the Federal Arc, which are earmarked for critical governmental personnel from specific agencies, and are located in North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania.
After 911 it was revealed in an ABC television special with Peter Jennings, that there are 19 emergency operating facilities for sheltering federal government officials within 300 miles of Washington. The administrative nerve center for the whole system is Mount Weather.
Mount Weather On December 1, 1974, a T.W.A. Boeing 727 jet crashed into a foggy mountain in northern Virginia, killing all 92 people onboard, after that, it was discovered that there was a secret government compound nearby called Mount Weather. Mount Weather (Western Virginia Office of Controlled Conflict Operations) is an 561 acre installation located about 48 miles (by air, and 54 via the roads) west of Washington, and 1,725 feet above sea level, near the town of Bluemont (5 miles northeast), Virginia. As you drive on route 7, west of Leesburg, youll turn left on Route 601 just west of Bluemont, and that will lead you right to the gates (actual address is 19844 Blue Ridge Mountain Road).
In case of an all-encompassing national emergency, a handpicked list of civilian and military leaders will be taken to this huge underground shelter in order to form the nucleus of a postwar government. It is run under the auspices of FEMA who refer to it as the special facility, but it is officially called the Continuity of Government Program. Mount Weather has been owned by the federal government since 1902, when the 94 acre site was purchased by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. President Coolidge even talked about building a summer White House there. During World War I it was used as an artillery range, and then during the Depression it was used as a work farm for homeless people. The Bureau of Mines began using the site for experiments in 1936. Initiated by the Federal Civil Defense Administration (later known as the Federal Preparedness Agency), construction began in 1954, and was completed on 1959. Eisenhower told the director of Mt. Weather (codenamed High Point): I expect your people to save our government. It was reported that Millard F. Caldwell, former governor of Florida, suggested that it be used as an alternate capital, because it was believed that the fallout shelter beneath the East Wing of the White House (known as the Presidents Emergency Operation Center) did not offer sufficient protection from a nuclear attack against Washington. The plan is for the President, and key administration officials to be flown out of Washington on Air Force One, which, at an altitude of 45,000 feet, is said to be safer that any area on the ground, can be refueled in the air, and stay airborne for up to three days when the engine will fail because of lack of oil. They will be taken to Mount Weather. It is named for the weather station that was formerly maintained on the mountain by the Department of Agriculture. The facility was constructed inside a mountain made of greenstone and striated granite, the 4th hardest rock known to man; the entrance is sealed with a door, similar to that of a bank vault, only much larger; and it is guarded around the clock. There are also about 65 primary buildings on the surface that is part of this complex. There are 403 people there to take care of the needs of the 1,000 to 2,500 that work there everyday, around the clock. Richard Pollack, a reporter for Progressive Magazine, in the mid1970s, interviewed a number of people who had been inside the manmade cavern, and revealed that it is an underground city with roads, sidewalks, office buildings, cafeterias, dormitories, medical facilities, a television station, law enforcement unit, fire department, and a batterypowered subway. It is illuminated with fluorescent lighting. It has a springfed artificial lake (large enough for water skiing), its own waterworks, a power plant, and one of the most sophisticated computer systems in the world. It even has a chamber for members of Congress to meet. It can support a population of 200 for up to 30 days, although it can accommodate up to 2,000 people. Only the President, his Cabinet, and the Supreme Court would have private sleeping quarters. The President or the next in line of succession, would take his place in an area there known as the White House. But until then, a FEMA official is performing the function as Mount Weather is now performing the duties of a backup United States Government. Pollack wrote: Highlevel government sources, speaking under the promise of strict anonymity, told me that each of the federal departments (Agriculture, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Labor, State, Transportation, and the Treasury) represented at Mount Weather is headed by a single person on whom is conferred the rank of a Cabinetlevel official. Protocol even demands that subordinates address them as Mr. Secretary. Each of the Mount Weather Cabinet members is apparently appointed by the White House and serves an indefinite term. Many of the Secretaries have held their positions through several administrations. There are also parallel versions of the Selective Service, the Veterans Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the Post Office, the Civil Service Commission, the Federal Power Commission, and the Federal Reserve. In 1975, Senator John Tunney (DCA) made the accusation that Mount Weather had records on more than 100,000 Americans, and a computer system that gave them access to detailed information on virtually every American. He said they were out of control. In 1975, Maj. General Leslie Bray, director of the Federal Preparedness Agency (which became FEMA as a result of Executive Order 12148 on July 20, 1979, who also took over the duties and responsibilities of the Defense Civil Preparedness Agency and Federal Disaster Assistance Administration), told the Senate that Mount Weather has extensive files on military installations, government facilities, communications, transportation, energy and power, agriculture, manufacturing, wholesale and retail services, manpower, financial, medical and educational institutions, sanitary facilities, population, housing shelter, and stockpiles.
Bray also told the Senate that the list of those chosen to go there in the event of an emergency had 6,500 names on it. All those on the list have a photo I.D. card with the following inscription: The person described on this card has essential emergency duties with the Federal Government. Request full assistance and unrestricted movement be afforded the person to whom this card is issued. In 1961 (Cuban Missile Crisis), 1963 (JFK assassination), and 2001 (September 11th terrorist attacks), the facility was activated to assume governmental responsibilities.
Raven Rock At Raven Rock Mountain, at the 4,667 acre Raven Rock State Park in Franklin County (near Fountain Dale), on Blue Ridge Summit, is an Alternate Joint Communications Center (AJCC) simply known as Site R (for Raven Rock) or The Rock, which is just over the state line near Waynesboro, PA.
It is about 6 miles north of the Presidential retreat of Camp David in Catoctin Mountains near Thurmont (MD), and it is believed by some to be connected with it via a tunnel. In 1950, President Truman approved the 716 acres as part of Camp Albert C. Ritchie in Maryland. Construction began in 1950, and it became operational in 1953. It came under the auspices of Fort Detrick (MD) when Fort Ritchie closed in September, 1998, as part of the 1995 Base Realignment and Closure Act.
Because of its backup status, it is known as the underground Pentagon. It is actually a duplicate of the Pentagons Command and Control Center, and was used by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz during the September 11th terrorist attacks. It provides computer services, functions as a disaster recovery site, and oversees over 38 communications systems. The 260,000 square foot facility lies 650 feet beneath the 1,529 foot summit, and can be accessed by 4 tunnels, which is secured by a chain link fence. There are five buildings within the complex with at least three of them being 3story structures. Inside this massive bunker, which can accommodate 3000 people, there is an underground reservoir containing millions of gallons of water, fluorescent lighting, medical/dental facilities, dining facilities, a fitness center, a convenience store (Post exchange), a barber shop, a chapel, 35 miles of phone lines, and six 1,000watt generators. In 2002, in a Department of Defense briefing, in response to a question as to why $74 billion needed to be allocated for upgrades to the facility for power, cooling, and staff accommodation, it was revealed that it fits into the overall continuity of government plans. According to the 1994 U.S. Army Military Police publication Physical Security of the Alternate Joint Communications Center they reference a location known as Site Creed which is the limited area on the west side of the AJCC with an underground building complex. Highly secured, most personnel at Site R did not even know it existed. It is a Presidential Emergency Facility (PEF) that is codenamed the Lucy and Desi Suite.
Greenbrier Facility Codenamed Project Greek Island, (and sometimes Casper) only a halfdozen members of Congress, at any one time, knew of its existence. On Sunday, May 31, 1992, an article by Ted Gup, a Washington correspondent for Time magazine, appeared in the Washington Post (pg. W11), which revealed that this secret 112,000 square foot facility was located under and beside the Greenbrier Resort Hotel, which is located on 6,500 acres in the Allegheny Mountains in White Sulpher Springs in West Virginia. About 250 miles from Washington D.C., it is an hour away by plane. The luxury hotel actually looks like the White House. In the winter of 194142, it served as an internment area for Japanese, Italian, and German diplomats. In 1949, Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson held a meeting there with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretaries of the Army, Air Force and Navy for a topsecret discussion of postwar military strategy. In 1956, Eisenhower had an international meeting there with the leaders of Canada and Mexico. In 1960, when they began work on their new West Virginia Wing (which contains a complete medical clinic), the Greenbrier website indicates that the top secret relocation center for the U.S. Congress was constructed underneath. It was completed 21/2 years later. Supposedly deactivated, there are actually public tours of the former government relocation facility now. Its purpose was to house the Congress in the event of a nuclear attack. It has an area for the Senate, House, and a large hall for joint sessions. According to former House Speaker Thomas P. Tip ONeill, who received an annual briefing about the site, spouses would not be allowed in during a nuclear event. The relocation centers largest room is actually part of the Wings design. It is 89 by 186 feet, and has a 20 foot high ceiling supported by 18 huge columns. It is now called the Exhibition Hall, and is used for conference events. It has a vehicular, as well as pedestrian entrance, both of which can be sealed off quickly by blast doors hidden behind a false wall. To hotel guests, it appears only to be a very large room. However, its purpose is for joint sessions of Congress. Behind the hall is a 470seat auditorium for the House of Representative and a 130seat auditorium for the Senate. Not too far from these areas is a large white door leading to a corridor about 20 yards long, which culminates with a locked door, and a sign that says: Danger: High Voltage Keep Out. Beyond that is an underground installation having 2 foot thick concrete walls reinforced with steel, and a concrete roof under 20 feet of dirt; and contains an infirmary with an operating table, hundreds of metal bunk beds, a shower room, numerous offices, a television studio, radio and communications room, dining room, an internal power plant (with two 2story high diesel generators); and a pathological waste incinerator, or cremation oven, which would be used to dispose of bodies, because once the doors are sealed, they can not be opened again until the crisis has passed. A tunnel for vehicles was constructed through the hill to a secret location at the rear of the property which easily accesses Route 60 and a railroad. The facility was connected, via an underground cable, to a microwave communications outpost at nearby Kates Mountain Road, in the Greenbrier State Forest. Though this facility is said to be decommissioned, my feeling is that the Government didnt spend millions of dollars on such a facility for it not to be used.
Mount Pony Mount Pony, east of Culpeper, Virginia, near the intersection of Routes 658 and 3, about 70 miles southwest of Washington, is a 201/2 acre site, which contains a 140,000 square foot underground facility with a 400 foot long bunker built of steel reinforced concrete a foot thick and covered with 2 to 4 feet of dirt.
It was built in 1969 as a Continuity of Government facility and operated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, where 7 computers became the central point for all American electronic fund transfers. It is selfsustaining, with its own wells, power system, electrical generator, indoor pistol range, incinerator, maintenance shops, cafeteria and storage for water and fuel. It was able to house 540 people for 30 days. Until 1988, it stored several billion dollars of currency that would be used to replenish currency supplies east of the Mississippi, and reactivate the economy after a nuclear attack, including a large quantity of $2 bills, in its 23,500 square foot vault with ceilings over 11 feet high, which were shrinkwrapped and stacked on pallets 9 feet high. It was decommissioned in July, 1992, and in 1997, Congress approved its transfer to the Library of Congress who is using use the installation to protect its collection of 150,000 movies and recordings.
Warrenton Training Center The Warrenton Training Center (WTC) was initially established in June, 1951, and is believed to contain an underground relocation center for an unknown Federal Agency. According to a report on the Environmental Protection Agency website, the WTC is identified as a closed and classified communications training and support facility of the National Communications System. The NCS was established in 1963 by President Kennedy to coordinate intragovernment communications between 23 Federal Agencies (including U.S. Information Agency and Postal Service), as well as the State Department and CIA. In June, 1973 it was transferred to the Department of the Army, and redesignated as the U.S. Army Training Group and U.S. Army Security Agency. In September, 1982, it was placed under the auspices of the Defense Department. The WTC encompasses four sites all secured by a chain link fence. There are 2 underground facilities (Site A and B), on Vinetree Mountain, which some say are connected by a tunnel, because they are only a couple of miles apart. Site A is at the intersection of Routes 802 and 744, southwest of Warrenton, Virginia. It seems to be the only place where training actually occurs, and contains several small buildings in a heavily wooded area. Site B is on top of the mountain at Bear Wallow Road on Route 690, and is about 2 miles northwest of Warrenton. Located on 346 acres, this is the official headquarters for the WTC. It has many multistory buildings, many built in the late 1980s, and is nearly impossible to see from any publicly accessible areas. Its facilities include 2 microwave towers, a large water tank, the Brushwood Conference center, and a pond. There is testimony attesting to the fact that it contains underground facilities. It is part of a fiber optic system that runs from Site C and D, and connects to other intelligence outposts for Washington like Site E, the microwave station in Tysons Corner, Virginia. These two are codenamed Yogurt and Byjams. Site C, codenamed Brandy, because of the nearby town Brandy Station, is a few miles southeast of Remington on Routes 651 and 654, and has a lot of high frequency antennas, including several directional antennas. These 3 sites are located in Fauquier County. Site D is located at Routes 669 and 672, just north of State Route 3, in Culpeper County, 10 miles east of Culpeper, Virginia. It also has a lot of antennas, though fewer of them are high frequency. There is more activity here, and the buildings are larger.
Some Other Underground Facilities in the Federal Arc The Office of Emergency Preparedness (OEP, now known as FEMA) built a hardened (protected against nuclear attack) underground facility in 1971 at 5231 Riggs Road (Gaithersburg), near junction of Routes 97 and 108, beneath a cow pasture, in Montgomery County, MD, between Olney and Laytonsville. It is entered by a staircase from a small surface building, although there is a horizontal entrance that is used to unload freight.
The Federal Regional Center at the Olney Special Facility had served as the Alternate National Warning Center (contained a National Civil Defense Computer system) and was one of two centers (the other being at the North American Aerospace Defense Command or NORAD in Cheyenne Mountain) that would issue a warning in case of a nuclear attack on the United States. It was believed by some to be at least 10 levels deep, however the report of 2 levels seems to be more realistic. It takes up an area of 65,000 square feet. With the Warning Center supposedly transferred to Thomasville, Georgia, it now serves as a Satellite Teleregistration Facility, along with other Regional Centers. There was a bunker located under the north lawn of the National Park Services Stephen P. Mather Training Center (formerly Storer College) off Fillmore Street in Harpers Ferry, Virginia. It was to be the emergency relocation center (ERC) for the Department of Interior. Containing only pedestrian access, the door is set into a retaining wall adjacent to the driveway. The facility is now used by the NPS Interpretive Design Center. There is an abandoned bunker, codenamed Cannonball, on top of Cross Mountain in Franklin County, near the town of Shimpstown, PA (south of Mercersburg), that served as a FEMA V.I.P. Evacuation and Support Center. It is a 103 foot high cylindrical tower, that is 25 foot in diameter, with reinforced concrete walls 15 inches thick. The tower, accessed through a blast door on its side at ground level, contained microwave communications equipment, and served as a microwave relay station. It is believed to have one underground level, which is now flooded. The site also contains an 8,000 gallon fuel tank. A similar looking facility, part of the same network of facilities, known as a V.I.P. Evacuation and Support facility (codenamed Corkscrew), is located at Boonesboro, Maryland, between Middletown and Rohersville, on the spine of South Mountain, called Lambs Knoll. On Reno Mountain Road, near the monument of the Civil War officer (Reno), there is an unmarked blacktopped service road (marked Private) that leads to the gate of this installation and around to the back of a silolike structure, where, a short distance away, is a metal door below ground level.
There are no other visible surface structures, which makes it obvious that its facilities are underground. It is fenced in, not marked with any signs, and has an unmanned electric gate. On the grounds there are a couple of collapsible antenna masts and fire tower, and an AT&T relay tower. On the USGS map it is referred to as a fire tower and helipad; while local people refer to it as a missile site, missile silo, weather station, radar site or atmospheric test facility. It is not only a microwave relay station; it is also a complete Presidential Emergency Facility (PEF) which contains a 2level underground circular bunker (it is divided into wedgeshaped rooms like a pie) about 100 feet in diameter. Another underground FEMA V.I.P. Evacuation and Support Facility has been identified at Hearthstone Mountain, west of Hagerstown, MD. One of 60 (20 are underground hardened installations) built around the country, it housed an AUTOVON (Automatic Voice Network) center, terrestrial microwave links and troposcatter radio equipment. They were typically large, multilevel installations built to withstand a nuclear attack, with walls 11/2 feet thick, and shielded with copper to repel electromagnetic pulse.
There is a decontamination chamber and internal filtering system, power generators (with fuel storage), bunks, medical supplies, and enough food to accommodate a staff of 30 for about three weeks. This site is said to be abandoned.
Other Underground FEMA Facilities During the 1950s, it was reported that there was a large underground facility underneath the AT&T building in downtown Santa Rose, California, which was believed to have tunnels extending a couple miles away to a nearby military base.
In 1992, about 15 miles southeast of Santa Rosa, in the mountains near the Napa and Sonoma County line, another underground facility was built. Investigated by the Napa Sentinel, they were told by officials at Travis Air Force Base and Hamilton AFB, that it was to be a FEMA base. There is a large microwave transmitter there. East of Santa Rosa, in a remote area of Napa, in Oakville, near the top of the mountain, is the Oakville Grade Facility, which is another secret underground installation that is part of the Continuity of Government system. Constructed of reinforced steel, it replaced other sites which were located in Benicia, and an old railway tunnel in Ukiah. The first concrete reinforced underground FEMA Federal Regional Center (FRC) in the country (representing Region VI and states of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas) was constructed on a 20 acre parcel of land in Denton, Texas (800 North Loop 288). The FRC for Region X (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Washington) is an underground office facility located in a refurbished decommissioned Nike missile site in Bothell, Washington (130 228th Street SW).
The FRC complex for Region I (Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts) is at 63 (Bldg. A) and 65 (Bldg. B) on Old Marlboro Road, in Maynard, MA (Middlesex County), and has an underground facility containing 2 levels. The FRC for Region IV (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Missouri, N. Carolina, S. Carolina, Tennesse) in Thomasville, Georgia is located on a 38 acre site, and is a 37,734 square foot underground facility that was built in the early 1970s. It has its own independent water, power and support systems, as well as a telecommunications center. The FRC for Region VIII (Colorado, Montana, N. Dakota, S. Dakota, Utah, Wyoming) is located at the Denver Federal Center (accessed through Gate 1 at W. 6th Avenue and Kipling Street in Lakewood, CO). During World War II, a 2,080 acre area west of Denver was the site of the Denver Ordnance Plant, which produced ammunition for the war. Afterwards, the Government kept 690 acres, which became the single largest concentration of federal offices outside of Washington, DC.
In 1963, the FEMA center was located in building 50, with a 96 foot by 22 foot Quonsettype (corrugated steel structure with arched ribs) bunker submerged in the ground west of it. In 1969 they moved to building 710, a selfcontained, twolevel underground installation that can provide working and living space for 300 government personnel for up to 30 days. It is accessed through a lobby that protrudes from the earth, and beyond the blast door is a command center, offices, reception area, living area (male and female dormitories with 3tier bunk beds, pantry, dining facilities, lockers, restrooms, and showers) and communications center (with computers, high frequency radios, ham radio, and a 10,000 watt transmitter which is protected against electromagnetic pulse, lightning and electrical surge). It can operate independently of public utilities, has a main and backup generators, an 800 foot well, and a 5,000 gallon water tank. A 40 acre antenna field contains 10 aboveground, and 2 buried antenna (which can be raised to the surface in the event the others are damaged). Because these installations were constructed during the Cold War, when there was a constant threat of nuclear attack, their locations were kept a highlyguarded secret. The information I outlined on the FEMA installations within the Federal Arc is all that is known about the facilities near the seat of power in Washington which means there are many others. In addition, because officials from Washington could be anywhere in the country on a given day, it is necessary to have underground facilities around the country.
For instance, when the terrorist attacks occurred on September 11th President Bush was at an elementary school in Sarasota, Florida. With the skies being a very dangerous place, his plane redirected to Offutt Air Force Base, outside Omaha, Nebraska, where he was taken to a blastproof bunker beneath a tiny brick building. So, basically there are probably a lot of underground facilities around the country. Besides serving as Emergency Relocation Centers, there are also regional installations for FEMA operations, as well as bunkers that are used for military purposes. Although it is not known how many are still operational, most likely a lot of them are. Again, just like the detention centers, there is a list available on the internet of underground installations throughout the country. Though I would love to reproduce the list here, I struggled with the fact that, for the most part, these lists are not totally accurate. It is admitted that most of these underground facilities would not be able withstand the direct hit of a nuclear blast, which is why the secrecy of their locations was so important. However, were their primary purpose to really be functional bomb shelters? Its safe to say that billions of dollars were spent to build these installations within a twentyyear period. Its almost as if government officials were expecting our country to be totally decimated.
I believe there was a secondary reason for their construction. In a time of martial law, they will be able to protect Government officials from any sort of paramilitary attack from the citizenry. No matter what is happening on the surface, they will be able to run the country and direct events from below.
CONCLUSION A patriot must always be ready to defend his country against the government. Edward Abbey (192789, Western novelist and essayist) Even though the Illuminati ceased to exist as an organization in the 1790s, the organizations leaders kept the conspiracy alive, and continued working towards their goal of a one world socialist government. Since then, as you have read, various organizations have been established to perpetuate these goals, but the term Illuminati continues to be used as the name for the engineers of this Master Conspiracy, since it is more recognizable than the various secret, and little known organizations that are carrying out this Satanic plot.
It is believed, that at the pinnacle of the Illuminati, is a group of nine men, who, for the most part are the descendants of the original Illuminati conspirators. It has been reported that they met on June 12, 1952 in France, at the Castle of Arginy (which is where Hugues de Paynes founded the Knights Templar in 1118), under the name Order of the Temple, to set their final plans in motion for the establishment of a oneworld government; also on March 21, 1981, in Switzerland, in a mansion once owned by the Order of the Knights of Malta; then again in France, 1984, as the International Order of Chivalry, Solar Tradition. In October, 1977, the John Birch Society printed a secret report retrieved from the office of C. (Clarence) Douglas Dillon (CFR member, head of Dillon, Read and Company, former Chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation, and former Secretary of the Treasury under Kennedy and Johnson) that indicated that the proponents of oneworld government had hoped to establish a new World Order by 1976, but by 1970, the date appeared to be impractical, and a new agenda was drawn up, which had required about 15 years for completion. However, 1985 also came without their goals being realized. The sweeping social reforms of the past, brought us the Social Security and Welfare system, and now the move is on for a National Health Care program. On April 18, 1994, the Associated Press reported that Sen. Jay Rockefeller (DWV) said: Were going to push through health care reform regardless of the views of the American people. This is all part of the Master Plan, because it is the ultimate goal of the Illuminati, for the American citizen to eventually be totally dependent upon the government for their security, food, electricity, heat, clothing, and other necessities. Once that potential exists, oneworld government is right around the corner. Slowly our country is being globalized, to fit into the world marketplace. In the Trade Act of 1988, the Commerce Department was charged with the responsibility of instituting the conversion to the metric system, which is now known as the International System. Federal law now mandates that all products must list both metric and nonmetric measurements. One world with one form of measurement. The economy of the United States, which has been allowed to erode for years, began to experience what may have been the beginning of the final assault, when the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was adopted. This twovolume document, nearly 1,100 pages in length, which incorporates most of the provisions of the 1988 Canadian Free Trade Agreement (CFTA), makes the United States, Canada, and Mexico unequal partners in trade. On December 31, 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed Executive Order #12662 which said, that regardless of the constitutionality of decisions made by the binational committees of the CFTA, the United States had to accept it. When NAFTA was approved by Congress, more of our national sovereignty was given up to Mexico. Since Mexican workers do not have minimum wage protection and do not have the right to bargain collectively, the agreement has made Mexico fertile territory for American companies to relocate, thus creating a huge loss of American jobs, and the exploitation of the Mexican workforce. That is only part of the inequities that are contained in this agreement. Since the inception of NAFTA (January 1, 1994), some of the initial results, were that net exports to Mexico had fallen by nearly $500 million, our trade surplus with Mexico had been cut in half, more than 230 companies had moved to Mexico, and there had been a tremendous increase in Americas investment in Mexico.
Mattel, the toy manufacturing giant, said that NAFTA would create more American jobs, yet the Public Citizens Global Trade Watch reported that they laid off 520 workers at their Medina, New York facility. The report further stated that As of midAugust 1995, the Department of Labor had certified 38,148 workers as having lost their jobs to NAFTA. Months later, the Clinton Administration reported that 127,000 jobs were created by NAFTA (as of 2001, according to Raul HinojosaOjeda, research director of the North American Integration & Development Center at University of California at Los Angeles, only about 100,000 new jobs have been added), but what they didnt reveal, was that a report by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress indicated that the nation had lost 137,000 jobs (this total had risen to 316,000 by 2001). During the first nine months of 1994, our trade surplus with Mexico shrunk by 27 percent. This report further said that this was only the tip of the job displacement iceberg. According to Rep. Marcy Kaptur (DOH), NAFTA promoters said that 60,000 American manufactured cars would be exported to Mexico in 1994, but only 28,000 were. Not only that, we ended up importing 278,000 cars from Mexico. The highly skilled, wellpaying positions have gone to Mexico, while lowpaying, lowskilled jobs have been created in the United States. This stems from the fact that the raw materials and parts are exported to Mexico, assembled, then imported back into the country at a far greater value.
Rep. Peter DeFazio (DOR) said:
Theres also a conspiracy of silence on the part of the Republican leadership in Congress who provided the votes needed to pass this turkey.
In 1848, Karl Marx said:
Free trade breaks up old nationalities ... in a word, the free trade system hastens social revolution. Henry Kissinger said that NAFTA represented the most creative step toward a New World Order.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) came into existence in 1947 as the overseer of the multilateral trading system. It was an instrument of the United Nations.
On January 1, 1995 the World Trade Organization (WTO), the descendant of the proposed International Trade Organization (1948) and Organization for Trade Cooperation (1954), replaced GATT, presenting a new agreement which included GATT 1994. During the 1940s and 1950s the Congress and the country was not ready to have their economic authority transferred to international control.
In 1958, Sen. George Malone of Nevada said:
The global theory of free trade is siphoning off Americas wealth and bringing her economy to the level of others. The theory is displacing American workers who otherwise would be employed.
GATT 1994 was a document consisting of 22,000 pages of information, tariff schedules, rules and regulations; and 650 pages of enabling legislation. Based on its size, how many of our legislators do you think read every word of this trade agreement; and based on its complexity, if it was read was it understood? It is the only international agreement which sets the global rules for world trade, and provides for the mediation of disputes, which is argued by many to be the best way to open up foreign markets to U.S. exports, because protectionist countries, as well as the U.S. would have to lower their tariffs (producing a loss in revenue), to create an even playing field.
However, critics familiar with its contents say that it will succeed in seriously damaging our national sovereignty and independence. Proponents disagree, saying that any country can withdraw from membership after giving a six month notice. As one of the 146 member nations, the United States would only have one vote, yet it would have to pay nearly 25% of the cost. The GATT agreement would have the power to force Congress to change laws by declaring them to be protectionist (WTO Charter, Article 16, Section 4), and if we dont comply, we would be subject to trade sanctions. Financier, Sir James Goldsmith, a member of the European Parliament, said in his testimony before Congress, that GATT would cause a global social upheaval the likes of which Karl Marx never envisioned. The October 24, 1994 issue of Barrons, indicated that the WTO is a de facto world government.
William Holder, deputy general counsel of the UNs International Monetary Fund, said that the WTO is a de jure (by law) world government. In all actuality, this legislation is a Treaty, and as such, should have required approval by twothirds of the Senate; instead, it was considered a Trade Agreement, which only required a majority vote. Even though, during the midterm elections of November, 1994, the country overwhelmingly voted to change the course our country has taken, GATT was still brought to a vote during the lame duck session of the 103rd Congress and passed, rather than waiting for the Republicanmajority Congress that was elected. Some opponents believe, that if the vote had been postponed, it may never have been ratified, at least, in its present form.
But that was unlikely, since its passage was a bipartisan effort spearheaded by a group of key Republicans lead by Majority leader, Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, and Speaker of the House Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia (a member of the CFR); and conservative thinktanks like the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute. The question looms before us as to whether we are actually better off as a country now, compared to the way we were prior to the initiation of everything that has been outlined in this book. I think the answer is a resounding No! Right now, the world is a very volatile place hostilities in foreign countries are threatening, the world economy is teetering, and democracy hangs in the balance, as a handful of men patiently wait for a few more pieces of the puzzle to fall into place, so they can spring their trap. It would be impossible, within the confines of this format, to fully explore the complex structure of deceit that has been put into place. However, after looking at many pieces of this puzzle, though the picture is incomplete, enough have been put together so that we can now step back and get a panoramic view of how we got to where we are. Its not going to be a pretty picture. Our way of life is going to be drastically changed because of the tyranny of a government out of control. How did this happen right under our nose? In 1999, Warner Brothers released a little movie called The Matrix. Not considered a major project, it was shot in Australia to save money. Expectations were not high for this edgy scifi action film, however, after its opening, it was quite clear that its writers, the Wachowski Brothers had struck gold by tapping into the collective intellectual consciousness of a nation that was preparing to enter a new millennium. Most movies are made to entertain, and are fairly straight forward in their approach, but The Matrix challenged its viewers. Incredibly unique was the fact that different people, who saw it, had different interpretations of its meaning. The plot revolves around Neo, a computer hacker (played by Keanu Reaves) who discovers that the world he lives in is nothing more than a computer simulation that is being fed into his brain as his body rests in a pod, in the real world, along with endless numbers of others, providing the energy that sustains the machines that run the world. When I read the original script, there were lines in there that did not appear in the movie. For instance, Anthony (whose name was changed to Choi in the movie) says to DuJour about Neo: I told you, honey, he may look like just another geek but this here is all we got left standing between Big Brother (a term from George Orwells book 1984) and the New World Order.
Also, in a chatroom called The Matrix, we find the following comments:
Quark: The Matrix is a euphemism for the government. Superastic: No, the Matrix is the system controlling our lives.
Its not hard to see that these lines were removed, so the movie wouldnt come across as being a political commentary that was intended to convey their contention that we are living in the Matrix, which is being controlled in the real world by the boys in the New World Order. Especially revealing is the scene in the movie when Neo meets Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne), the leader of the resistance, at the Lafayette Hotel, and tells him what the Matrix is:
The Matrix is everywhere. It is all around us. Even now, in this very room. You can see it when you look out your window, or when you turn on your television. You can feel it when you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your taxes. It is the world that has been pulled over your eyes, to blind you from the truth.
Applying the Wachowskis innuendo to our current situation, we find that they have described a system of Command and Control that has been able to so dominate and overwhelm that we have been completely deceived into believing a lie. In the movie, Neo is unplugged from the Matrix, enabling him to see the real world. It is my hope, that with the knowledge you gain from reading this book, you will be unplugged from the Matrix, and begin to see for yourself that things arent what they seem.
That the world you thought you were living in doesnt really exist.
Back to Contents
