# Final warning a history of the new world order c6

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/history_nwo/history_nwo06.htm

Final warning
a history of the new world order
chapter six
setting the stage for world war II
the protocols of the learned elders of zion
The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion is a 25,000 word document, which contains 24 Protocols by a member of a secret group of Jews, known as the Elders of Zion. It purported to be an outline for the control of the world by the Jews, with the help of the Masons. The document has been used to prove that the Illuminati is an exclusively Jewish plan for world domination, and has put the Jewish race in a bad light. In the course of some very intense research, I have not found any concrete evidence to prove this accusation. There is no Jewish conspiracy. Even though the Illuminatis founders were Jewish, and many influential Jews were part of the inner circle, that is no reason to indict the entire Jewish race.
The Bible identifies the Jews as Gods chosen people, so it is highly unlikely that, as a race, they are behind such a Satanic plot. It has even been said that the people in Israel are not true Jews. One only has to look at the history of Israel, and see how they have been able to miraculously survive, to see that this is nothing but anti-Semitic rhetoric. It is not race, which is the common denominator here; it is money and greed. For the most part, the conspiracy has been dominated by the Europeans, and perpetuated by the English-speaking countries of the world.
No one is quite sure about this notorious document, and how it fits into the puzzle of the one-world government conspiracy. We know that its influence was taken advantage of, by the Illuminati, however, as to the actual origin and its purpose, we may never know for sure, because portions of it are highly accurate in its revelations. It is either true, or a clever forgery. If it is true, how much of it is true? If it is a forgery, it most certainly was based upon a factual document. Whatever the case, it is included in this book because it may contain some clues about the early stages of the Illuminati conspiracy, and the people behind it.
French Jesuit, the Abbé Barruel, who in 1797 wrote the five-volume Memoire pou servir á l´histoire du Jacobinisme, received a copy of a letter in 1806, from J. B. Simonini, an army officer in Florence. In it was a statement that the Jews promised themselves that in less than a century, they would be the masters of the world. This letter had been widely circulated in France. It was later revealed that the letter had been fabricated by the French police to turn Napoleon against the Jews.
In 1848, Hermann Goedsche, a German postal official, forged letters indicating that Benedic Waldeck was conspiring to assassinate Frederick William IV, the King of Prussia. After it became known that they were forgeries, he was removed from his job, and he began writing under the pseudonym, Sir John Retcliffe. One of those novels, Biarritz, written in 1868, contained a chapter titled, In the Jewish Cemetery in Prague, in which the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel met with Satan to tell him of their plans to control the world. However, the covert proceeding was witnessed by two men, who then dedicated their lives to fighting the Satanic Jewish plot. In 1872, Russian anti-Semites printed the chapter in a pamphlet, as fiction based on fact. It was reprinted in 1876 and 1880. In July, 1881, the story was published in the French paper Le Contemporain as fact, and all of the speeches by each tribal head were consolidated into a single speech, supposedly made by a chief rabbi in a secret meeting of influential Jews. To substantiate the claim, it was said to have been taken from a forthcoming book by English diplomat, Sir John Readclif (a take-off on Goedsches pen name), called Annals of the Political and Historic Events of the Last Ten Years.
In 1891, the story appeared in the Russian newspaper Novorossiysky Telegraf, which established that the speech was made in 1869 by a rabbi to a secret Sanhedrin (possibly referring to the First Congress of Reformed Judaism, held in Leipzig). Its authenticity, again, was supported by the fictional Sir John Readclif. Later, in the October 21, 1920 issue of La Vielle France, the newspaper said there was a striking analogy between the Protocols of the Elders of Zion and the discourse of Rabbi Reichhorn, presented in Prague in 1869, over the tomb of the Grand Rabbi Simeon-ben-Ihuda.
Early in 1900, this fictional speech was used to instigate pogroms against the Jews, and became known as The Rabbis Speech. An anti-Semite, P. A. Khrushevan, used the speech to provoke a pogrom at Kishinev, in the Ukraine, in 1903, in which 45 Jews were killed, and 400 injured, in an incident that destroyed 1,300 Jewish homes and shops. The speech is now used to prove the authenticity of the Protocols.
The document known as the Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion, seems to be a conglomeration of many anti-Jewish publications during that period. In 1869, Gougenot de Mousseaux wrote a book that said that the world was being taken over by a group of Satan-worshipping Jews, out of which a man would emerge that the Jews would worship as their returned Messiah. In 1881, Abbé Chabauty wrote a 600-page book that said Satan was using the Jews to prepare the way for the Antichrist. His second book, published in 1882, included two letters that were allegedly written in 1489 by a Jewish leader who spoke of the Jews rising up to dominate the world. These letters have come to be known as the Letter of the Jews of Constantinople. They were actually satirical comments on the Spanish Jews.
In 1893, Monsignor Meurin, the Archbishop of Port Louis, Mauritius, said: Freemasonry is fundamentally Jewish, exclusively Jewish, passionately Jewish, from the beginning to the end, and that someday history will tell how all the revolutions of recent centuries originated in the Masonic sect under the supreme command of the Jews. He said that the Masons of the 33rd degree were the leaders of the conspiracy, and indeed the Protocols are signed: ...by the representatives of Zion, of the 33rd degree. In World Conquest by the Jews, Osman-Bey wrote, that in 1840, a meeting of eminent Jewish leaders was held in Cracow, Poland, to discuss the expansion of Judaism over the entire world. This book became the framework for the Protocols.
Victor E. Marsden, the Russian correspondent for The Morning Post of London, wrote in his 1934 English translation of the Protocols, that in 1884, Joseph Schorst, a Jew who was a member of the Mizraim Lodge, stole the document and sold it for 2,500 francs to Justine Glinka, the daughter of a Russian General. She in turn gave the French document, and a Russian translation to Gen. Orgevskii in St. Petersburg, who gave it to his superior, Gen. Cherevin, who filed it. Glinka was later arrested, returned to Russia, and exiled to her estate in Orel; while Schorst was killed in Egypt. It had also been reported that Glinka had given a copy to Alexis Sukhotin, a law enforcement official in Orel, who then showed them to two friends, Stepanov, and Professor Sergei Nilus, a religious mystic.
Nilus showed them to the Czar in 1903, who believed them to be fraudulent, and ordered that all copies were to be destroyed. After Nilus was banned from the Court, it is believed that he may have altered the text to be more intense then they originally were. However, as far as the mysterious references to the representatives of Sion, of the 33rd degree, he would not have any idea what this meant, and probably would not have altered this and any other in-kind references.
The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion first appeared, in a shortened form, in an August, 1903 edition of the Kishinev newspaper, in the Ukraine; then in 1905, in the appendix of the third edition of a book by Nilus called The Great in the Small, which was about the coming of the Antichrist. Nilus said that the Protocols were translated from the French text of a speech made to 300 influential Jews. A prostitute allegedly stole the document from a leading Jew. A copy was received by the British Museum in London, in August, 1906, where it was translated by English journalist Victor Marsden, who published it in 1921. Marsden said that he couldnt work on the translation for more than an hour at a time, because of the evil he felt while reading it. In 1917, Nilus revised and expanded his book, which he called, He is Near, At the Door: Here Comes the Antichrist and the Reign of the Devil on Earth. Nilus wrote: These Protocols are nothing else than a strategic plan for the conquest of the world ... presented to the Council of the Elders by ... Theodor Herzl, at the time of the first Zionist Congress (held by the World Zionist Organization in 1897, at Basel, Switzerland). However, in his 1905 edition, he said that the Protocols had been given in 1902-03. In fact, with each subsequent edition that appeared in different countries, the origin of the document was different.
On August 16, 17, and 18, 1921, the New York Times ran editorials by Phillip Graves, a London Times correspondent, who said that the Protocols had been copied from a rare 1864 French political satire called Dialogues in Hell Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu (also referred to as the Dialogues of Geneva by the London Times because Geneva had been identified as a center of revolutionary activities) by lawyer Maurice Joly (1831-1878). It was a pamphlet containing a conversation between Montesquieu (presenting a case for liberalism) and Machiavelli (who represented autocracy) which criticized the government of Napoleon III (who was deposed in 1871). Being illegal to criticize the Monarchy, he fictionalized it, making Napoleon the character of Machiavelli, to explain the Emperors underlying motives. Joly had it printed in Belgium, then attempted to have it smuggled over the French border. It was seized by the police, who confiscated as many copies as they could, then banned the book. The police traced the book to Joly, who was then tried on April 25, 1865, and sentenced to fifteen months in prison. At the Berne trials, a witness for the prosecution tried to prove that Joly was a Jew, and that his book was a coded version of the Jewish plan for world domination. Another writer, Victor Hugo (1802-1885), a Grand Master of the Prieuré de Sion (1844-1885) who in 1849 made a reference to the United States of Europe, wrote satirical poetry against Napoleon III.
As it turns out, over 160 passages from the Protocols are similar to Jolys book, which is about half the text. Some sections are almost word for word. The only major change is that it was altered from the past, to the future.
Some researchers believe that either, Joly was given the minutes to a Masonic meeting by Adolphe Cremieux (a Mason and Rosicrucian), who urged Joly to write the book, which he did under the pseudonym of Mr. X; or that the minutes were from a Marxist meeting which took place in a Masonic lodge in Geneva, and had been stored in the archives of the Mizraim Masonic Lodge in Paris, where Cremieux, who sat on the Supreme Council, discovered them.
Who could have forged the Protocols isnt known, if in fact it is a forgery. Some researchers claim it was done in Russia, in 1904, by agents of the Czar. However, the general consensus is that it was probably done by Elie de Cyon (Ilya Tsion), a Russian journalist living in Paris, who was an opponent of Sergey Witte, the Russian Minister of Finance.
When Witte took office in 1892, he began to modernize Russia by doubling steel, iron, and coal production; and constructing railroads. He was disliked by those who had their money tied up in agriculture. He caused inflation by abandoning the gold standard in 1898 because of an economic slump. The Protocols say that such economic depressions are caused by the Elders to gain control of the money; and that the gold standard has ruined every country that has adopted it. Researchers say that the economic and financial data could have been extracted from Jolys book, and applied to Witte, in order to present him as a tool of the Elders of Zion.
So, Cyon allegedly forged and translated the Protocols, expanding them as a satire on Witte. His writings resembled the style used in the Protocols; and he was known to have used another French satire on a dead statesman, by changing the names. In 1897, Gen. Pyotr Ivanovich Rachkovsky, head of the Russian Secret Police in Paris, on instructions from Witte, broke into Cyons villa at Territet, Switzerland, to look for additional written attacks on Witte. It is believed that Rachkovsky discovered the Protocols there, and used it for a dual purpose. He could use it against the Jews, claiming it was part of a Jewish conspiracy; and he could reveal that it was written by a Jew, which Cyon was, thus destroying Cyon. It was kind of ironic, that the Russian translation for Cyons name, Tsion, means Zion.
In 1921, Count Alexandru du Chayla said that Nilus revealed to him in 1909 that the Protocols were fraudulent, and had been sent to him by Gen. Rachkovsky.
During the 1934 trial of two Swiss Nazis in Berne, brought by a group of Jews who accused them of distributing the Protocols, the historian Vladimir Burtsev and a professor, Sergey Svatikov, testified that Rachkovsky and other Czarist officials had a hand in the fabrication of the Protocols. In 1891, Rachkovsky sent a letter to the Police, and announced his intentions to oppose the Jews. This was followed up by a book that stated his views about the Jews, and how, as a result of the French Revolution, they controlled Europe. It is quite possible that he added to Cyons manuscript to produce the Protocols, and then gave it to Sergei Nilus to publish in his book. Czar Nicholas II even identified the Protocols as being fraudulent. On May 14, 1935, the Court of Berne ruled that the Protocols were not of Jewish origin.
To complicate matters even more, a book by Jacob Venedey, called Machiavelli: Montesquieu and Rousseau, which was published in Berlin, in 1850, also contained passages very similar to the Protocols.
Standard Oil allegedly had the Protocols distributed in Russia to create a tense situation between the Czarist Russian government, and the Jewish-owned Royal Dutch Co., who had oil distribution rights in Russia. The document was also used in the late 1800s to instigate pogroms against the Jews so they would migrate to the United States. Once they were in America, they were registered to vote Democratic, and greatly contributed to Wilsons election in 1912. During the Russian Civil War from 1918-20, Bolsheviks distributed the Protocols, and in the subsequent pogroms, over 100,000 Jews were killed. During World War II, the document gave Hitler an excuse to exterminate the Jews, and there is evidence which indicates that he was financed and controlled by the Illuminati.
Eventually the Protocols were distributed all over the world, and it gave the anti-Semitic people of various countries an excuse to persecute the Jews. In 1920, U.S. industrialist Henry Ford supported them in a series of articles in his newspaper The Dearborn Independent and eventually in his book The International Jew, which he published in 1921. On February 17, 1921, in New York World, Ford said: The only statement I care to make about the Protocols is that they fit in with what is going on. They are sixteen years old, and they have fitted the world situation up to this time. They fit it now. The German translation was known as The Eternal Jew. Ford supported Hitler, who was seen as fighting against the international Jewish conspiracy. In 1927, he renounced his belief in them after his car was sideswiped, forcing it over a steep embankment. He interpreted this as an attempt on his life by elitist Jews.
In 1938, Father Charles E. Coughlin printed them in his weekly paper Social Justice, and various other semi-religious organizations followed suit.
Those researchers who believe in the authenticity of the Protocols, trace them back to 1785, when the Illuminati courier was struck by lightning on the way to Paris, and their plans for world control was discovered. The Illuminati had drafted a master plan that was worded in such a way, that it diverted attention away from the Illuminati, and directed it towards the Jewish Revolutionary movement in Russia. Their plan would appear to be a Jewish plot to achieve world control through political Zionism, when in fact it represented the future plans of the international bankers of the Illuminati. The fact that the document was anti-Semitic, would help suppress it.
One inescapable fact is that the Protocols do reflect some of the views of Weishaupt, and the writings of various Socialists on Bolshevism; and because of that, they were not easily dismissed. Even though they were written so long ago, they have become an accurate barometer of events during this century, and seem to parallel the goals of the Illuminati, as you can see in these excerpts from the Victor Marsden translation:
Out of the temporary evil we are now compelled to commit, will emerge the good of an unshakable rule, which will restore the regular course of the machinery of the national life, brought to naught by liberalism. The result justifies the means. Let us, however, in our plans, direct our attention not to what is good and moral, as to what is necessary and useful. Our power in the present tottering condition of all forms of power will be more invisible than any other, because it will remain invisible until the moment when it has gained such strength that no cunning can any longer undermine it. Before us is a plan in which is laid down strategically the line from which we cannot deviate without running the risk of seeing the labor of many centuries brought to naught...
Only force conquers in political affairs, especially if it be concealed in the talents essential to statesmen ... This evil is the one and only means to attain the end, the good. Therefore we must not stop at bribery, deceit, and treachery, when they should serve towards the attainment of our end. In politics one must know how to seize the property of others without hesitation if by it we secure submission and sovereignty.
Our international rights will then wipe out national rights, in the proper sense of right, and will rule the nations precisely as the civil law of States rules the relations of their subjects among themselves. The administrators, whom we shall choose from among the public, with strict regard to their capacities for servile obedience, will not be persons trained in the art of government, and will therefore easily become pawns in our game in the hands of men of learning and genius who will be their advisors, specialists bred and reared from early childhood to rule the affairs of the whole world.
Do not suppose for a moment that those statements are empty words: think carefully of the successes we arranged for Darwinism, Marxism, Nietzcheism. To us, at any rate, it should be plain to see what a disintegrating importance these directives have had upon the minds of the goyim (a slur against those who were not Jewish).
Through the Press we have gained the power to influence while remaining ourselves in the shade; thanks to the Press we have got the gold in our hands, notwithstanding that we have had to gather it out of the oceans of blood and tears.
To this end we have stirred up every form of enterprise, we have armed all parties, we have set up authority as a target for every ambition ... disorders and bankruptcy will be universal.
We appear on the scene as alleged saviors of the worker from this oppression when we propose to him to enter the ranks of our fighting forces Socialists, Anarchists, Communists to whom we will always give support.
Our power is in the chronic shortness of food ... Hunger creates the right of capital to rule the worker more surely than it was given to the aristocracy by the legal authority of kings.
By want and the envy and hatred which it engenders we shall move the mobs and with their hands we shall wipe out all those who hinder us ... When the hour strikes for our Sovereign Lord of all the World to be crowned it is these same hands which will sweep away everything that might be a hindrance thereto.
This hatred will be still further magnified by the effects of an economic crisis, which will stop dealings on the exchanges and bring industry to a standstill. We shall create by all the secret subterranean methods open to us and with the aid of gold, which is all in our hands, a universal economic crisis whereby we shall throw upon the streets whole mobs of workers simultaneously in all the countries of Europe.
Remember the French Revolution, to which it was we who gave the name of Great: the secrets of its preparations are well known to us, for it was wholly the work of our hands...
We shall create an intensified centralization of government in order to grip in our hands all the forces of the community. We shall regulate mechanically all the actions of the political life of our subjects by new laws ... These laws will withdraw one by one all the indulgences and liberties which have been permitted ... to wipe out any unenlightened who oppose us by deed or word.
We have set one against another the personal and national reckonings of the goyim religious and race hatred, which we have fostered into a huge growth in the course of the past twenty centuries. This is the reason why there is one State which would anywhere receive support if it were to raise its arm, for every one of them must bear in mind that any agreement against us would be unprofitable to itself. We are too strong there is no evading our power. The nations cannot come to even an inconsiderable private agreement without our secretly having a hand in it...
Nowadays it is more important to disarm the peoples then to lead them into war...
In order to put public opinion into our hands we must bring it into a state of bewilderment by giving expression from all sides to so many contradictory opinions and for such length of time as will suffice to make the goyim lose their heads in the labyrinth and come to see that the best thing is to have no opinion of any kind in matters political, which it is not given to the public to understand, because they are understood only by him who guides the public. This is the final secret.
By all these means we shall so wear down the goyim that they will be compelled to offer us international power of a nature that by its position will enable us, without any violence, gradually to absorb all the State forces of the world and to form a Super-Government ... Its hands will reach out in all directions like nippers and its organization will be of such colossal dimensions that it cannot fail to subdue all the nations of the world.
We shall raise the rate of wages, which, however, will not bring any advantage to the workers, for at the same time, we shall produce a rise in prices ... We shall further undermine artfully and deeply sources of production, by accustoming the workers to anarchy and to drunkedness ... In order that the true meaning of things may not strike the unenlightened before the proper time we shall mask it under an alleged ardent desire to serve the working classes and the great principles of political economy about which our economic theories are carrying on an energetic propaganda.
The intensification of armaments, the increase of police forces are all essential for the completion of the aforementioned plans. What we have to get at is that there should be in all the States of the world, besides ourselves, only the masses of the proletariat, a few millionaires devoted to our interests, police and soldiers.
In a word, to sum up our system of keeping the governments of the goyim in Europe in check, we shall show our strength to one of them by terrorist attempts and to all, if we allow the possibility of general rising against us, we shall respond with the guns of America or China or Japan.
Our directorate must surround itself with all these forces of civilization among which it will have to work. It will surround itself with publicists, practical jurists, administrators, diplomats and, finally, with persons prepared by a special super-educational training in our special schools.
We have in our service persons of all opinions, of all doctrines, restoring monarchists, demagogues, socialists, communists, and utopian dreamers of every kind. We have harnessed them all to one task: each one of them on his own account is boring away at the last remnants of authority, is striving to overthrow all established forms of order.
We have fooled, bemused and corrupted the youth of the goyim by rearing them in principles and theories which are known to us to be false although it is by us that they have been inculcated.
Above the existing laws without altering them, and by merely twisting them into contradictions of interpretations, we have erected something grandiose in the way of results. These results found expression first in the fact that the interpretations masked the laws: afterwards they entirely hid them from the eyes of the government owing to the impossibility of making anything out of the tangled web of legislation.
The chamber of deputies will provide cover for, will protect, will elect presidents, but we shall take from it the right to propose new, or make changes in existing laws, for this right will be given by us to the responsible president, a puppet in our hands ... We shall invest the president with the right of declaring a state of war...
Not a single announcement will reach the public without our control. Even now this is already attained by us inasmuch as all news items are received by a few agencies, in whose offices they are focused from all parts of the world. These agencies will then be already entirely ours and will give publicity only to what we dictate to them.
Our wise men, trained to become leaders of the goyim, will compose speeches, projects, memoirs, articles, which will be used by us to influence the minds of the goyim, directing them towards such understanding and forms of knowledge as have been determined by us.
Economic crises have been produced by us for the goyim by no other means than the withdrawal of money from circulation ... You are aware that the gold standard has been the ruin of the States which adopted it, for it has not been able to satisfy the demands for money, the more so that we have removed gold from circulation as far as possible.
Thanks to such methods (paying interest on loans), allowed by the carelessness of the goy States, their treasuries are empty. The period of loan supervenes, and that has swallowed up remainders and brought all the goy states to bankruptcy.
...any form of taxation per head, the State is baling out the last coppers of the poor taxpayers in order to settle accounts with wealthy foreigners, from whom it borrowed money from the pockets of the poor to those of the rich...
We have got our hands into the administration of the law, into the conduct of elections, into the press, into the liberty of the person, but principally into education and training as being the corner-stones of a free existence.
...it is indispensable for us to undermine all faith, to tear of minds out of the unenlightened the very principle of Godhead and the spirit, and to put in its place arithmetical calculations and material needs.
When we come into our kingdom it will be undesirable for us that there should exist any other religion but ours of the One God with whom our destiny is bound up by our position as the Chosen People and through whom our same destiny is united with the destinies of the world. We must therefore sweep away all other forms of belief.
After reading these words, you may also have a feeling of uneasiness. Seemingly, the Protocols do elaborate on the Illuminati program for world takeover that would not have pertained to the world at the time the Protocols were alleged to have been written. Because of the depth of information given on the various aspects of the plan, I believe that they were written by, or based on the writings of someone who had an intimate knowledge of the future plans and inner workings of the international bankers. From that standpoint, I consider the information to be authentic. However, because the document identifies the Jews as being responsible for carrying out this insidious plot, I consider the Protocols as a whole, to be a fraudulent rendering of an earlier document, which has since been lost.
A few years ago, another theory came to light in regard to the Protocols. If the document was forged with the intent of being an indictment against all Jews, it would not just pinpoint a small group of individuals. It speaks of a King of the blood of Sion who will preside over a Masonic kingdom and that this king will be of the dynastic roots of King David. It claims that the King of the Jews will be the real Pope and the patriarch of an international church.
Eliphas Levi (Alphonse Louis Constant), who had joined a Martinist-affiliated Masonic lodge, which later merged with the Memphis and Mizraim Lodges, had assisted Charles Nodier (Grandmaster of the Prieuré de Sion 1801-1844) to sift through the Vatican documents taken by Napoleon. Before he died in 1875, he said that in 1879 a new political and religious universal Kingdom would be established, and that it would be possessed by him who would have the keys of the East. This unusual comment has lead researchers to believe that he had access to the original Protocol document which was kept at the Mizraim Lodge.
Protocol number 3 states:
When the hour strikes for our Sovereign Lord of all the World to be crowned it is these hands which will sweep away everything that might be a hinderance thereto. Ours they will not touch, because the moment of the attack will be known to us and we shall take measures to protect our own. Ever since that time we have been leading the peoples from one disenchantment to another, so that in the end they should turn also from us in favor of that King- Despot of the blood of Sion, whom we are preparing for the world.
Protocol number 15 states:
When the King of Israel sets upon his sacred head the crown offered to him by Europe he will become the patriarch of the world.
Number 17 says:
The King of the Jews will be the real Pope of the Universe, the patriarch of an international church.
And number 24 reads:
I pass now to the method of confirming the dynastic roots of King David to the last strata of the earth. The prop of humanity in the person of the supreme lord of all the world of the holy seed of David must sacrifice to his people all personal inclinations.
It concludes by saying that certain members of the Seed of David will prepare the Kings and their heirs ... 0nly the King and the three who stood sponsor for him will know what is coming. It is signed ...by the representatives of Sion, of the 33rd degree. These strange references have been linked to a little known organization known as the Prieuré de Sion, which will be discussed in a later chapter. It is possible that the original text of the Protocols was based on a document taken from this organization, which was altered by Sergei Nilus, to make the entire Jewish race look bad.
WORLD WAR II AND THE RISE OF HITLER
As a youth, Adolf Hitler (1889-1945) fled Austria, and went to Germany to escape the draft. He was arrested, and in February, 1914, a report was put in his file, which read in part: Unfit for military or auxiliary service; too weak; incapable of bearing arms. This was the man that the Illuminati would choose to further their goals. As a puppet of the Illuminati, he was used to set the stage for the conflict which would eventually lead to the establishment of the United Nations, a major step towards one-world government; and to shame the world into allowing the State of Israel to be established.
Edward George Bulwer-Lytton (1803-73), a graduate of Cambridge University, and a Mason, who became a member of the British Parliament, wrote a novel in 1871 called Vril: The Power of the Coming Race, about a super-race of white Aryans that took control of the world. Researchers consider him responsible for the birth of the Nazi movement, because Hitler was said to have been influenced by this book, and another novel, Rienzi: The Last of the Roman Tribunes, which was adapted into a major opera by German composer Richard Wagner. After seeing Rienzi for the first time in November, 1906, Hitler talked about a mandate which, one day, he would receive from the people, to lead them out of servitude to the heights of freedom. He believed that he would be entrusted with a special mission. He later told Frau Wagner, the composers widow: In that hour it began (the Nazi movement known as National Socialism).
History shows that Hitler ordered the death of six million Jews during the Holocaust in Europe. Why he did, has become a mystery, since it really hasnt been established that he had an intense hatred for Jews.
A U.S. Office of Strategic Services psychological report by Walter C. Langer, later published as The Mind of Adolf Hitler, says that the young Hitler was befriended by Jewish art dealers who paid generously for his mediocre watercolors. Because of his financial situation, a Jewish landlady charged him only a nominal rent, and even moved out of her apartment on one occasion so that Hitler and a friend could have more room. A Jewish used-clothing dealer gave him a long black overcoat, which he wore constantly. When he was a lance-corporal during World War I, Hitler was awarded the Iron Cross (First and Second Class), a rare honor for a soldier of such low rank, who hadnt really done anything to deserve such a distinction. He learned later, that the commendation was the result of the efforts of the regimental adjutant, Hugo Gutmann, a Jew.
When he became Fuhrer, Hitler hired a Jewish maid to do his cooking. On one occasion, when it was suggested that he get rid of her, he became furious. Dr. Eduard Bloch, a Jewish physician, had been the Hitler family doctor since Hitler was a child. Bloch had treated Hitlers mother when she was dying of cancer. After her funeral, Hitler accompanied his sisters to thank him, and said: I shall be grateful to you forever. He sent the doctor two postcards, one that he handpainted. Both of them said: From your ever grateful patient, Adolf Hitler.
Hitler had even wondered if he himself was Jewish. This idea stemmed from the fact that Hitlers father, Alois, was illegitimate, and the identity of his grandfather had never been established. During Hitlers rise to power, his half-brothers son threatened to reveal that Hitler was of Jewish ancestry. One investigation discovered that Hitlers grandfather had been the son of a Jewish family called Frankenburger, in Gratz, who employed Hitlers grandmother, Maria Anna Schicklgruber, as a maid. She had become pregnant by their son, while she was working in their home. The family sent her money for a year and a half to help support the child. Another investigation said that Alois was conceived in Vienna, where Hitlers grandfather was employed as a servant in the home of Baron Rothschild. Maria was sent home to Spital, where Hitlers father was born.
In Hitlers War, written in 1977 by British author and historical revisionist, David Irving, he revealed that Hitler didnt order the Jewish massacres, and didnt find out about it until late in the war. There is no record of Hitler ever visiting a concentration camp, although he did watch films and see photographs.
So what turned Hitler against the Jews, if indeed he was; or was there someone else making decisions for him.
As early as 1919, he spoke of removing Jews altogether; and in his book Mein Kampf, written while he was in prison in 1924, for the Beer Hall Putsch, spoke of the overthrow of world Jewry: I believe that I am today acting according to the purposes of the almighty Creator. In resisting the Jew, I am fighting the Lords battle. On January 30, 1939, he said in a speech to the Reichstag: Today I want to be a prophet once more: if international finance Jewry inside and outside of Europe should succeed once more in plunging nations into another world war, the consequence will not be the bolshevization of the earth and thereby the victory of Jewry, but the annihilation of the Jewish race in Europe. In a public speech in Munich, on November 8, 1942, he said that International Jewry will be recognized in its full demonic peril; we National Socialists would see to that.
Hitler had read the Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion, and in 1942, was told by Himmler, that they were forged, however, Hitler disregarded that fact and said: We shall regain our health only by eliminating the Jew. He attributed the weakness of the German economy to the Jews, and considered the Treaty of Versailles, a Jewish document. He even accused the Jews of spreading communism; yet in a speech on February 5, 1941, said that basically, National Socialism (Naziism) and Communism are the same.
Why does the life of Hitler seem to be a series of contradictions? One clue was revealed in The Secret Diaries of Hitlers Doctors, written in 1983 by David Irving, which revealed that Hitler had taken 75 different medications. He was given strychnine and belladonna (for gas), cocaine and adrenalin (for conjunctivitis), amphetamines, painkillers, and sedatives, including Eukodal, a synthetic morphine derivative. One has to wonder if Hitler was even aware of what he was being given. Were they being given to him for the sole purpose of making him mentally unstable, so he could be controlled by advisors, who were acting on behalf of the forces that Hitler wrongly identified as the Jewish bankers.
There may also be a more sinister reason which contributed to Hitlers state of mind. Hitler and some of his officers had been linked to various occult groups and the use of the swastika gave evidence of that. In its normal usage, it is a sign of the power of light; but in its reverse form, as used by the Nazis, it represents the power of darkness. According to writer Joseph Carr: We know that Hitler and his top luminaries were either dabblers in the occult, or, outright Satanists. As a youth, Hitler had been influenced by George Lanz von Liebenfels, an Austrian magician who in 1907 founded The Order of the New Templars, which used the swastika as its emblem. He wrote in a 1932 letter that Hitler was one of his pupils and that one day he would develop a movement that will make the world tremble.
Hitler joined a secret group in 1919, called the Thule Society, which practiced black magic and worshipped Satan. They wanted to form a political party to rally the people against communism. Its members were drawn from the upper echelon of Society. The founder, Dietrich Eckart, was one of the seven founding members of the Nazi Party, and said on his deathbed: Follow Hitler. He will dance, but it is I who have called the tune! I have initiated him into the Secret Doctrine, opened his centres in vision and given him the means to communicate with the Powers. Do not mourn for me: I shall have influenced history more than any other German. Hitler grew to fear those around him who practiced the black arts, and it was discovered that along with the Jews, Masons and occult practitioners were also killed and imprisoned in the concentration camps. Some of the reported book burnings were actually the confiscation and destruction of Masonic libraries.
Karl Ernst Haushofer (who created the Vril Society, which made up the inner circle of the Nazi Party), also of the Thule Society, was the University professor who schooled Hitler on geopolitics. Hitler was also influenced by the writings of Friedrich Nietzsche, from whose name came the word Nazi. In 1943, Hitlers birthday gift to Mussolini, was The Collected Works of Nietzche.
In the fall of 1919, Hitler joined the German Workers Party, and soon became one of its leaders. In the summer of 1920, it was renamed the National Socialist German Workers Party, and then in 1923, it became known as the Nazi Party.
Because of Hitlers failed November revolt, he was jailed on April 1, 1924, sentenced to five years, but was released after eight months, so he could be built up to national prominence. Though Mein Kampf was published as a work of Adolf Hitler while he was in prison, it was discovered later that it was actually written by Nazi politicians Rudolf Hess and Hermann Wilhelm Goerring (and possibly Haushofer), as a follow-up to the Karl Marx book A World Without Jews. The Illuminati made sure the book was well circulated, and it became the springboard for Hitlers political career.
In 1925, Dr. Karl Duisberg, I. G. Farbens first Chairman, and founder of the Bayer Co. in the United States, said: Be united, united, united. This should be the uninterrupted call to the parties of the Reichstag. We hope that our words of today will work, and will find the strong man who will finally bring everyone under one umbrella ... for he is always necessary for us Germans, as we have seen in the case of Bismarck. The depressive economic situation in Germany at the time, created by the Versailles Treaty, made it possible for Hitlers leadership to take root, and he became Chancellor in January, 1933.
Since 1924, the Dawes Plan flooded Germany with a tremendous amount of American capital, which enabled Germany to build its war machine. The three largest loans went into the development of industries, such as I. G. Farben Co. (the German company which became the largest corporation in Europe, and the largest chemical company in the world, after a $30 million loan from the Rockefellers National City Bank after World War I, and who created a process of making high grade fuel from low quality coals) and Vereinigte Stahlwerke (who produced about 95% of Germanys explosives).
In 1939, Standard Oil of New Jersey sold I. G. Farben $20,000 worth of high quality aviation fuel. I. G. Farbens assets in the United States were controlled by a holding company called American I. G. Farben Chemical Corp. On the Board of Directors of this corporation was Edsel Ford (President of the Ford Motor Co.), Charles E. Mitchell (President of National City Bank in New York City), Walter C. Teagle (President of Standard Oil of New York), Paul Warburg (Chairman of the Federal Reserve), and Herman Metz (Director of the Warburgs Bank of Manhattan). Several Germans on this Board were found guilty of war crimes at Nuremburg. A U.S. War Department investigation revealed that without Farbens support, Germanys prosecution of the war would have been unthinkable and impossible.
Hitler received support and financing from the aristocracy and elite of Germany, including Gustav Krupp (industrialist), Carl Duisberg (founder of I.G. Farben), Ernst Tengelmann (director of the Ruhr coal mining operation), Dr. Hjalmar Schacht (prominent banker), and Fritz Thyssen (Chairman of the Board of United Steel Works, Germanys largest company). Hitler maintained that the Nazi Party would continue only until the German people had been freed from the threat of Marxism and could reach a decision as to whether the final form of government would be a republic or a monarchy. Thyssen told the Kaiser that Hitler was made Chancellor only as a transitional stage leading to the reintroduction of the German monarchy.
Americas Ambassador to Germany, William Dodd, reported to President Roosevelt in August, 1936:
At the present moment, more than a hundred American corporations have subsidiaries here or cooperative understandings. The du Ponts have their allies in Germany that are aiding in the armament business. Their chief ally is the I. G. Farben Company (the primary supporter of Hitler) ... Standard Oil Company (of New York) sent $2,000,000 here in December, 1933, and has made $500,000 a year helping Germans make Ersatz gas for war purposes; but Standard Oil cannot take any of its earnings out of the country except in goods ... The International Harvester Company President told me their business here rose 33% a year but they could take nothing out. Even our airplane people have secret arrangements with Krupps. General Motors Company and Ford do enormous business here through subsidiaries and take no profits out. I mention these facts because they complicate things and add to war dangers.
Germanys two largest tank producers were Opel, a subsidiary of General Motors (controlled by J. P. Morgan and the du Ponts), and Ford A. G., a subsidiary of the Ford Motor Company. International Telephone and Telegraph (ITT) held a substantial interest in Focke-Wolfe, an airplane manufacturer who produced German fighter aircraft.
Prior to World War II, the Round Table organization, through various means, made sure Hitler wasnt stopped in Austria, the Rhineland, or Sudentenland. His financing was done through the Warburg-controlled Mendelsohn Bank of Amsterdam; and the J. Henry Shroeder Bank (financial agent for the Nazi government), which had branches in Frankfurt, London, and New York.
The Chief Legal Counsel for the Shroeder Bank, was the firm of Sullivan and Cromwell, whose senior partners included CFR members John Foster Dulles (who was the top policy-making director for the International Nickel Co. who helped negotiate an agreement with Farben which helped the Nazis to stockpile nickel for war purposes) and his brother Allen Dulles (who was a Director on the Board of the J. Henry Shroeder Bank, and later became the head of the CIA). They were cousins to the Rockefellers (who later got a controlling interest in Farben).
Hitler indirectly received financing from the Krupps, Kennedys, and the Rothschilds. The liaison between Hitler and Wall Street was Hjalmar Horace Greely Schact, the President of Reichsbank, who aided in the rebuilding of Germany. His father worked in the Berlin office of the Morgan-controlled Equitable Trust Co. of New York. Without a shadow of a doubt, Hitler was controlled by the Illuminati.
The Holocaust had begun with the Jews being stripped of their German citizenship; and from 1939-45, Hitlers death camps claimed the lives of six million Jews, or about 1/3 of the entire Jewish race. The world turned against him, and his actions instigated World War II, which had actually been planned years before.
Another reason for World War II, was to make it possible for Russia, our ally at the time, to gain strength and receive recognition as a world power. Although they were our ally, they were still a Communist nation, with growing designs on world domination. There is an incredible amount of evidence that indicates the willingness of our government to allow the spread of Communism, because of the efforts of Communists who had been employed and were acting on behalf of the Illuminati.
In May, 1943 the Allies had pushed the Germans out of Africa, invading Sicily in June, and in September, pushed their way through Italy, on the way to Southern Germany, their weakest point. However, the U.S. withdrew troops from the invasion force so they could be used in a later invasion of France. In his 1950 book Calculated Risk, Gen. Mark Clark said that this decision was made at high level and for reasons beyond my field and knowledge. Churchill had wanted the attack to bring the Central European and Balkan countries under Allied control, before they were allowed to slip into Red slavery. But instead, under the leadership of Gen. Dwight David Eisenhower, the German advance was spread out, which allowed the Russian forces to advance. Was this an intentional move on the part of the United States to allow the Russians an opportunity to pursue their ulterior motives. It certainly seems so.
In the spring of 1943, a faction within the German Secret Service was prepared to assassinate Hitler, and surrender, on one condition that the Soviets would not be allowed to advance into Central Europe. Roosevelt refused to accept, and postponed a planned European invasion, in order to give the Russians more time to advance, and occupy more land. According to military documents released in 1970, Gen. Eisenhower allowed the Russians to get to Berlin first, before the Americans, which eventually allowed part of the city to fall under Communist control.
Russia was able to come away from 1945 Conference in Yalta with so much, because Roosevelt believed that the Russians were perfectly friendly. They arent trying to gobble up the rest of Europe. These fears that have been expressed by a lot of people here that the Russians are going to try and dominate Europe, I personally dont think there is anything do it ... I have just a hunch that Stalin ... doesnt want anything but security for his country, and I think that if I give him everything I possibly can, and ask nothing in return, he wont try to annex anything and will work for a world of democracy and peace. Russia walked away from the bargaining table with Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, eastern Poland, east and central Europe, N. Korea, the Kuril Islands, and the northern part of Sakhalin.
An American General, Albert C. Wademeyer, was convinced that Russia was the only winner of World War II. He said: Stalin was intent on creating favorable conditions for the realization of Communist aims throughout the Balkans and Western Europe. He emerged as the only winner of the War. We insured the emergence of a more hostile, menacing predatory power than Nazi Germany, one which has enslaved more people than we liberated.
Gen. George S. Patton wanted to retire because he planned on being able to speak his mind about America being soft on Communism. However, before resigning his Commission, he died after an automobile accident forced him to be hospitalized. In 1979, Douglas Bazata, a former Secret Service agent for the Office of Strategic Services (OSS, the predecessor of the CIA) revealed that he was ordered by the Director Wild Bill Donovan to kill Patton in 1944. Although he didnt, he knows who did, and said that Patton was killed with cyanide at the hospital he was taken to after the accident.
Frank Murphy, appointed by Roosevelt to the post of Attorney General in 1938, and later, as a Supreme Court Justice, told Congressman Martin Dies: Were doomed! The United States is doomed! The Communists have control completely ... Theyve got control of Roosevelt and his wife as well. In 1949, upon waiting to be released from a Detroit hospital, he died of a heart attack.
James Forrestal, a partner and President of Dillon, Read and Company, was appointed Secretary of the Navy in 1944, then the Secretary of Defense in 1947, till Truman asked him to resign in 1949. After the War, he became dedicated to destroying Communism, because it seemed as though the United States was constantly yielding to them. Truman believed Forrestal was under a lot of mental stress, and had him admitted to the U.S. Naval Hospital at Bethesda, Maryland.
His personal diaries, consisting of 15 loose-leaf binders, about 3,000 pages, were removed from his office at the Pentagon, and held at the White House. Forrestal had told a friend that he was being followed, and that his phone was tapped. He noticed the beginnings of the Korean War, fifteen months before it actually started.
Once he was in the hospital, he was allowed no visitors. On May 22, 1949, his brother, Henry Forrestal, decided to take his brother for a ride into the country. That same day, James Forrestal, jumped from the 16th floor of the hospital. Found on a third floor projection, the cord of his bathrobe was tied around his neck, and the hospital released a statement that he committed suicide, even though there was not enough evidence to prove that he had.
In 1951, his diaries were published by Viking Press, but they were heavily censored by the White House, the Pentagon, and Walter Millis, of the New York Tribune, so the full story could never be known. His family priest, Monsignor Maurice S. Sheehy said: Many, many times in his letters to me, Jim Forrestal wrote anxiously and fearfully and bitterly of the enormous harm that had been; and was unceasingly being done, by men in high office in the United States government, who he was convinced were Communists or under the influence of Communists, and who he said were shaping the policies of the United States government to aid Soviet Russia and harm the United States.
To this day, Forrestal continues to be labeled as being insane, and the cause of his death remains unknown.
Towards the end of 1949, three men visited the office of Sen. Joseph McCarthy to show him an FBI report detailing the Communist penetration of the State Department and other government spy networks. On February 9, 1950, in a speech before the Ohio County Womens Republican Club of Wheeling, West Virginia, he said: I have in my hand 57 cases of individuals who would appear to be either card-carrying members or certainly loyal to the Communist Party, but who nevertheless are still helping to shape our foreign policy. A Special Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was established to investigate where there were disloyal people employed at the State Department.
However, instead of investigating the accusations, they investigated McCarthy, and a wave of anti-McCarthy sentiment swept the country. On September 23, 1950, McCarthy revealed what would happen because of the Yalta Conference in 1945: Here was signed the death warrant of the young men who were dying today in the hills and valleys of Korea. Here was signed the death warrant of the young men who will die tomorrow in the jungles of Indochina (Vietnam).
McCarthy was accused of smearing the reputation of innocent people, and on July 30, 1954, Sen. Ralph Flanders introduced a resolution condemning him for conduct unbecoming a member. The speech by Flanders was written by the National Committee for an Effective Congress, which had been created by Arthur Goldsmith, who compiled the charges against McCarthy. He was originally charged with 46 counts, but after the hearings, only two remained, and the Senate voted only to censure him, which is a milder punishment than condemning him.
McCarthy died on May 2, 1957 at the Bethesda Naval Hospital of acute hepatic failure. No autopsy was ever performed, leading many to believe that he was killed because he was closer to the truth the most people ever dreamed. Of the 81 security risks that McCarthy said was in the State Department, by November, 1954, they had all been removed, either by dismissal or resignation. Over a year later, the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee revealed that they had a list of 847 security risks in the State Department.
Louis Budenz, a former Communist, said: The destruction of Joe McCarthy leaves the way open to intimidate any person of consequence who moves against the Conspiracy. The Communists made him their chief target because they wanted him a symbol to remind political leaders in America not to harm the Conspiracy or its world conquest designs.
All of this information should proves the contention, that the invisible forces at work within our government used World War II as a means of promoting the Russian goal of conquest, and allowed the spread of Communist propaganda.
THE DECEPTION OF PEARL HARBOR
In the Pacific Theater, the stirrings of World War II actually began years before. China had allowed Japan to drill for oil in several provinces, because Standard Oils price for kerosene was too high. Through contacts in the Chinese government, Standard Oil had been able to keep anyone from drilling, until the Japanese came and developed huge fields. Standard Oil pushed them out, but the Japanese vowed to return, even going as far as saying that they would seize China to recover their oil investments.
When the Japanese invaded China in the 1930s, one of their first acts was to destroy Standard Oil property, because they had been responsible for their ouster.
In 1931, Henry L. Stimson, the Secretary of State (a Rockefeller lawyer and agent), met with President Herbert Hoover, on behalf of the Illuminati, to make a deal. The international bankers promised to end the Depression if Hoover would declare war on Japan, and send in the military to protect Standard Oil property. Even though Hoover accommodated the bankers in many cases, this was one deal that he refused.
So Stimson pitched the idea to Governor Franklin Delano Roosevelt (who has a dozen U. S. Presidents in his family tree), who was indebted to them because of his philanthropic operation at Georgias Warm Springs.
Roosevelt was born at Hyde Park, New York, in 1882. He graduated from Harvard, received a law degree from Columbia Law School, and in 1910, was elected to the New York State Senate (re-elected in 1912). He was appointed Assistant Secretary of the Navy by Wilson in 1913, on orders from Col. House. According to House biographer Arthur D. Howden Smith, Col. House picked Roosevelt as a natural candidate for the Presidency long before any other responsible politician.
In the 1920 Presidential election, Roosevelt was James Coxs running mate, but the Democratic team suffered from the mistakes of the Wilson Administration, and lost miserably to the Harding-Coolidge ticket. Roosevelt later became a two-term governor of New York. After the 1932 Democratic convention in Chicago, where Roosevelt became the Partys nominee, he met with Col. House at his Massachusetts home. House told another biographer, Charles Seymour, in 1938:
I was close to the movement that nominated Roosevelt ... He has given me a free hand in advising (Secretary of State, Cordell) Hull. All the Ambassadors have reported to me frequently.
The Illuminati put all their political power behind Roosevelt to get him elected, and in 1940, Roosevelt appointed Stimson (a CFR member) to the post of Secretary of War, even though he was a Republican. House, who was 75 years old, didnt become Roosevelts alter ego. That role was filled by another Wilson advisor, Bernard Baruch, who became the liaison between Roosevelt and the bankers. FDRs uncle, Frederic Delano, was a member of the Federal Reserve Board, and in 1925, became the Chairman of the League of Nations Committee. In 1934, he was appointed as Chairman of the National Resources Planning Board, and in 1936, became Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond, Virginia.
Roosevelt was a 32nd degree Mason, a Knight Templar, and a member of the Shrine. He is a direct descendent of socialist Clinton B. Roosevelt, the New York assemblyman who wrote The Science of Government Founded in Natural Law, where he revealed a plan for world government. Clinton Roosevelt and Horace Greeley (founder and owner of the New York Tribune and New Yorker magazine) were the pioneers of social engineering research. In the February, 1953 edition of the Empire State Mason, the official publication of the Grand Lodge of New York, the claim was made that if one-world government ever came about, FDR should get much of the credit.
In 1932, Major General Smedley Butler of the U. S. Marine Corps was approached by Grayson Mallet-Provost Murphy (a director of Guaranty Trust), Robert S. Clark (a banker who inherited a fortune from the founder of the Singer Sewing Machine Co.), and John W. Davis (a 1924 Presidential candidate, who was an attorney for J. P. Morgan), with a plan to lead a revolution to overthrow the government and establish a Fascist dictatorship, Butler was to seize the White House with a private army (of 500,000 veterans), hold Franklin Roosevelt prisoner, and get rid of him if he refused to serve as their puppet in a dictatorship they planned to impose and control.
Butler chose to expose the plot, rather than lead it, supposedly because of his patriotism. Or was it because he recognized their true aim, which was for Roosevelt to impose a dictatorship during a national emergency, so the government could take complete control. Butler is on record as having said: War was largely a matter of money. Bankers lend money to foreign countries and when they cannot repay, the President sends Marines to get it.
When the planned revolt didnt materialize, other plans were developed. Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, reported: At the first meeting of the Cabinet after the President took office in 1933, the financier and advisor to Roosevelt, Bernard Baruch, and Baruchs friend, General Hugh Johnson, who was to become the head of the National Recovery Administration, came in with a copy of a book by Gentile, the Italian Fascist theoretician, for each member of the Cabinet, and we all read it with care. Future plans called for the government to be moved towards Fascism, and government control without a revolution.
They decided that the best method was through war, and Jim Farley, Roosevelts Postmaster General, said that during the second Cabinet meeting in 1933: The new President again turned to the possibility of war in Japan. Gen. Johnson wrote: I know of no well informed Washington observer who isnt convinced that, if Mr. Roosevelt is elected (in 1940), he will drag us into war at the first opportunity, and that, if none presents itself, he will make one.
Roosevelt wanted Japan to withdraw, not only from Indo-China, but also China (Manchuria). To enforce his demands, he froze all Japanese assets in this country, and cancelled a 1911 commercial treaty. He had their fuel supplies cut and placed an embargo on 11 raw materials which were necessary for their military. In December, 1939, this was extended to light steel. In England, Winston Churchill, and later the Dutch government, followed suit. Former President Herbert Hoover observed the various political manipulations, and said in August, 1941: The American people should insistently demand that Congress put a stop to step-by-step projection of the United States into undeclared war...
On September 28, 1940, Japan, Germany, and Italy signed the Tripartite Treaty, which declared that if any of the three were attacked, all three had to respond. So if Japan attacked the U.S., and the U.S. would declare war against Japan, they would also be at war with Germany and Italy.
In October, 1940, part of FDRs strategy to push Japan into committing an overt act of war, was to move Americas Pacific fleet out of California, and have it anchored at Pearl Harbor. Admiral James Richardson, the commander of the Pacific Fleet, expressed to Roosevelt his strong opposition to putting the fleet in harms way. He was relieved of his command. Richardson later quoted Roosevelt as saying: Sooner or later the Japanese will commit an overt act against the United States and the nation will be willing to enter the war.
Roosevelt and Churchill had already been working on a plan to get America to enter the war in Europe. After the German ship Bismarck sank the British ship, known as the Hood, Churchill suggested in April, 1941, that an American warship should find the Prinz Eugen (the Bismarcks escort ship) then draw her fire, thus providing the incident for which the United States would be so thankful i.e., bring her into war. While Roosevelt planned for such a provocation in the Atlantic, Hitler told his naval commanders in July, 1941, to avoid confrontation with the United States while his Russian campaign was in progress.
Joseph C. Grew used his post as the U.S. Ambassador to Japan to encourage the Japanese to enter a state of military preparedness. They were shipped steel scrap from the entire 6th Avenue Elevator Railroad of New York. The Institute of Pacific Relations, through a $2 million grant, funded communist spies who were to help induce the Japanese to strike back at the United States.
Since then, it has become common knowledge that the attack was not the surprise it was claimed to be. On January 27, 1941, Grew sent a telegram to the Secretary of State to report the following: The Peruvian minister has informed a member of my staff that he heard from many sources, including a Japanese source, that, in the event of trouble breaking out between the United States and Japan, the Japanese intended to make a surprise attack against Pearl Harbor. (Source: U.S., Department of State, Publication 1983, Peace and War: United States Foreign Policy, 1931-1941, Washington, D.C.: U.S., Government Printing Office, 1943, pp. 617-618)
In August, 1941, Congressman Martin Dies, Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, collected evidence that the Japanese were planning to attack Pearl Harbor. The Committee was in possession of a strategic map, prepared by the Japanese Imperial Military Intelligence Department that clearly indicated their plans to attack Pearl Harbor. Dies was told not to go public with his information. An Army Intelligence officer in the Far East discovered the plan for the Pearl Harbor attack, and prior to the attack, sent three separate messages to Washington detailing the plan.
Soviet agent Richard Sorge told the Russian Government in October, 1941 that the Japanese intend to attack Pearl Harbor in the next 60 days, and received a response from his superiors that the information had been passed onto President Roosevelt. Dusko Popov, a British double agent, received information from Germany about Japans plans, and passed the information onto Washington. It was never acted on.
As early as 1944, Presidential candidate, New York Governor Thomas E. Dewey, said that Roosevelt knew about the attack on Pearl Harbor, before it happened. In documents declassified by the National Security Agency in 1981, America had broken the Blue (diplomatic) and Purple (naval) secret codes of the Japanese, knew all the details of the attack, and the whereabouts of the Japanese fleet. From September, 1941, until the attack itself, all Japanese communications had been intercepted and decoded by American intelligence, and indicated an impending attack on Pearl Harbor.
One transmission, from a fake weather report broadcast on a Japanese short-wave station contained the words higashi no kaze ame, which means east wind, rain, which the Americans already knew was the Japanese code for war with the United States. Top military officials denied that the winds message existed and attempted to destroy all traces of its receipt.
Late in November, 1941, the following order was sent out to all U.S. military commanders: The United States desires that Japan commit the first overt act. According to Secretary of War Stimson, this order came directly from Roosevelt. According to Stimsons diary, 9 people in the war cabinet, all the military people, knew about FDRs plan of provocation.
The State Department knew on November 20th, that a naval force, which included four of the largest Japanese aircraft carriers were heading towards Hawaii, and this information was passed on to Pearl Harbor on November 27th. However, the American base in Hawaii was not given this information. Three days before the attack, Australian Intelligence spotted the Japanese fleet heading for Hawaii. They sent a warning to Washington, but it was dismissed by Roosevelt who said it was a politically motivated rumor circulated by the Republicans.
On December 1, 1941, the head of the Far East Division of U.S. Naval Intelligence wrote in his report to head of the Pacific Fleet: War between the United States and Japan will begin in the nearest future. The Report never made it to the commanders desk, because it had been accidentally detained by his superiors. Early in December, Army Intelligence knew that the diplomats at the Japanese Embassy in Washington had been ordered to destroy all codes, and to return to Japan. Washington also knew that Japan had ordered all of its merchant ships home, because they would be needed to transport soldiers and supplies for the war.
On December 5, Col. Sadtler from U.S. Military Communications transmitted the following telegram to his superiors, based on information he had received: War with Japan will begin immediately; exclude all possibility of a second Port Arthur. This telegram never got to its destination.
In 1932, the U.S. Navy had conducted tests at Pearl Harbor which indicated that it was vulnerable to an attack from sixty miles away without being able to detect it. Admiral J. O. Richardson, Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific fleet, wanted the fleet withdrawn to the west coast of the United States, because they were inadequately manned for war, and because the area was too exposed. It was not done. In January, 1941, Richardson was relieved of his command. It was later revealed that Roosevelt wanted him to create a naval blockade around Japan, to provoke them into a response, so the United States could declare war. He refused to do it, saying it was an act of war.
Besides knowing about the security weaknesses at the base in Pearl Harbor, and having previous knowledge about the impending attack, Roosevelt guaranteed a slaughter by ordering that the planes be grouped in circles, with their propellers facing inward, because he claimed that he wanted to protect them against acts of sabotage. Rear Admiral Robert A. Theobold, USN, Retired, author of The Final Secret of Pearl Harbor, and Col. Curtis B. Dall, the son-in-law of FDR, in an interview with Anthony Hilder for his book Warlords of Washington, admitted that they knew about the Pearl Harbor attack before it occurred.
Theobold, the Commander of all the destroyers at Pearl Harbor, said in his book, that Roosevelt knew about the attack 21 hours before it happened. So the result of this positioning of the aircraft, made it difficult for them to get out of the circle, and up in the air, because they didnt have a reverse gear. Theobold wrote: An incontestable fact in the true history of Pearl Harbor is the repeated withholding from Admiral Kimmel and General Walter C. Short (Navy and Army Command in Pearl Harbor) of supremely important military information ... Theres never been a case in history when a commander was not informed that his country will be at war within a few hours and that his forces will most likely become the first object of attack at sunrise.
Theobold also cited the testimony of Admiral Harold Stark (head of Navy Headquarters in Washington) who did not reveal Japans de facto declaration of war to Admiral Kimmel, and said he was acting on orders from a higher authority, referring to Roosevelt, because Marshall did not outrank Stark. Marshall merely passed on the Roosevelt directive of December 4th, which said that no communications could be sent to Pearl Harbor, unless it was cleared by Marshall. On November 26, 1941, Roosevelt had sent an ultimatum, insisting that the Japanese withdraw all their troops. He refused any negotiations with Prince Kenoye, the Japanese Prime Minister, even though Joseph Grew (CFR member, and Rockefeller agent), the Ambassador to Japan, said that such a meeting would prevent war with the Japanese.
The Japanese response from Tokyo to the Japanese embassy, encrypted in the purple code, was intercepted by the Navy, decoded, and given to Roosevelt on the evening of December 6th. The thirteen-point communiqué revealed, that because of the intense pressure of the economic sanctions, diplomatic relations with the United States were being terminated at 1:00 PM Eastern time on Sunday, December 7th. For all intents and purposes, this was a declaration of war, and upon reading it, Roosevelt said: This means war. It was not passed onto Pearl Harbor command, and it was at that time that the attack began.
While FDR was pushing Japan into drawing first blood, he told the American public in his famous campaign statement of 1940: While I am talking to you mothers and fathers, I give you one more assurance. I have said this before, and I shall say it again and again and again: Your boys are not going to be sent into any foreign wars. Then he said later that he wouldnt send our boys to war unless we were attacked.
Lieutenant Commander Arthur McCollum worked for Naval Intelligence in Washington and was the communications routing officer for FDR. All the intercepted Japanese messages would go to McCollum, who would then route them to Roosevelt. In October, 1940, he wrote a memo which contained the basis for FDRs plan for provoking the Japanese into attacking at Pearl Harbor. It was given to two of Roosevelts closest advisors. The memorandum revealed his sentiments that it was inevitable that Japan and America were going to war, and that Germany was going to be a threat to Americas security. He said that American had to go to war, but he also understood that public opinion was against that.
So public opinion had to be swayed, and Japan had to be provoked into attacking America. He named eight specific suggestions for things that America should do to make Japan more hostile towards us, ultimately pushing them into attacking us. That would rally the country behind the war effort. Because he was born and raised in Japan, he said that he understood the Japanese mentality, and knew how they would react. This included moving the Pacific fleet to Hawaii, and decimating Japans economy with an embargo. McCollum said: If you adopt these policies the Japan will commit an overt act of war. Although there is no proof that FDR actually saw this memo, he ended up implementing all eight of McCollums points.
The Administration discovered that in 1941 a Japanese naval officer was working at the Japanese consulate in Honolulu under an assumed name. They followed him, and began to intercept his messages to Japan, which enabled the Japanese to develop a timetable for the attack, and even bomb plots. They never stopped him, and it enabled the Japanese to prepare themselves for an attack against us.
Fleet Admiral Halsey wrote: Our intelligence data spoke of a likely attack by Japan on the Philippines or the Dutch East Indies. Although Pearl Harbor wasnt excluded from discussion, everything relayed to us pointed to other objects of attack. If we had known that the Japanese were continually collecting detailed information about the exact location and movements of our warships in Pearl Harbor (which is made clear by intercepted reports), we naturally would have concentrated our efforts on preparations to repel an attack on Pearl Harbor.
Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, after meeting with the Roosevelt administration on November 25, 1941, wrote in his diary: The discussion was about how we should maneuver to force the Japanese to fire the first shot, while not exposing ourselves to too great a danger; this will be a difficult task.
Admiral Husband E. Kimmel wrote in his memoirs: It was part of Roosevelts plan that no warning be sent to the Hawaiian Islands. Our leaders in Washington, who deliberately didnt inform our forces in Pearl Harbor, cannot be justified in any way. The Pearl Harbor Command wasnt informed at all about ... the American note of November 26, 1941, delivered to the Japanese ambassador, which practically excluded further negotiations and made war in the Pacific inevitable. The Army and Navy Command in the Hawaiian Islands received not even a hint about intercepted and deciphered Japanese telegrams which were forwarded to concerned parties in Washington on the 6th and 7th of December, 1941.
The Pacific fleet had consisted of nine battleships, three aircraft cruisers, and some smaller ships. The aircraft carriers, and the smaller, more mobile ships, were moved prior to the attack, because Roosevelt knew they would be needed for a war at sea. On November 28th Fleet Admiral William F. Halsey (under Kimmels command) sailed to Wake Island with the carrier Enterprise, three heavy destroyers and nine small destroyers; and on December 5th, the Lexington, three heavy cruisers and five destroyers were sent to Midway, and the Saratoga went to the Pacific Coast. The other battleships were considered dispensable, because they had been produced during and prior to World War I, and were viewed as old and obsolete. They were to be sacrificed.
On December 7, 1941, the Japanese attacked the U.S. fleet at Pearl Harbor, instead of attacking Russia, as they originally intended to do. The sneak attack gave Roosevelt a reason to direct the full force of Americas military might against Japan. The next day, Roosevelt asked Congress to declare war on Japan: We dont like it and we didnt want to get in it but we are in it and were going to fight it with everything weve got. On January 1, 1942, the 25 allied nations who went to war against Germany and Japan, signed a Declaration by the United Nations, which indicated that no one nation would sign a separate armistice, and Gen. Douglas MacArthur was appointed as the United Nations Commander of the South Pacific, becoming the Commander-in-Chief of all armed forces in the Pacific Theater.
The attack on Pearl Harbor resulted in the deaths of 2,341 American soldiers, and 2,233 more were injured or missing. Eighteen ships, including eight battleships, two destroyers, two squadron minesweepers, were sunk or heavily damaged; and 177 planes were destroyed. All of this, just to create an anti-Japanese sentiment in the country, and justify American action against Japan.
General George C. Marshall (Supreme Commander of the U.S. Army), and Admiral Harold R. Stark (Supreme Commander of the U.S. Navy) in Washington, testified that the message about the attack was not forwarded to Kimmel and Short because the Hawaiian base had received so many intercepted Japanese messages that another one would have confused them. In truth, Marshall sat on the information for 15 hours because he didnt want anything to interfere with attack. The message was sent after the attack started. Internal Army and Navy inquiries in 1944 found Kimmel and Short derelict of duty, but the truth was not revealed to the public.
Two weeks before the attack, on November 23rd, Kimmel had sent nearly 100 warships from the Pacific fleet to, what turned out to be, the exact location where Japan planned to launch their attack. Unquestionably, he was looking to prevent the possibility of a sneak attack. When the Administration learned of his actions, he was criticized for complicating the situation.
Eleven days after the attack, the Roberts Commission, headed by Supreme Court Justice Owen Roberts, made scapegoats of Kimmel and Short, who were denied open hearings, publicly ruined, and forced to retire. Short died in 1949, and Kimmel died in 1968.
The most incredible of the eight investigations was a joint House-Senate investigation that echoed the Roberts Commission. Both Marshall and Stark testified that they couldnt remember where they were the night the declaration of war had come in. A close friend of Frank Knox, Secretary of the Navy, later said that Knox, Stark, and Marshall spent most of that night with Roosevelt in the White House, waiting for the bombing to begin, so they could enter the war.
According to historian John Toland, Marshall told his top officers: Gentlemen, this goes to the grave with us.
In 1995, a Department of Defense study concluded that Army and Navy officials in Washington were privy to intercepted Japanese diplomatic communications ... which provided crucial confirmation of the imminence of war.
The full extent of the deception came to the forefront with the publishing of the book Day of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor by Robert B. Stinnett, a retired Oakland Tribune photographer who served in the Pacific during World War II. After retirement, he began his investigation by interviewing former American military communications personnel, and filing Freedom of Information requests with the National Security Agency. For 17 years he gleaned through volumes of previously classified messages which had been intercepted from the Japanese.
Stinnett discovered that on November 25, 1941, Japans Admiral Yamamoto dispatched a radio message to the group of warships that would be used to attack Pearl Harbor. It read, in part: ...the task force, keeping its movements strictly secret and maintaining close guard against submarines and aircraft, shall advance into Hawaiian waters, and upon the very opening of hostilities shall attack the main force of the United States fleet in Hawaii and deal it a mortal blow. From November 17th to 25th, the U.S. Navy intercepted 83 messages that Yamamoto sent to his carriers.
This Pearl Harbor scenario was a repeat of the American battleship Maine, which was sunk by a Spanish mine in the port of Havana in 1898. The rallying cry of Remember the Maine, was used to stir up anti-Spanish hysteria in America to justify us declaring war on Spain. Years later, when the ship was examined, it was established that the hull had been blown out by an explosion from inside the ship.
So what did World War II accomplish for the Illuminati? With the Japanese prepared to surrender in February, 1945, the war was prolonged in order to destroy much of the industrial areas of Japan with a devastating air attack of incendiary atomic bombs. This allowed the ground to be cleared for the Illuminati to rebuild Japan with new industries so they could use cheap labor to flood the American market with cheaply manufactured goods. This would turn the United States into a nation that consumed more than it produced, creating unemployment and financial instability.
As stated previously, on the European front, the War enabled the Russians to gain control of Eastern Europe, promoted Communism, paved the way for the United Nations, and the creation of the nation of Israel.
At a cost of about $400 billion, the War raised our National Debt to $220 billion, and pushed us deeper into the clutches of the Illuminatis international bankers. Because of all the intricate angles involved in this conflict, it would not be an understatement to say that World War II was probably the most costly event in American history. We may have won, but, in the long run, we lost.
Back to Contents
