# Final warning a history of the new world order c5

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/history_nwo/history_nwo05.htm

Final warning
a history of the new world order
chapter five
the council on foreign relations
the British east foreign company
The British East India Company was a British commercial and political organization established in India in the late 1600s, which was known as the Governor and Company of Merchants of London. A forerunner of this group was the London Mercers Company, and earlier than that, the London Staplers. The organization traced their lineage back to the ancient commercial groups involved in trading between the Mediterranean and India. They were closely related to the Levant Company, and the Anglo-Muscovy Company, and spawned the London Company, which was chartered in 1606 by King James I, to establish the Virginia Plantation on a communistic basis, and the Plymouth Colony in 1621.
It was mainly organized for trading, but soon became an agent for British imperialism. Bending to government pressure, they reorganized in 1702. Every year, 24 Directors were elected by the Court of Proprietors (or shareholders, a majority of which were English Masons). They traded in cotton, tea, silk, and salt peter; and were accused of dealing with opium and participating in the slave trade. They virtually monopolized all trade from South India, the Persian Gulf, Southeast Asia and East Asia.
Indian policy was influenced by the company from 1757 to 1773, when their power was broken by the 1773 Regulatory Act, and Pitts India Act of 1784, finally ending their monopoly in 1813. When they ceased to exist in 1873, many of its shareholders were major financiers. The principals of this group perpetuated their elitist goals by establishing the Fabian Society.
In 1606, King James also chartered the Virginia Company, a joint stock corporation made up of a group of London entrepreneurs, charged with establishing Jamestown, in the Chesapeake region of North America known as Virginia. It had the authority to appoint the Council of Virginia, the Governor, and other officials; and also had the responsibility to provide settlers, supplies, and ships for the venture. Although initially favorable, as the mortality rate rose, and the prospect for profit faded, the support for it began to decline. They resorted to lotteries, searching for gold, and silkworm production to increase their chances of making a profit. Although Great Britain controlled the colony through this company, because of the Indian Massacre of 1622, the Charter was revoked in 1624, and Virginia became a Crown colony.
THE FABIAN SOCIETY
On October 24, 1883, in London, a group of 17 wealthy Socialists gathered to discuss a Fellowship of the New Life, which was based on the writings of scholar Thomas Davidson, who hoped to start some sort of monastic order. The group included: George Bernard Shaw (1864-1926), a free-thinking Marxist-atheist writer whose plays contained socialistic references, an ideology he pursued after hearing a speech by American economist Henry George in 1882, and reading Marxs Das Kapital; Graham Wallas, a classical scholar; Sidney James Webb (1859-1947), a civil servant who was the most influential socialist in the country; Edward Pease; Havelock Ellis; Frank Podmore; Annie Besant; John Galsworthy; R. H. Tawney; G. D. H. Cole; Harold Laski; Israel Zangwi11 (1864-1926), a Jewish playwright and novelist, who in 1910, wrote the play The Melting Pot, which was a propaganda play showing how Americans discriminated against Blacks and Jews; and Israel Cohen, a Jewish writer. Some of these people were also members of the Society for Physical Research, an organization dedicated to spiritualism research, which was founded in 1882.
Sidney Webb later founded the London School of Economics in 1895, which became a branch of the University of London. Among its major contributors: the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, and Mrs. Ernest Elmhirst, the widow of J. P. Morgan partner Willard Straight, who founded the socialist magazine New Republic. In 1912, Webb established an independent journal called The New Statesman, and later became a leader in the Labor Party, writing Labor and the Social Order in 1918. He held several political offices, and was a disciple of John Stuart Mill, who served as the Secretary of the British East India Company.
On November 7, 1883, this group met to discuss the establishment of an organization whose ultimate aim shall be the reconstruction of Society in accordance with the highest moral possibilities. However, they split into two factions, and on January 4, 1884, one of the factions established a group known as the Fabian Society. On January 25th, one member, J. G. Stapleton, delivered their first lecture, called Social Conditions in England, With a View to Social Reconstruction or Development. At a time when there were 30,000 Socialist voters, after a few weeks, they only had 20 members.
In April, 1884, their first publication was distributed, a four-page pamphlet called Why Are We Poor? In May, journalist George Bernard Shaw (who would win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1925) joined, and soon became the leading figure of the Fabians. In March, 1885, Sidney Webb, then a clerk from the Colonial Office, joined; and in 1886, so did Graham Wallas. Shaw, Webb, Wallas, and Sidney Olivier became known as the Big Four.
The other faction, known as The Fellowship, continued for 15 years under Davidson, with members such J. Ramsey MacDonald (who later became Prime Minister), Edward Carpenter, and Havelock Ellis.
Their pamphlet Facts for Socialists in 1887, maintained that any person who knew the facts of Socialism, had no other choice but to be one. It was their best selling piece of propaganda.
In 1884, John W. Martin and Rev. W. D. P. Bliss moved to Boston (MA), and established a magazine known as The American Fabian. The move was an unsuccessful effort to bring the Fabians socialistic movement to New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Chicago.
By 1889, 6500 tracts had been distributed, and 31 speakers had delivered 721 lectures. From 1891-92, there had been 3,339 lectures given by 117 Fabian members. Their membership rose to 400 by 1892, 681 in 1894, and 881 in 1899. They had 74 local chapters in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, South Africa, Spain, Denmark, and Germany.
In 1899, The Fabian Essays, the most noted work on socialism, was written by seven influential members of the Society, and edited by Shaw. It became the blueprint for socialistic legislation, and was later reprinted in 1908, 1920, 1931, and 1952.
Fabian leaders were drawn to Herbert George Wells (1866-1946), and his ideas of the New Republic which he described as a sort of outspoken Secret Society ... an informal and open freemasonry, made up of the educated class, whose common goals would lead to the creation of a new World State, thus saving the human race from disaster. Known as the Prophet of Our Time because of writing about many things before they came to be, in books like The Time Machine and War of the Worlds; Wells would give the Fabians the notoriety they needed. Edward Pease, Secretary of the Fabians, wrote to H. G. Wells on January 10, 1902, to say that Webb and his wife Beatrice, were the pioneers of your New Republic.
Sponsored by Wallas and Shaw, Wells joined them in February, 1903. In his first lecture after joining, he said that the World State was a necessity. In his 1905 book, A Modern Utopia, he wrote of the World State taking control and creating a sane order, and how they maintained a central records system in Paris, which they used to keep track of every person on Earth, and aided the state to eliminate the unfit.
Wells was unimpressed with the Fabians, and called for expansion, by raising money, getting new offices, appointing a new staff, and relaxing the guidelines for membership. He wanted to initiate an all-out propaganda campaign, and outlined his views in a paper called The Faults of the Fabians, which dealt with the need for reorganization, and why he wanted to change their name to the British Socialist Society. His views were not shared by the Fabian inner circle, and in September, 1908, he resigned.
Wells maintained his socialistic views, and in 1928, wrote The Open Conspiracy: Blueprints for a World Revolution, which was an elaboration of ideas from his 1926 book The World of William Clissold, which gave a seven-point program for the development of the new human community, and was inspired by the rise of communism. These ideas had been fleshed out in his 1897 short story A Story of the Days to Come, and his 1901 book, Anticipations of the Reaction to Mechanical and Scientific Progress Upon Human Life and Thought.
The character, Clissold, had called his project for world revolution, the open conspiracy, which meant:
the establishment of the economic world-state by the deliberate invitation, explicit discussion, and cooperation of the men most interested in economic organization, men chosen by their work, called to it by a natural disposition and aptitude for it, fully aware of its importance and working with the support of an increasing general understanding ... It is not a project to overthrow existing governments by insurrectionary attacks, but to supersede them by disregard. It does not want to destroy them or alter their forms but to make them negligible by replacing their functions. It will respect them as far as it must. What is useful of them it will use; what is useless it will efface by its stronger reality; it will join issue only with what is plainly antagonistic and actively troublesome.
His plan was to be accomplished by an intelligent minority ... without the support of the crowd and possibly in spite of its dissent...
The Open Conspiracy was Wells perspective of his New Republic, which represented a classless World State that controlled everything. Its establishment would be accomplished by functional men, men of high natural intelligence and professional competence, who performed the creative and managerial work of the world. They were recruited from the men and women whose knowledge, skill, creative gifts made them indispensable to modern society who would gradually have the reins of power into their hands. The revolution was to begin through the formation of small groups of friends, family groups, groups of students and employees or other sorts of people meeting and conversing frequently in the course of normal occupations. They were to enlarge themselves and attempt to establish communications with kindred groups for common ends.
He further elaborated: The Open Conspiracy will appear first, I believe, as a conscious organization of intelligent, and in some cases wealthy men, as a movement having distinct social and political aims, confessedly ignoring most of the existing apparatus of political control, or using it only as an incidental implement in the stages, a mere movement of a number of people in a certain direction, who will presently discover, with a sort of surprise, the common object toward which they are all moving. In all sorts of ways, they will be influencing and controlling the ostensible government.
He also wrote: From the outset, the Open Conspiracy will set its face against militarism, in the sense that they will encourage refusal to serve in any war (as conscientious objectors) ... For the furtherance of its aims, the Open Conspiracy may work in alliance with all sorts of movements and people ... (and) restricted movements will attend only to a portion of its program.
According to Wells, expansion would occur through:
branching and development ... (with) the Open Conspiracy as consisting of a great multitude and variety of overlapping groups, but now all organized for collective political, social and educational as well as propagandist action. They will recognize each other much more clearly than they did at first and they will have acquired a common name ... The character of the Open Conspiracy will now be plainly displayed. It will have become a great world movement as widespread and evident as socialism and communism. It will largely have taken the place of these movements. It will be more, it will be a world-religion. This large loose assimilatory mass of groups and societies will be definitely and obviously attempting to swallow up the entire population of the world and become the new human community.
Two years later, in a published article titled The Banker, Wells even included the international banking houses in Clissolds open conspiracy through a three-point program that would by-pass governments by negotiating agreements stabilizing the currency, adjusting credit availability to control the fluctuation of business, and the withdrawal of credit to governments or armament industries who instigate an arms race.
It is obvious that Wells either based his writings on the actual plans of the Fabian elitists, or used his knowledge of what they had already done in order to formulate a theory of what they were going to do in the future. Since he did quit, were these writings meant to be an exposé or a warning; or was he just stating facts, daring people to try and stop them. We dont know his intent, but what we do know, was that he was incredibly prophetic in his description of their methods. It would indeed be a blueprint for the manner in which the Illuminati would entrench itself in our governmental affairs.
Edward Bernays, former head of CBS-TV, and a friend of H. G. Wells, wrote in his 1928 book, Propaganda:
As civilization becomes more complex, and as the need for invisible government has been increasingly demonstrated, the technical means have been invented and developed by which public opinion may be regimented. With printing press and newspaper, the telephone, telegraph, radio and airplanes, ideas can be spread rapidly, and even instantaneously, across the whole of America.
These tools would be fully utilized to begin the destruction of America.
The secret goal of the Fabian Society was to create a godless, classless, socialistic society that was dedicated to the ultimate victory of Socialism, which really meant Communism. In 1891, they became affiliated with the Second Socialist International (established in 1889), and helped establish a Democratic Socialist state in Great Britain.
The aims of the Fabian Society was developed by Webb, from what Englishman John Ruskin (1819-1900) taught at Oxford University. Ruskin, a teacher at the Working Mens College (founded in 1854 by Christian-Socialist philosopher J. F. D. Maurice), a professor of Fine Arts at Oxford, an artist and writer, based his views on those of Socialist Robert Owen. He advocated a utopian society, and espoused theories developed from the teachings of Plato (428-347 BC), who had studied under Socrates, and became the greatest philosopher in history. Plato established an academy which operated for 800 years, producing many great men, including Aristotle. In his work, The Republic, he outlined his ideal society, which was an aristocratic society ruled by the elite. It included the elimination of marriage and the family, and introduced selective breeding by the government, who would destroy all inferior offspring. In Platos utopia, sexual equality dictated that women would fight alongside the men in times of war.
The Fabians were working towards a new world, by indoctrinating young scholars who would eventually rise to power in various policy-making positions throughout the world; by infiltrating educational institutions, government agencies, and political parties. Their strategy was called the doctrine of inevitability of gradualism, which meant that their goals would be gradually achieved. So gradual, that nobody would notice, or without breach of continuity or abrupt change of the entire social issue. The secret was evolution, not revolution, or what Webb called permeation. Shaw (whose mistress, Florence Farr, was a witch in the Order of the Golden Dawn), revealed that their goal was to be achieved by stealth, intrigue, subversion, and the deception of never calling socialism by its right name.
In fact, thats how they got their name. The name originated from the Roman Consul, General Quintus Fabius Maximus, the Cunctator (Delayer), who through patient, cautious, delaying and elusive tactics, during the early phases of the Second Punic War (218-201 BC), enabled the Roman army to regroup and defeat Hannibals stronger Carthaginian army.
One good example of this concept is television. Ever since Bible reading and prayer have been taken out of schools, the entertainment industry has been slowly and methodically taking bolder steps in the content of their programming. We are seeing things being televised, which would have never been considered thirty and forty years ago. Nudity done in good taste, or done to be culturally or historically accurate, is acceptable. Obscene language is tolerated (especially on the radio), if it is an essential part of the plot. Even though the level of sex and violence is increasing, the rate of complaints to the television networks is decreasing. This shows a gradual acceptance on the part of the public, or what the network bosses call the relaxing of moral standards. This was done to brainwash our children to constantly bombard them with trash that would influence them, and turn them away from God. This is so evident with the concept of music videos, which have been able to combine sex and violence along with a hard driving musical composition that has been shown to ferment rebellion in young people.
In 1905, American Fabians established the Rand School of Economics in New York City. On September 12, 1905, five of the Fabians met at Pecks Restaurant in New Yorks Lower Manhattan: Upton Sinclair (well-known author and socialist), Jack London (well-known fiction writer), Rev. Thomas Wentworth Higginson (a Unitarian minister), J.G. Phelps Stokes, and Clarence Darrow (legendary lawyer). They incorporated the Intercollegiate Socialist Society, for the purpose of promoting an intelligent interest in socialism among college men and women, and established chapters at Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, New York University, and the University of Pennsylvania. Their true purpose was to begin de-Christianizing America. One of its founding members was John Dewey, the father of progressive education, whose philosophy consisted of atheism, socialism and evolution. In 1921, they changed their name to the League for Industrial Democracy, whose purpose was education for a new social order based on production for use and not for profit. They established a network of 125 chapters. Dewey would later serve as its Vice-President, and in 1941, became its President.
The Fabians had broken away from the Liberal Party in the 1890s and contributed to the founding of the Labor Representation Committee, which in 1906, became the Labor Party. Shaw called for wire-pulling the government in order to get Socialist measures passed. In 1918, the Labor Party adopted a program which implemented the ideas of Fabianism.
In 1931, the New Fabian Research Bureau was organized, joining the Fabian Society in 1938 to form a reorganized group. In 1940, the Colonial Bureau of the Fabian Society was established; and in 1941, the Fabian International Bureau was formed, which catered to international issues.
In December, 1942, the Fabians published the Beveridge Report, written by Sir William Beveridge (later made a Lord), who made a long list of promises to Britons, if they would accept his package of social reforms. In 1945, Fabian Socialists took control of the House of Commons, on the strength of the Report, and the Parliamentary Reforms, which had been published eleven years earlier by Sir Ivor Jennings. Within a few years, British industries and services were nationalized and put under government control, which now meant that the Rothschilds were able to control more, because all the banks were forced to use Bank of England notes, instead of their own.
At its peak in 1946, the Fabian Society had 8,400 members in 80 local chapters. Among their members: Bertrand Russell (philologist, mathematician and philosopher), (Pandit) Motilal Nehru (father of Indias first Prime Minister, Jawaharial Nehru, and leader of the Independence movement who founded the Swaraj, or self-rule Party), and Ramsey MacDonald (Prime Minister of England in 1924, 1929-35). Nearly half of all Labor Party representatives of the Parliament in the House of Commons were members, along with most Party leaders.
Today, from their headquarters at 11 Dartmouth Street, in London, they spread their ideas among teachers, civil servants, politicians, union officials, and other influential people. They publish the Fabian Review magazine. They also hold meetings, lectures, conferences, and seminars; do research in political, economic, and social problems; and publish their findings and views in magazines, books and pamphlets. Their concentration has been mainly on reforms to social services and the nationalization of industry.
THE ROUND TABLE
Cecil Rhodes (1853-1902, South African financier, British statesman and industrialist, who wanted to make Africa a British dominion from the Cape to Cairo), with the financial support of Nathaniel Mayer Rothschild (1840-1915) and Alfred Beit, was able to control the diamond mines of South Africa with his DeBeers Consolidated Mines Limited, by buying out the French Diamond Co. and then merging with the Barnato Diamond Mining Company. He eventually controlled the production of diamonds throughout the world. His Consolidated Gold Fields was also a prosperous gold mining operation. He made $5 million annually.
In 1877, while still studying at Oxford (it took him 8 years because of having to run the diamond mines), he wrote the first of seven wills, in which each became a separate and legally binding document. It called for the establishment of a secret society with but one object the furtherance of the British Empire and the bringing of the whole uncivilized world under British rule, for the recovery of the United States, (and) for ... making the Anglo-Saxon race but one Empire. Frank Aydelotte, a founding member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and the American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees, wrote in his book, American Rhodes Scholarships: In his first will Rhodes states his aim still more specifically: The extension of British rule throughout the world ... the foundation of so great a power as to hereafter render wars impossible and promote the interests of humanity.
When he died, his third will, drafted in 1888, called for the establishment of a trust, run by his son-in-law Lord Rosebury, a Rothschild agent, to administer his fortune. His seventh and last will, named Rothschild the administrator of his estate, and established an educational grant known as the Rhodes Scholarships at Oxford University (which was controlled by the Fabians). The Scholarships provided a two-year program for young men, and later, women, from the United States, United Kingdom and Germany, to carry on the Illuminati conspiracy.
Among the Rhodes Scholars: Dean Rusk (CFR, Secretary of State, 1961-69), Walt Whitman Rostow (Special Assistant for National Security Affairs, 1966-69), Sen. James William Fulbright (AR, 1945-74), Harlan Cleveland (Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs in the Kennedy administration, Ambassador to NATO under Presidents Johnson and Nixon), Nicholas Katzenbach (CFR, U.S. Attorney General, 1965-66), Sen. Frank Church (ID.1956-81), Sen. Bill Bradley (NJ, 1979-97), Sen. David Boren (OK, 1979-94, CFR), Sen. Richard D. Lugar (IN, 1976-present), Sen. Larry Pressler (SD, 1979-97, CFR, Phi-Beta-Kappa), Sen. Paul Sarbanes (MD, 1977-present), Rep. Elliot H. Levitas (GA, 1975-85), Gov. Bill Clinton (AR, 1979-81, 1983-92; President, 1993-2001; CFR, Trilateral Commission he didnt graduate), Gov. Richard Celeste (OH, 1983-91), Supreme Court Justice Byron Whizzer White (1962-93, also Phi Beta Kappa), Charles Collingwood (TV commentator), Howard K. Smith (TV commentator), George Jerome Goodman (writer known as Adam Smith), Brig. Gen. Pete Dawkins, Pat Haden (former quarterback of the Los Angeles Rams), Kris Kristofferson (songwriter/singer/actor), Rep. Carl Albert (OH, 1947-77, Speaker of the House from 1971-77), Hedley Donovan (former Editor-in-Chief of Time magazine, later a senior advisor to President Carter), R. James Woolsey (CFR, CIA Director, 1993-95), Rep. John Brademas (IN, 1959-81, later New York University President), Gen. Bernard W. Rogers (Supreme Commander of the NATO forces in Europe, 1979-87), Gen. Wesley Clark (Supreme Commander of the NATO forces in Europe, 1997-2000), Stansfield Turner (CIA Director, 1977-81), Robert Penn Warren (Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and novelist, best known for his book All the Kings Men).
The Rhodes fortune, through the Rhodes Scholarship Fund, has been used to promote the concept of globalism and one-world government. Up to 1953, out of 1,372 American Rhodes Scholars, 431 had positions in teaching and educational administration, 31 were college presidents, 113 had government positions, 70 held positions in the media, and 14 were executives in foundations.
Rhodes began developing his philosophy after hearing a speech by John Ruskin (1819-1900) at Christ Church at Oxford University, which espoused an opinion, which by extension, furthered the teaching found in Platos Republic. Plato called for ...a ruling class with a powerful army to keep it in power and a society completely subordinate to the monolithic authority of the rulers. Rhodes was also greatly influenced by Windom Reades book The Martyrdom of Man, published in 1872, which advocated Darwinism and the tremendous suffering that man must undergo, which was epitomized in the phrase the survival of the fittest. The book said that the inevitable progress of man (was) to perfection. Rhodes incorporated this rationalization into his thinking.
Rhodes talked about starting an organization to preserve and extend the British Empire. He said in 1877: It is our duty to seize every opportunity of acquiring more territory ... more territory simply means more of the Anglo-Saxon race, more of the best, the most human, most honorable race the world possesses ... the absorption of the greater portion of the world under our rule simply means the end of all wars. It was this mentality that fueled his desire to unite the world under one form of government. Using the Jesuits and the Masons as organizational models, Rhodes, Rothschild agent Lord Alfred Milner (1854-1925); other Ruskin associates at Oxford such as Arnold Toynbee, Arthur Glazebrook, Sir George Parkin, Philip Lyttleton Gell, Sir Henry Birchenough; and a similar group at Cambridge, led by social reformer and journalist William T. Stead, which included, Lord Reginald Baliol Brett, Sir John B. Seeley, Lord Albert Grey, and Edmund Garrett; joined together to form a secret group, on February 5, 1891.
There was an Inner Circle, known as the Circle of Initiates, led by Rhodes, and included an Executive Committee with Stead, Brett, and Milner, the chief Rhodes Trustee; and other members like Lord Arthur Balfour (British Foreign Secretary who wrote to Rothschild promising his support for the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine), Lord Lionel Walter Rothschild, Sir Harry Johnston, and Lord Albert Grey. The Outer Circle was known as the Association of Helpers, but was not implemented until 1909-1913, when Milner established it as the Round Table organization. Their goal was to eventually establish a one-world government, which would be controlled by the international banking community, under the cloak of socialism. They saw England, not as a European power, but as an Atlantic power, and wanted to have a federation of the English-speaking world, which would be controlled by them.
In 1897, British and American elitists met in order to come up with ways to accomplish Rhodes plan to consolidate their respective governments, which would pave the way for a one-world government. On July 24, 1902, a secret organization known as the Pilgrim Society was started in London. Six months later, an American branch was established in New York. Funded by the Rhodes Foundation, they were instrumental in taking control of the Democratic Party in the United States.
While he was Governor-General and High Commissioner of South Africa from 1897-1905, Milner (one of the most influential men in the political and financial circles in England) began to recruit young men, mostly from Oxford and Toynbee Hall, to help run his Administration. They became known as Milners Kindergarten. With his backing, they were able to get jobs in influential positions in government and finance, where they became a dominant force in Englands domestic and foreign policy. Between 1909-1913, Milner, Lionel Curtis, Philip H. Kerr (Lord Lothian), and Sir William S. Marris used this group to establish semi-secret discussion and lobbying groups, known as Round Table Groups, in England; the main British dependencies, South Africa, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and India; and the United States. They were all controlled from England, and maintained contact through personal correspondence, frequent trips, and a quarterly journal begun in 1910, called The Round Table. The membership consisted of men who not only had a vast amount of political clout, but some who served in the highest levels of the British government.
Though they are still generally referred to as the Illuminati, from this point on, the Round Table would be the group responsible for perpetuating the conspiracy to establish a one-world government. Members of the Round Table have also been referred to as the Committee of 300, or the Olympians.
Most members had private fortunes, or were known financiers, however, it was the fortunes of Rhodes, Alfred Beit (1853-1906, the German financier from Frankfurt), Sir Abe Bailey (1864-1940), and the Astor Family, that formed the core of their financial support. Since 1925, substantial contributions have come from the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, J. P. Morgan, the Rockefeller and Whitney families, and associates of Lazard Brothers Bank and Morgan, Grenfell and Company (the London affiliate of Morgan).
The Round Table controlled the London Times newspaper, which was owned by the Astor Family, as well as publications in other countries.
Milner led the group until his death in 1925, when the leadership was taken over by Lionel Curtis, and then by Lord Robert H. Brand (brother-in-law of Lady Astor) until he died in 1963, when the leadership was passed to Adam D. Marris, the son of Sir William, who was promoted to succeed Brand as managing director of Lazard Brothers Bank.
Lionel George Curtis (1872-1955), the British High Commissioner to South Africa and Secretary to Sir Alfred Milner, advocated British imperialism, and the establishment of a World State. He believed that men should strive to build the Kingdom of Heaven here upon this earth, and that the leadership in that task must fall first and foremost upon the English-speaking peoples. In 1919, he established a front organization for the Round Table, known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, which, after 1923, was headquartered at Chatham House (and is sometimes referred to as the Chatham House Study Group) at 10 St. James Square in London.
From 1919-1927, there was an Institute of International Affairs started to cover all the Round Table Groups in the British dependencies, and the United States (where it is known as the Council on Foreign Relations), which was a front for J. P. Morgan and Company who controlled a small American Round Table Group. They were funded by Sir Abe Bailey and the Astor Family. Today youll find the Institut des Relations Internationales in Belgium, the Institute for International Affairs in the Netherlands, the Institute for International Affairs in Rome, the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Affairs, the French Institute of International Relations, the Australian Institute of International Affairs, and many others.
In June, 2002, the former royal butler, Paul Burrell, revealed to the Daily Mirror in London, that Queen Elizabeth II told him: There are powers at work in this country about which we have no knowledge.
THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
In the spring of 1918, a group of people met at the Metropolitan Club in New York City to form the Council on Foreign Relations. The group was made up of high-ranking officers of banking, manufacturing, trading, and finance companies, together with many lawyers ... concerned primarily with the effect that the war and the treaty of peace might have on post-war business. The honorary Chairman was Elihu Root, a Wall Street lawyer, former New York Senator, former Secretary of War under McKinley, former Secretary of State under Theodore Roosevelt, member of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1912), and the most recognized Republican of his time. From June, 1918 to April, 1919, they held a series of dinner meetings on a variety of international matters, but soon disbanded.
In the fall of 1917, a group called The Inquiry was assembled by Col. Edward M. House to negotiate solutions for the Paris Peace Conference in Versailles. They worked out of the American Geographical Society doing historical research, and writing position papers. The Inquiry was formed around the inner circle of the Intercollegiate Socialist Society, which was a group of American socialist-oriented intellectuals.
House, President Wilsons most trusted advisor, who was an admirer of Marx, in 1912, anonymously wrote the book Philip Dru: Administrator (published by Fabian B. W. Huebsch), which was a novel that detailed the plans for the takeover of America, by establishing socialism as dreamed by Karl Marx, and the creation of a one-world totalitarian government. This was to be done by electing an American President through deception regarding his real opinions and intentions. The book also discussed the graduated income tax, and tax-free foundations. The novel became fact, and Philip Dru was actually House himself.
On May 30, 1919, Baron Edmond de Rothschild of France hosted a meeting at the Majestic Hotel in Paris, between The Inquiry, which was dominated by J. P. Morgans people, and included members such as historian George Louis Beers (who later became the U.S. representative for the Round Table), Walter Lippman, Frank Aydelotte, Whitney H. Shepardson, Thomas W. Lamont, Jerome D. Greene, Col. Edward House, Dr. James T. Shotwell, Professor Archibald Coolidge, Gen. Tasker H. Bliss (the U.S. Army Chief of Staff), Erwin D. Canham (of the Christian Science Monitor), and Herbert Hoover (who, when he was elected to the Presidency in 1928, chose CFR member Henry L. Stimson to be his Secretary of State); and the Round Table, including members Lord Alfred Milner, Lord Robert Cecil, Lord Eustace Percy, Lionel Curtis, and Harold Temperley; to discuss a merger. They met again on June 5, 1919, and decided to have separate organizations, each cooperating with the other.
On July 17, 1919, House formed the Institute of International Affairs in New York City, and The Inquiry became the American branch of the Round Table. Their secret aims were to coordinate the international activities and outlooks of all the English-speaking world into one ... to work to maintain peace; to help backward, colonial, and underdeveloped areas to advance towards stability, law and order, and prosperity, along the lines somehow similar to those taught at Oxford and the University of London...
The Council on Foreign Relations, and the Institute of International Affairs, both supporters of Wilson, strongly supported the League of Nations. However, the Round Table wanted to weaken the League by eliminating the possibility of collective security in order to strengthen Germany, and isolate England from Europe so an Atlantic power could be established, consisting of England, the British Dominions, and the United States. In 1921, when it became apparent that the United States wasnt going to join the League, the Council on Foreign Relations was incorporated on July 21st, consisting of members from both groups, and others who had participated in the 1919 Paris Peace Talks. The name change was made so that the American branch of the Round Table would appear to be a separate entity, and not connected to the organization in England.
The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) became the American headquarters for the Illuminati. Led by House, who wrote the Charter, they were financed by Paul Warburg, Jacob Schiff, William Averell Harriman, Frank Vanderlip, Bernard Baruch, Nelson Aldrich, J. P. Morgan, Otto Kahn, Albert H. Wiggin, Herbert H. Lehman, and John Rockefeller.
The membership of the CFR was mainly made up from the 150 members of Houses task force which worked on the Peace Treaty. Many were associates of the J. P. Morgan Bank. The first Board consisted of the seven who were on the Merger Committee: Whitney H. Shepardson (Executive Secretary), George W. Wickersham (Chairman, Wall Street lawyer, Attorney General for President Taft), Frank L. Polk (Wall Street banker, Under Secretary of State), Paul Warburg, William R. Shepherd (president of Columbia University), Edwin F. Gay (Secretary-Treasurer, who later became the editor of the New York Evening Post which was owned by CFR member Thomas Lamont, who was a senior partner of J. P. Morgan and a financial advisor to President Wilson), and Stephen P, Duggan (director of the International Education Board); plus nine others: John W. Davis (President, former Ambassador to Great Britain, former Democratic Congressman from West Virginia, who later became chief counsel for J. P. Morgan & Co., Rockefeller Foundation trustee, and also a Democratic candidate for the Presidency in 1924), Elihu Root (Honorary President), Paul D. Cravath (Vice President, NY lawyer), Archibald Cary Coolidge (Harvard historian), Isaiah Bowman (director of the American Geographical Society), Norman H. Davis (NY banker, former Under Secretary of State), John H. Finley (associate editor at the New York Times), David F. Houston (former Secretary of Treasury), and Otto Kahn (NY banker). Other members included: J. P. Morgan, John D. Rockefeller, Edward M. House, Christian Herter, Jacob Schiff, Averell Harriman, Nelson Aldrich, Bernard Baruch, Owen D. Young, Russell C. Leffingwell, John Dulles, Allen Dulles, James T. Shotwell, Professor Charles Seymour, Joseph Chamberlain, Philip Jessup, Philip Moseley, Grayson Kirk, Henry M. Wriston, Arthur H. Dean, Philip D. Reed, John J. McCloy, and Walter Lippman (founder of the Intercollegiate Socialist Society).
Where All Souls College at Oxford University was the base for Round Table operations in England; the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, established by Abraham Flexner of the Carnegie Foundation and Rockefellers General Education Board, was the center of activities for the American branch.
Their membership grew from 97 in 1921, to 210 in 1922. In 1927, they began to receive funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, and later the Carnegie Endowment and Ford Foundation; in addition to the financial support they got from J. P. Morgan and the Wall Street banking interests. By 1936, their membership reached 250, and they already had a lot of influence on five American newspapers: The New York Times, New York Herald Tribune, Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, and the Boston Evening Transcript. This gave them the ability to slant the news in a way which would reflect their views, and thus begin the process of molding America to suit their needs.
In 1937, the CFR came up with the idea for Committees on Foreign Relations, which would be established in various major cities around the country, for the serious discussion of international affairs by leading citizens in widely separated communities. Between 1938 and 1940, Francis P. Miller organized these mini-Councils with funding from the Carnegie Corporation, to better influence thinking across the country. John W. Davis said after World War II that these committees had provided an avenue for extending the Council to every part of the country. These CFR subsidiaries were established in 38 cities: Albuquerque, Atlanta, Billings, Birmingham, Boise, Boston, Casper, Charlottesville, Chicago (the most prominent), Cleveland, Denver, Des Moines, Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, Little Rock, Los Angeles, Louisville, Miami, Nashville, Omaha, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland (ME), Portland (OR), Providence, Rochester, St. Louis, St. Paul-Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, Seattle, Tampa Bay, Tucson, Tulsa, Wichita, and Worcester.
The CFR has always claimed to be a private organization that doesnt formulate any government policy, in fact, the following disclaimer appears on their books: The Council on Foreign Relations is a non-profit institution devoted to the study of the international aspects of American political, economic, and strategic problems. It takes no stand, expressed or implied, on American policy. From the beginning, their goal was to infiltrate the government, and that was done. Actually, they were so successful, that today, the CFR practically controls, and dictates, both domestic and foreign policy.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt had Henry Wallace (Secretary of Agriculture) and Louis Douglas (Director of the Budget Bureau) work with a CFR study group on national self-sufficiency, out of which came the Export-Import Bank and the Trade Agreements Act of 1934.
On September 12, 1939, after the start of World War II, CFR members Hamilton Fish Armstrong (editor of the CFR magazine Foreign Affairs) and Walter H. Mallory (Executive Director), went to the State Department and met with Assistant Secretary of State George S. Messersmith (CFR member), to offer the services of the Council by establishing a CFR study group concerning the war and a plan for peace, which would make recommendations to the State Department. They proposed to do research, and make informal recommendations in areas regarding national security and economics. Secretary of State Cordell Hull, and Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles (CFR member) liked the idea, and the War and Peace Studies Project was initiated with funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, who gave grants totaling $300,000 over a 6 year period.
Under that umbrella, there were 5 study groups, each with 10-15 men and a full-time paid secretary. All together, between 1940 and 1945, there were 100 people involved, with 362 meetings, producing 682 documents, and meets regularly with State Department officials.
War and Peace Studies Project
Norman H. Davis (Chairman)
Waiter H. Mallory (Secretary)
Peace Aims: Hamilton Fish Armstrong
Territorial: Isaiah Bowman (President of Johns Hopkins University, geography expert)
Armaments: Allen W. Dulles (international corporate lawyer), Hanson W. Baldwin (military correspondent for New York Times)
Political: Whitney H. Shepardson (corporate executive who was Houses secretary at the 1919 Versailles Peace Conference)
Economic & Financial: Alvin H. Hansen (professor of political economy at Harvard), Jacob Viner (professor of economics at University of Chicago)
In December, 1941, at the urging of the CFR, the State Department created the 14-member Advisory Committee on Post-War Foreign Policy, in which the CFR was represented by eight of its members (2 more became members later). The core of the group was Cordell Hull, Sumner Welles, Norman H. Davis, Myron C. Taylor (corporate executive), Isaiah Bowman and Leo Pasvolsky (economist), all of whom were CFR members, with the exception of Hull, and were known as the Informal Political Agenda Group which Roosevelt called his post-war advisers.
They controlled the Committee, and were assisted by a research staff financed and controlled by the CFR. In order to formulate a closer liaison between the CFR and the Advisory Committee, the Research Secretaries from the War and Peace Studies were brought into the State Department as consultants to the corresponding subcommittee of the Advisory Committee. The Committee had their last general meeting in May, 1942, and all work from then on occurred at the subcommittee level.
As World War II came to an end, CFR study groups planned the reconstruction of Germany and Japan, the establishment of the United Nations, the initiation of the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank (the UN International Bank for Reconstruction and Development). In December, 1943, the CFR began to outline their proposal for the United Nations, which was presented at the Dumbarton Oaks Conference. Historian Ruth B. Russell wrote in her 1958 book, A History of the United Nations Charter: The Role of the United States, 1940-1945, that the substance of the provisions finally written into the (UN) Charter in many cases reflected conclusions reached at much earlier stages by the United States Government.
In 1945, the CFR moved into their present headquarters, which was largely financed by Rockefeller; and the study groups disbanded, with the men in those groups taking their place in the forefront of national affairs. For instance, Allen Dulles, former President of the CFR, was appointed director of the CIA; and John Foster Dulles, became Eisenhowers Secretary of State. Senator Barry Goldwater would later say: From that day forward the Council on Foreign Relations had placed its members in policy-making positions with the federal government, not limited to the State Department.
In 1945, Sen. Arthur K. Vandenberg, a leading Republican, and a CFR member, traveled around the country to drum up support for the creation of the United Nations. He was also instrumental in getting the Republican-controlled Congress to go along with Trumans CFR-controlled foreign policy.
When the UN Conference met in San Francisco in 1945, there were 47 CFR members in the U.S. delegation, including Alger Hiss (a State Department official and communist spy, who in 1950 was convicted of perjury after denying he had passed secret documents to the Russians, and was sentenced to five years in prison), Harry Dexter White (a communist agent), Owen Lattimore (who was called by the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, a conscious articulate instrument of the Soviet conspiracy), Nelson Rockefeller, John Foster Dulles, Dean Acheson, Harold Stassen, Ralph Bunche, John J. McCloy, Adlai Stevenson, Philip Jessup, John Carter Vincent (identified as a security risk), Edward R. Stettinius (Secretary of State), Leo Pasvolsky, Joseph E. Johnson, Clark M. Eichelberger, and Thomas K. Finletter.
In 1925, Lionel Curtis, established the Institute of Pacific Relations (IPR) in 12 countries, in order to steer America towards Communism. The Round Table finger organization was financed by the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie Corporation, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and the Ford Foundation. The American branch received funding from Standard Oil, Vacuum Oil, Shell Oil, International General Electric, Bank of America, National City Bank, Chase National Bank, International Business Machines (IBM), International Telephone and Telegraph (IT & T), Time Magazine, and J. P. Morgan.
The IPR was led by Professor Owen Lattimore, head of Johns Hopkins University School of Diplomacy, who, during a 1951-52 investigation of the IPR, was identified as a Soviet operative. The Senate found the group to be a vehicle toward Communist objectives. Men from the IPR (who were all communist or pro-communist) were placed in important teaching positions, and dominated the Asian Affairs section of the State Department. After a four-year battle, their tax exempt status was revoked from 1955-1960.
Their publications were used by the armed forces, colleges, and close to 1,300 public school systems. They published a magazine called Amerasia, whose offices had been raided by the FBI, who found 1,700 secret documents from various government agencies, including the Army and Navy, that were either stolen, or given to them by traitors within the State Department. The Senate Internal Subcommittee concluded that the American policy decision which helped establish Communist control in China (by threatening to cut-off aid to Chiang Kai-shek unless he went communist), was made by IPR officials acting on behalf of the Soviet Union. Besides Lattimore, they also names Laughlin Curry (an Administrative Assistant to the President, who was identified as a Soviet agent by J. Edgar Hoover), Alger Hiss, Joseph Barnes, Philip Jessup, and Harry Dexter White, as Communist sympathizers. While he was Assistant Secretary of Treasury, Harry Dexter White provided Russia with the means of printing currency. He became Director of the International Monetary Fund in 1946, but resigned in 1947, when Whittaker Chambers accused him of being pro-communist, which he denied. In November, 1948, after Whites death, Whittaker produced five rolls of microfilmed documents, which included eight pages of U.S. military secrets which had been written by White.
After World War II, the CFR was able to expand its study programs with grants of $1.5 million from the Ford Foundation, $500,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation, and $500,000 from the Carnegie Endowment.
Pro-communist Cyrus Eaton, Sr., a recipient of the Lenin Peace Prize, established the Joint Conferences on Science and World Affairs, also known as the Pugwash Conferences, in 1945, to gather intellectuals from across the world, and to exchange information on ways to push America towards disarmament. The group was financed by the CFR, the Rockefeller Foundation and the Ford Foundation. In 1959, a disarmament proposal developed by the CFR, and discussed at the Conference, became the basis for Kennedys disarmament policy in September, 1961.
In Study No. 7 (Basic Aim of U.S. Foreign Policy), published by the CFR in November, 1959, they revealed their plans for the country: The U.S. must strive to build a new international order ... (which) must be responsive to world aspirations for peace ... (and) for social and economic change...including states labeling themselves as Socialist (and to) gradually increase the authority of the UN. They also advocated secret negotiations with Russia concerning disarmament, and increased foreign aid to China. The foreign policy of the CFR seemed to mirror that of the U.S. Communist Party, only because a change to a socialistic form of government would bring them that much closer to a one-world government.
THE CFR ELECTS NIXON
The career of Richard M. Nixon began in 1946, when, backed by Eastern Establishment money, he came out of obscurity to defeat incumbent Congressman Jerry Voorhis in California, who was anti-Federal Reserve. Voorhis wrote in a pamphlet called Dollars and Sense: ...the representatives of the American people in Congress should speedily proceed to transfer the ownership of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks from the private ownership of the member banks to the ownership of the nation itself.
In 1952, Nixon and Earl Warren, then the Governor of California, helped create an Eisenhower majority within a California delegation that had been leaning towards Robert Taft, an anti-communist. Nixon was rewarded by being selected as the Vice-President, while Warren was named to the Supreme Court.
During the 1960 Republican Convention, Nixon, the Republican nominee, left Chicago and flew to New York, where he secretly met with Nelson Rockefeller. A subsequent news release indicated that Rockefeller had requested the meeting, when in fact Nixon had. The result of the meeting was the Fourteen Points of the Compact of Fifth Avenue, which injected Rockefellers socialistic plans into the Platform of the Republican Party.
After losing to Kennedy, Nixon ran for Governor in California, but lost to Pat Brown in 1962. He left his law practice, and moved to New York, where he worked as a partner in the law firm of John Mitchell, who was Rockefellers personal attorney. He lived in an apartment at 810 Fifth Avenue, a building owned by Rockefeller. He was a CFR member from 1961-65, and it was during this time that Nixon rebuilt his political career.
On November 22, 1963, the citizens of Dallas, Texas, found in their Dallas Morning News an unsigned leaflet titled Wanted for Treason. At the top appeared John F. Kennedys picture, and a list of reasons for the accusation. It was later discovered that it had been drafted at a Pepsi-Cola convention in Dallas, by lawyers of the Rockefeller law firm of Nixon, Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, and Alexander, to be used as an attack on Kennedy during the 1963 Presidential campaign. There is more than one Kennedy Assassination researcher who feels that Nixon had prior knowledge of Kennedys shooting, though no hard evidence has ever come to light.
While it is widely accepted that there was a conspiracy behind Kennedys death, as the volumes of evidence prove, there has never been a single group pinpointed as the mastermind of such a plan. The complexities involved in such a cover-up, certainly point to the Illuminati, because they are the only group in the world, operating behind the scenes, able to influence and control all the elements necessary to pull off something like this. His murder was carried out publicly, because they wanted the political leaders in this country to know who was in control.
Ten days before he was shot in Dallas, it has been reported that President Kennedy said in a speech at Columbia University: The high office of President has been used to foment a plot to destroy the Americans freedom, and before I leave office I must inform the citizen of this plight.
There has been a phenomenal amount of research done on the case of President Kennedys murder, and it almost seems that when he died, the tide changed in this country. The forces behind the assassination of Kennedy were able to change the course of history at will, and with the new-found confidence at their success, the power they gained, literally allowed them to exert complete control over American government.
One fact that linked the Illuminati to the Kennedy conspiracy was the oil connection. Huge oil fields had been discovered off the coast of Vietnam in 1950, and Rockefeller was able to use oil as a ploy to ferment a fear that Vietnam would be lost to Communism, the way Cuba was. However, Kennedy wanted to end American involvement in the war, and in October, 1963, he recalled 1,000 so-called advisers. He planned to bring home all American soldiers by 1965. After Kennedy was eliminated, the U.S. government escalated the war in Vietnam. Billions of dollars was being made from the war, because war is good business. This money source would have ended.
Though the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), an offshoot of the Coordinator of Information, was initiated in 1942 by President Roosevelt, President Harry Truman was the one responsible for its evolution into the Central Intelligence Agency in 1947. He also began to see its growing power. In a column that appeared in the Washington Post on December 21, 1963, he revealed his feelings about the agency: For some time I have been disturbed by the way the CIA has been diverted from its original assignment. It has become an operational and at times a policy-making arm of the government On January 16, 1961, in his Farewell to the Nation, President Eisenhower said: In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex.
The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. Kennedys hatred of the CIA was well-known. After the Bay of Pigs disaster, he fired CIA Director Allen Dulles (who had secretly developed plans to expand the Vietnam War), and said he wanted to splinter the CIA in a thousand pieces and scatter it to the winds. Using a federal statute, Kennedy was going to force J. Edgar Hoover, the aging Director of the FBI, to retire, because he wanted somebody who better represented his New Frontier.
Conservative in his economics, it was his intention to circumvent the Federal Reserve, by returning the authority to coin and regulate money back to the Congress, rather than have it manipulated by the international bankers who print the money and then loan in back to the federal government with interest. On June 4, 1963, he signed Executive Order #11110 which called for the issuance of $4.3 billion in United States Notes through the U.S. Treasury, rather than the Federal Reserve, very similar to what Abraham Lincoln did. The Order also provided for the issuance of silver certificates against any silver bullion, silver, or standard silver dollars in the Treasury not then held for redemption of any outstanding silver certificates, to prescribe the denominations of such silver certificates, and to coin standard silver dollars and subsidiary silver currency for their redemption
This meant that for every ounce of silver in the U.S. Treasurys vault, the government could issue money against it. This resulted in the introduction of more than $4 billion worth of U.S. Notes into circulation, consisting of $2.00 and $5.00 bills; and although they were never issued, $10.00 and $20.00 notes were in the process of being printed when Kennedy was killed. On Monday, November 25, 1963, the day of Kennedys funeral, President Johnson signed an executive order to recall the U.S. Notes that had been issued by Kennedys earlier directive; and five months later, the Series 1958 Silver Certificate was no longer issued, and was subsequently removed from circulation.
And to top matters off, he advocated a strong West Germany; and after winning the showdown with Russia over Cuba, signed a limited nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviets. Needless to say, Kennedys agenda was contrary to the plans for a New World Order. As Jacqueline Kennedy was getting ready to leave Air Force One when it arrived in Washington, still wearing the bloodstained clothing from Dallas, she said: I want them to see what they have done. A very strange comment to make since Oswald was already in custody.
In 1968, Sen. Robert F. Kennedy promised an honorable end to the Vietnam War, and with Martin Luther King, Jr. delivering the Black support, Kennedy most likely would have been elected President. However, that did not fit into the plans of the Illuminati, who wanted to prolong the war, and wanted Nixon to be President, because he represented the instrument that would perpetuate their goals. Again, there is plenty of evidence that points to a conspiracy in the assassinations of Bobby Kennedy, as well as King. The likelihood that the same forces were involved is evident, because again, the course of the nation was altered to fit into their plans.
The Illuminati didnt want Nixon elected in 1960, and to insure that he wasnt, Eisenhower told the country that he couldnt think of a single thing that Nixon had done to help, during the eight years of his Administration. That comment and his haggard appearance during the debates, were the two main things that kept him from being elected. However, in 1968, the responsibility of moving the country closer to socialism, and towards a one-world government, was put upon his shoulders. Former Secretary of the Navy, William Mittendorf, Finance Chairman of Nixons 1968 campaign, said that at 5:30 AM on the morning after Nixons election victory, Nelson Rockefeller and William Rogers went to Nixons room to help select his Cabinet.
He appointed Mitchell, his campaign manager, to be his Attorney General. He appointed Henry Kissinger to be his Secretary of State, even though Kissingers views were the complete opposite of his own. In reality, the Kissinger appointment was urged by Nelson Rockefeller, so the Illuminati could control U.S. foreign policy. At the beginning of each of his terms, Nixon offered the post of Treasury Secretary to David Rockefeller, but he refused it. It was Nixon who chose George Bush, the former Texas Congressman, to be the Chairman of the Republican Party, after Bush lost the Senate race to Democrat Lloyd Bentsen in Texas; and later appointed him to be the Ambassador to the UN, the Ambassador to China, and the Director of the CIA.
In his 1971 State of the Union Address, Nixon said: We in Washington will at last be able to provide government that is truly for the people. I realize that what I am asking, is that not only the Executive Branch, but even the Congress will have to change by giving up some of its power. Three days later, he announced that the country was being divided up into ten federal districts, and in February, 1972, he signed Executive Order #11647, which gave the government the power to accomplish that division. The Ten Regional Councils, a direct extension of the Executive Branch, since then, have been getting control of local, county, and state governmental functions, through federal loans.
Nixon told ABC news correspondent Howard K. Smith, that he was Keynesian in economics. This was a reference to John Maynard Keynes, the English economist and Fabian socialist, who said he was promoting the euthanasia of capitalism. Even though his policies had already indicated it, Nixon was basically saying that he was a Socialist.
Nixon had resigned from the CFR in 1962, when it became an issue in the California gubernatorial primary campaign, but later rejoined. In his book, Six Crises, he wrote: Admitting Red China to the United Nations would be a mockery of the provision of the Charter which limits its membership to peace-loving nations... Yet he wrote in the October, 1967 edition of Foreign Affairs about how he would have a new policy towards Red China. Even after a July 15, 1971 statement on Radio Peking in China that called for the people of the world, (to) unite and defeat the U.S. aggressors and all their running dogs, Nixon accepted an invitation by Premier Chou En Lai to go to China, where the groundwork for trade relations was established.
In the early 1970s, things began to go sour for Nixon. It was the establishment newspapers, the Washington Post and the New York Times who forced a third-rate burglary onto the front pages, and turned Watergate into a major media event, which forced President Nixon to resign from office. As more and more facts came out, it was quite obvious that Watergate was a move by the Illuminati to get rid of an uncooperative President.
Watergate can actually be traced back to 1956, when Nixons brother, Donald, received a secret loan from Howard Hughes. It proved to be embarrassing when it surfaced during the 1960 Presidential election. Nixon vowed revenge against the Democrats, and later discovered that Democratic Party Chairman Lawrence F. OBrien had been secretly retained by Hughes. Nixon sent a memo to Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman, in January, 1971, to get his Special Counsel Charles Colson to get the proof so that they could expose him. It was believed that the second break-in at the Democratic National Committee on June 16-17, 1972, was to retrieve any derogatory information the Democrats had on the Republicans, but it was later revealed that the main goal was to place a bug on the frequently used phone that was in the area of the DNC that housed the offices of R. Spencer Oliver, his secretary, and the Chairman of the State Democratic Governors organization.
In March, 1974, financier Robert Vesco told CBSs Walter Cronkite in an interview, that six months before Watergate, a group had come to him who were going to attempt to get initial indictments of some high officials using this as a launching board to get public opinion in their favor and using the press media to a great degree. The objective was to reverse the outcome of the public election. There had been an article in the Washington Post pertaining to a secret contribution to the Republican Party, and this group of Democrats had went to him, seeking more information to use against Nixon. The three people that Vesco dealt with, were names that everyone would recognize (who) held extremely high posts in past Administrations. Vesco told New York Times writer Neil Cullinan, that Watergate was intentionally created to stop Nixon.
Nixon aide Bruce Herschenson said that the Watergate plot was deliberately sabotaged by a non-elected coalition of power groups. Former CIA agent, James W. McCord, Jr., the security chief for the Committee to Re-Elect the President, has been accused of being a double agent, and used to bring Nixon down by sabotaging the break-in at the Watergate Hotel.
There is evidence to believe that the police had been tipped off on the night of the break-in. Detective Lt. Carl Shoffler, and three other officers, who usually went off duty at midnight, just happened to stay on for the next shift, and was parked just a minute away from the hotel complex. When the security guard, Frank Wills, found the tape on the door, and called the police, it was those officers who came immediately to arrest the White House plumbers (Special Investigations Unit). To top it off, McCord and Shoffler were friends.
McCord had entered the Watergate while it was still open, and put some tape on one of the doors so it wouldnt lock. The tape was put on horizontally, so that it could be seen between the doors. When the plumbers arrived hours later, instead of the doors being open, they were locked, which indicated that the piece of tape had been discovered. They left, since there was no longer any assurance of a successful operation. McCord told them to go back and pick the lock, since the police had not been called. E. Howard Hunt and his Cuban accomplices, did this, and left tape on the door for McCord to get in.
About five minutes later, he joined them. He was supposed to remove the tape from the door, but he didnt; however, he told the other plumbers that he did. He also instructed them to shut-off their walkie-talkies, so the static wouldnt be heard, which means they were inside the office without being able to hear any outside communications taking place. They were caught, when Wills discovered the door taped for a second time.
Afterward, on March 19, 1973, McCord wrote a letter to Judge John J. Sirica, which turned the Watergate affair into a national crisis, by saying that Attorney General John Mitchell was involved, that campaign money was used to pay the plumbers, and that the White House was trying to blame the CIA; when in fact the White House had engineered the entire operation, and Nixon covered it up. This came after Nixon held a press conference to say: There is no involvement by the White House.
In the years since Watergate occurred, one simple fact seems to have emerged, and that is, that Nixon probably had no prior knowledge of the break-in. White House Counsel John Dean III ordered it and deceived the President of the United States into joining a conspiracy to obstruct justice in order to cover up a crime that Nixon had not committed.
If it wouldnt have been for the discovery of the Watergate tapes, Nixon may very well have survived the scandal. Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., an aide to National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger, who later became Nixons Chief of Staff, controlled the vault where the tapes were kept, and secretly made copies of the transcripts available.
Haig became Cyrus Vances (CFR member, Secretary of the Army, later Deputy Secretary of Defense under Robert McNamara, who was also a CFR member) assistant in 1962. After a short tour of duty in Vietnam in 1966, where he was decorated for bravery, he was made a full colonel in 1968. He transferred to West Point to assist Commandant Gen. Andrew Goodpaster (CFR) for two years, after which Goodpaster recommended Haig to Kissinger in 1969, and Haig was put on the National Security Council. In less than a year, he was promoted to general, and in two more years, to major-general.
Although he had served only four months as a battalion commander, and one month as a brigade commander, in 1972 he was given four stars, and nominated for Army Vice Chief of Staff. It was said, that 183 other generals, who were more deserving, were passed over. Ford would later promote him to Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. He resigned in 1979 because he was critical of Carters defense and foreign policies. He became the chief operating officer of United Technologies, only to return to government for 18 months as Reagans Secretary of State. Haig was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
John Dean claimed that Deep Throat, the man who leaked information to Bob Woodward of the Washington Post, was Alexander Haig. Haig denied it. Woodward had claimed that he didnt meet Haig until 1973, however, it has since been revealed that prior to Woodward becoming a reporter, he was a lieutenant in the Navy, and as a special briefing officer, and had contact with Haig at the National Security Office in the White House. It now appears that Haig had a huge role in bringing Nixon down.
So why did the Illuminati turn against Nixon? In addition to the previously mentioned economical changes, he infuriated Kissinger by bombing North Vietnam without consulting anyone. It was even rumored that Nixon was planning to get rid of Kissinger. However, Kissinger was the Illuminatis man in the White House, and his job was to control Nixon, so he was the one running the show.
Some very interesting information surfaced about Henry Kissinger. In 1961, Col. Gen. Michael Goleniewski, of Polish Intelligence (GZI), defected to the United States, bringing with him 5,000 pages of secret documents, 160 microfilms of secret reports, 800 pages of Russian intelligence reports, plus the names of hundreds of Soviet agents in American and Europe. State Department Security Officer, John Norpel, Jr., testified before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee that the information provided by Goleniewski was never proven to be inaccurate, and Goleniewski was honored by the 88th Congress for his efforts.
The documents indicated that after World War II, Russia established an ODRA spy ring in Poland to infiltrate British and American intelligence. The GZI, discovered that one communist agent, code-named Bor, had worked with another agent, Ernst Bosenhard (a clerk at the U.S. Intelligence Headquarters in Oberammergau, Germany), who had been sending secret documents to Moscow. Bosenhard was convicted of espionage in 1951. Bor returned to the United States, and was secretly working with the CIA, while teaching at Harvard University. Bor was identified as Sgt. Henry Alfred Kissinger.
Kissinger became a consultant on security matters during the Administrations of Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson; and served as Nelson Rockefellers chief advisor on foreign affairs. In his book White House Years, he called Rockefeller, the single most influential person in my life. His book, Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy, in 1957, established him as the leading authority on U.S. strategic policy, and he was the one who initiated the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT). There should be little doubt where his allegiances are in regard to his support of one-world government.
This story took on additional meaning, when in 1965, former CIA Chief of Research and Analysis, Herman E. Kimsey, used fingerprint, dental and medical records, handwriting analysis, blood tests, and interviews with childhood friends and relatives to reach a conclusion that Goleniewski was actually Aleksei Romanoff, the son of Nicholas II, who survived the alleged Communist massacre of the Russian Royal family.
The Bolshevik government had claimed, that in the middle of the night, July 16, 1918, they had captured the seven members of the Russian Imperial family, which included the Czar Nicholas, his wife (Alexandra), son (Aleksei), and four daughters (Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia); as well as Dr. Eugene Botkin, the imperial physician, and three servants; and murdered them in the basement of the Ipatiev house in Ekaterinburg (now Sverdlovsk). They took their bodies fourteen miles away to the abandoned Four Brothers Mine, soaked the bodies with gasoline, attempted to burn them, and buried them in the swamp. They were only successful in burning the two youngest ones, Aleksei and Anastasia.
Their personal belongings were thrown down a mine shaft. Fearing that they would be discovered, two days later, the bodies were retrieved. Those remaining were buried in the middle of a dirt road, where in 1979, they were discovered by a local historian and Soviet television personality, who excavated two skulls, analyzed them, and then reburied them. The discovery was finally announced in 1989.
In 1991, the final resting place of the Romanovs was reopened for the last time, and the remains, a box of bones purported to be five of the seven Romanovs, were removed for DNA analysis. In 1995, the tests results were released, which indicated that the remains were that of the Royal family. However, many Russians doubted the claims, and in 1998, when a funeral was finally held, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church ordered the officiating priest not to refer to Romanovs by name, but instead, as the victims of the Revolution. The priest said before the funeral: The truth is I dont know who I am burying.
According to the official report, there were a total of 23 people in the cellar, which measured 17 feet by 14 feet. One of the first investigators on the scene, Captain Malinovsky, of the Officers Commission, concluded: As a result of my work on this case I became convinced that the imperial family was alive. It appeared to me that the Bolsheviks had shot someone in the room in order to simulate the murder of the imperial family Some have suggested that it was only Dr. Botkin and the servants who were shot.
In December, 1970, documents released by the British Government revealed that President Wilson backed a secret mission to Russia that resulted in the rescue of the Czar and his family, who were smuggled out of Russia in the back of trucks, and then taken by ship to Europe where they have lived since 1918. The Report said that, Sir William Wiseman, a partner in the New York banking house of Kuhn, Loeb & Co., received $75,000 from the U.S. government as part of a scheme for a secret mission to rescue the Czar and his family.
Prince Kuli-Mirza, commander of the White Russian forces, believed that the Royal family survived, and showed Gleb Botkin, the son of the Czars doctor, documents which said that the imperial family had first been taken to a monastery in the province of Perm, and later to Denmark. A 1919 book called Rescuing the Czar, by James P. Smyth, who identified himself as an American secret agent, revealed how he led the Romanovs through a secret tunnel to the British Consulate in Ekaterinburg, and from there they were secretly taken to Tibet.
The remains of the two youngest of the Romanov children, Aleksei and Maria, have never officially been located; and through the years, there has been some evidence to suggest that Aleksei and Anastasia may have survived the execution. An entry in the diary of Richard Meinertzhagen, a former British intelligence agent, suggested that one of the Czars daughters escaped; and in the 1993 book The Romanov Conspiracies, British writer, Michael Occleshaw, also claimed that one of the Czars daughters survived.
The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk between Russia and Germany, which was signed on March 3, 1918 to end the hostilities between them, was said to also contain a codicil that guaranteed that the Romanovs would not be harmed. The Russian people were to continue believing that they were dead, so the communists could replace the monarchy. It had been hoped that the Bolshevik government wouldnt survive, so they could return, but it never happened.
On June 11, 1971, the New York Daily Mirror announced the exclusive publication of Reminiscences of Observations by His Imperial Highness Aleksei Nicholaevich Romanoff, Tsarevich and Grand Duke of Russia. The U.S. Government never officially recognized Goleniewski as a Romanov, because history reported that prince had suffered from hemophilia, an incurable genetic disease but Goleniewski didnt.
The Czar left millions in American and European banks, which today is worth billions, and some researchers have made the claim, that the respective governments wanted to keep the Romanovs dead, because without the existence of a surviving heir, the money that had been left behind probably had already been taken by the international bankers. Goleniewski pledged that as the Czars heir, if he would be granted his rightful inheritance, he would use the money to destroy Communism.
Nixon also angered the Illuminati because of his choice of Vice Presidents. After Vice President Spiro Agnew resigned because of income tax evasion charges, Establishment insiders had urged Nixon to appoint Nelson Rockefeller. However, Nixon instead, appointed Gerald Ford to be his Vice President (who, when he became President, did appoint Rockefeller to be his VP). If Rockefeller would have been appointed, he would have become President after Nixon was destroyed. So, Nixon ruined their plans, and may have known that, because after he resigned, he was having problem with a swollen leg, and said that if he would have gone to Bethesda Naval Hospital to get it taken care of, he would have never come out alive.
Later, Lynette Squeaky Fromme would attempt to shoot Ford on September 5, 1975; and on September 22, 1975, Sara Jane Moore would also attempt to shoot Ford. Moore said she was trying to expose the nations phony system of government by elevating Nelson Rockefeller to the Presidency. In a June, 1976, Playboy interview, she said that there was a part that I dont think I can talk about. I just havent figured out a way to talk about it and protect everyone.
Im not saying that anyone helped me plan it. Im not just saying that there are other things which means there are other people, though not in terms of a conspiracy. There are areas Im not willing to talk about for a lot of reasons. The article also said that U.S. District Judge Samuel Conti, added to the air of mystery surrounding her case (and) sealed all the trial evidence. This certainly gives some serious overtones to the attempts on Fords life, and if they were actually intended to elevate Rockefeller to the Presidency.
The bottom line seems to be, that Nixon got cocky. With the Illuminati hoping to have world control by 1976 (it was rescheduled for the mid-eighties), Nixon was hoping to follow in the steps of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt who were virtual dictators, and began acting on his own to bring about change, so he could head the world government. On May 21, 1971, James Reston (CFR) wrote in an article that appeared in the New York Times: Mr. Nixon would obviously like to preside over the creation of a new world order, and believes he sees an opportunity to do so in the last twenty months of his first term. It is likely that the plan to get rid of Nixon was beginning to take shape at that time.
In the summer of 1973, Republicans partial to Nixon had announced to the Washington media that they wanted Nixon to be elected to a third term and had organized a group known as The Committee to Repeal the Twenty-Second Amendment. The movement sort of died within a couple of weeks. Then in October, came the rumor that Nixon may be considering a military coup to stay in office. Gen. Alexander Haig told the Congress during his confirmation hearings for the position of Secretary of State on January, 1981, that some people in Washington were flirting with solutions which would have been extra-Constitutional.
Watergate Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski warned the grand jury, that if they decided to indict Nixon, he may use force to remain in office. In June, 1982, Harold Evans, Watergate grand juror, appearing on a segment of the ABC-TV news show 20/20. said that Jaworski told them, that if they indicted Nixon, he might surround the White House with armed forces.
On October 26, 1973, in a Washington Star article called Has President Nixon Gone Crazy? syndicated columnist Carl Rowan wrote: in the face of a vote to impeach he might try, as commander-in-chief to use military forces to keep himself in power. In another article called The Pardon, in the August, 1983 edition of the Atlantic Monthly, Seymour Hersh, one of Nixons Joint Chiefs of Staff, wrote that in a December 22, 1973 meeting:
He kept on referring to the fact that he may be the last hope, (that) the eastern elite was out to get him. He kept saying, This is our last and best hope. The last chance to resist the fascists (of the left). His words brought me straight up out of my chair. I felt the President, without the words having been said, was trying to sound us out to see if we would support him in some extra-constitutional action ... (Secretary of Defense James) Schlesinger began to investigate what forces could be assembled at his order as a counterweight to the Marines, if Nixon in a crisis chose to subvert the Constitution. The notion that Nixon could at any time resort to extraordinary steps to preserve his presidency was far more widespread in the government than the public perceived...
He felt it would be led by General Robert Cushman, the Marine Representative on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who had been loyal to Nixon ever since he had been his military aide while he was the Vice President under Eisenhower. Schlesinger, in July, 1974, believing the Washington contingent of Marines to be the probable force used in a coup attempt, began developing a strategy to bring in the Armys 82nd Airborne Division from Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
On August 2, 1974, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger admitted that General Haig had informed him that Nixon was considering the idea of surrounding the White House with troops. In an August 27, 1974. article in the Washington Post, called Military Coup Fears Denied, the fact was revealed that: Defense Secretary James Schlesinger requested a tight watch in the military chain of command to ensure that no extraordinary orders went out from the White House during the period of uncertainty (and) that no commanders of any forces should carry out orders which came from the White House, or elsewhere, outside the normal military channels.
Tantamount to a military coup, and contrary to the Constitution, the Joint Chiefs of Staff sent a secret communiqué to all Commanders of the U.S. military forces around the world: Upon receipt of this message you will no longer carry out any orders from the White House. Acknowledge receipt.
Rather than a plot by the Illuminati to militarily take over the government, it seemed to be more of an attempt by Nixon to keep from getting pushed out of office by the powers that actually run this country. In the end, he knew what kind of power he was dealing with, and resigned his office on August 9th, rather than risk what remaining credibility he had, by trying to grab what he could not hold. His resignation also prevented an impeachment trial, which may have allowed secret information to come to light.
THE CFR AND THEIR GOALS
The CFRs 1980s Project, evolved from a Council Study Group on International Order, which had met from 1971-73. They sought to duplicate the success they had achieved with the War & Peace Studies, and their concentration was to be on creating a new political and economic system that would have global emphasis. Miriam Camps, former Vice-Chairperson of the State Departments Policy Planning Council, recorded the groups discussion in a report called The Management of Independence, which called for the kind of international system which we should be seeking to nudge things.
In the fall of 1973, the 1980s Project was initiated, and to accommodate it, the CFR staff was expanded, and additional funds raised, including $1.3 million in grants from the Ford, Lilly, Mellon and Rockefeller Foundations. The Coordinating Committee had 14 men, with a full-time staff; plus 12 groups, each with 20 members; in addition to other experts and advisors who acted as consultants to the project. Some of the reports produced: Reducing Global Inequities, Sharing Global Resources, and Enhancing Global Human Rights.
Stanley Hoffman, a chief participant of the Project, wrote a book in 1978, called Primacy or World Order, which he said was an illegitimate offspring of the Project. Basically, it was a summary of the Projects work, and concluded that the best chance for foreign policy success, was to adopt a world order policy.
When Jimmy Carter was elected to the Presidency in 1976, some of the Projects strongest supporters, such as Cyrus Vance, Michael Blumenthal, Marshall Shulman, and Paul Warnke, went to the White House to serve in the new Administration.
In 1979, the Project was discontinued for being too unrealistic, which meant it was too soon for that kind of talk.
The CFR headquarters and library is located in the five-story Howard Pratt mansion (a gift from Pratts widow, who was an heir to the Standard Oil fortune) at 58 E. 68th Street, in New York City (on the corner of Park Ave. and 68th Street), on the opposite corner of the Soviet Embassy to the United Nations. They are considered a semi-secret organization whose 1966 Annual Report stated that members who do not adhere to its strict secrecy, can be dropped from their membership. On the national level, the Business Advisory Council and the Pilgrim Society are groups which form the inner circle of the CFR, while on the international level, its the Bilderbergers.
James P. Warburg (banker, economist, a member of FDRs brain trust, and son of Paul M. Warburg) of the CFR, told a Senate Foreign Relations Committee on February 17, 1950: We shall have world government whether or not we like it. The only question is whether world government will be achieved by conquest or consent.
The Chicago Tribune printed an editorial on December 9, 1950 which said: The members of the Council are persons of much more than average influence in the community. They have used the prestige that their wealth, their social position, and their education have given them to lead their country towards bankruptcy and military debacle. They should look at their hands. There is blood on them the dried blood of the last war and the fresh blood of the present one.
They have only been investigated once, and that was in 1954, by the Special House Committee to Investigate Tax-Exempt Foundations (the Reece Committee), who said that the CFR was in essence an agency of the United States Government. The Committee discovered that their directives were aimed overwhelmingly at promoting the globalistic concept.
A July, 1958 Harpers magazine article said: The most powerful clique in these (CFR) groups have one objective in common: they want to bring about the surrender of the sovereignty and the national independence of the U.S. They want to end national boundaries and racial and ethnic loyalties supposedly in increase business and ensure world peace. What they strive for would inevitably lead to dictatorship and loss of freedoms by the people. The CFR was founded for the purpose of promoting disarmament and submergence of U.S. sovereignty and national independence into an all-powerful one-world government.
On September 1, 1961, The Christian Science Monitor printed the following statement: The directors of the CFR make up a sort of Presidium for that part of the Establishment that guides our destiny as a nation.
On December 23, 1961, columnist Edith Kermit Roosevelt (granddaughter of President Theodore Roosevelt) wrote in the Indianapolis News that CFR policies favor ... gradual surrender of United States sovereignty to the United Nations. Researcher Dan Smoot, a former FBI employee, said their goal was to create a one-world socialist system and make the United States an official part of it.
Rep. John R. Rarick of Louisiana said in 1971:
The CFR, dedicated to one-world government, financed by a number of the largest tax-exempt foundations, and wielding such power and influence over our lives in the areas of finance, business, labor, military, education and mass communication-media, should be familiar to every American concerned with good government and with preserving and defending the U.S. Constitution and our free-enterprise system. Yet, the nations right-to-know machinery, the news media, usually so aggressive in exposures to inform our people, remain conspicuously silent when it comes to the CFR, its members and their activities.
The CFR is the establishment. Not only does it have influence and power in key decision-making positions at the highest levels of government to apply pressure from above, but it also finances and uses individuals and groups to bring pressure from below, to justify the high level decisions for converting the U.S. from a sovereign Constitutional Republic into a servile member state of a one-world dictatorship.
Phyllis Schlafly and Rear Admiral Chester Ward (former Judge Advocate General of the Navy from 1956-60), who was a member of the CFR for 16 years, wrote in their 1975 book Kissinger on the Couch that the CFRs purpose of promoting disarmament and submergence of U.S. sovereignty and national independence into an all-powerful one-world government is the only objective revealed to about 95 percent of 1,551 members (1975 figures). There are two other ulterior purposes that CFR influence is being used to promote; but it is improbable that they are known to more than 75 members, or that these purposes ever have even been identified in writing.
The book went on to say that the most powerful clique in these elitist groups have one objective in common they want to bring about the surrender of the sovereignty and the national independence of the United States. Wards indictment of the group revealed their methods: Once the ruling members of the CFR have decided that the U.S. Government should adopt a particular policy, the very substantial research facilities of CFR are put to work to develop arguments, intellectual and emotional, to support the new policy, and to confound and discredit, intellectually and politically, any opposition.
The published accounts of CFR activities greatly understate their power and influence on national and foreign policy. They have been called the invisible government or a front for the intellectual leaders who hope to control the world through the Fabian technique of gradualism. Besides their involvement in the government, they hold key positions in all branches of the media, including the control or ownership of major newspapers, magazines, publishing companies, television, and radio stations.
The New York Times wrote: The Councils membership includes some of the most influential men in government, business, education and the press (and) for nearly half a century has made substantial contributions to the basic concepts of American foreign policy. Newsweek called the Councils leadership the foreign policy establishment of the U.S. Well-known political observer and writer Theodore White said: The Council counts among its members probably more important names in American life than any other private group in the country. In 1971, J. Anthony Lukas wrote in the New York Times Magazine: If you want to make foreign policy, theres no better fraternity to belong to than the Council.
From 1928-72, nine out of twelve Republican Presidential nominees were CFR members. From 1952-72, CFR members were elected four out of six times. During three separate campaigns, both the Republican and Democratic nominee were, or had been a member. Since World War II, practically every Presidential candidate, with the exception of Johnson, Goldwater, and Reagan, has been members.
The position of Supreme Allied Commander has usually been held by CFR members, like Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Gen. Matthew B. Ridgeway, Gen. Alfred M. Groenther, Gen. Lauris Norstad, Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, and Alexander M. Haig, Jr. Most of the superintendents at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point have been members.
In Sen. Barry Goldwaters 1979 memoir, With No Apologies, he wrote: When a new President comes on board, there is a great turnover in personnel but no change in policy. Thats because CFR members have held almost every key position, in every Administration, from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Bill Clinton. During that period, every Secretary of State, with the exception of Cordell Hull, James F. Byrnes, and William Rogers, has been members. Every Secretary of Defense, from the Truman Administration, up to the Clinton Administration, with the exception of Melvin Laird, has been members. Since 1920, most of the Treasury Secretaries have been members; and since the Eisenhower Administration, nearly all of the National Security Advisors have been members.
Curtis Dall wrote in his book, FDR: My Exploited Father-in-Law: For a long time I felt that FDR had developed many thoughts and ideas that were his own to benefit this country, the USA. But, he didnt. Most of his thoughts, his political ammunition as it were, were carefully manufactured for him in advance by the CFR-One World money group.
CFR Members
Harry S. Truman Administration
Dean Acheson (Secretary of State), Robert Lovett (Secretary of State, and later Secretary of Defense), W. Averill Harriman (Marshall Plan Administrator), John McCloy (High Commissioner to Germany) , George Kennan (State Department advisor) , Charles Bohlen (State Department advisor).
Dwight Eisenhower Administration
When CFR member Dwight Eisenhower became President, he appointed six CFR members to his Cabinet, and twelve to positions of Under Secretary:
John Foster Dulles (Secretary of State, an in-law to the Rockefellers who was a founding member of the CFR, past Chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), Robert B. Anderson (Secretary of the Treasury), Lewis Straus (Secretary of Commerce), Allen Dulles (head of the 0SS operation in Switzerland during World War II who became Director of the CIA, and President of the CFR).
John F. Kennedy Administration
When CFR member John F. Kennedy became President, 63 of the 82 names on his list of prospective State Department officials, were CFR members. John Kenneth Galbraith said: Those of us who had worked for the Kennedy election were tolerated in the government for that reason and had a say, but foreign policy was still with the Council on Foreign Relations people. Among the more notable members in his Administration:
Dean Rusk (Secretary of State), C. Douglas Dillon (Secretary of the Treasury), Adlai Stevenson (UN Ambassador), John McCone (CIA Director), W. Averell Harriman (Ambassador-at-Large), John J. McCloy (Disarmament Administrator), Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer (Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), John Kenneth Galbraith (Ambassador to India), Edward R. Murrow (head of the U.S. Information Agency), Arthur H. Dean (head of the U.S. Delegation to the Geneva Disarmament Conference), Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. (Special White House Assistant and noted historian), Thomas K. Finletter (Ambassador to NATO and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development), George Ball (Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs), McGeorge Bundy (Special Assistant for National Security, who went on to head the Ford Foundation), Robert McNamara (Secretary of Defense), Robert F. Kennedy (Attorney General), Paul H. Nitze (Assistant Secretary of Defense), Charles E. Bohlen (Assistant Secretary of State), Walt W. Restow (Deputy National Security Advisor), Roswell Gilpatrick (Deputy Secretary of Defense), Henry Fowler (Under Secretary of State), Jerome Wiesner (Special Assistant to the President), Angier Duke (Chief of Protocol).
Lyndon B. Johnson Administration
Roswell Gilpatrick (Deputy Secretary of Defense), Walt W. Rostow (Special Assistant to the President), Hubert H. Humphrey (Vice-President), Dean Rusk (Secretary of State), Henry Fowler (Secretary of the Treasury), George Ball (Under Secretary of State), Robert McNamara (Secretary of Defense), Paul H. Nitze (Deputy Secretary of Defense), Alexander B. Trowbridge (Secretary of Commerce), William McChesney Martin (Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board), and Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor (Chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Board).
Richard M. Nixon Administration
Nixon appointed over 100 CFR members to serve in his Administration:
George Ball (Foreign Policy Consultant to the State Department), Dr. Harold Brown (General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the senior member of the U.S. delegation for talks with Russia on SALT), Dr. Arthur Burns (Chairman of the Federal Reserve), C. Fred Bergsten (Operations Staff of the National Security Council), C. Douglas Dillon (General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Richard N. Cooper (Operations Staff of the National Security Council), Gen. Andrew I. Goodpaster (Supreme Allied Commander in Europe), John W. Gardner (Board of Directors, National Center for Volunteer Action), Elliot L. Richardson (Under Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, Attorney General; and Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare), David Rockefeller (Task Force on International Development), Nelson A. Rockefeller (head of the Presidential Mission to Ascertain the Views of Leaders in the Latin America Countries), Rodman Rockefeller (Member, Advisory Council for Minority Enterprise), Dean Rusk (General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Gerald Smith (Director, Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Cyrus Vance (General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Richard Gardner (member of the Commission on International Trade and Investment Policy), Sen. Jacob K. Javits (Representative to the 24th Session of the General Assembly of the UN), Henry A. Kissinger (Secretary of State, Harvard professor who was Rockefellers personal advisor on foreign affairs, openly advocating a New World Order), Henry Cabot Lodge (Chief Negotiator of the Paris Peace Talks), Douglas MacArthur II (Ambassador to Iran), John J. McCloy (Chairman of the General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency), Paul H. Nitze (senior member of the U.S. delegation for the talks with Russia on SALT), John Hay Whitney (member of the Board of Directors for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting), George P. Shultz (Secretary of the Treasury), William Simon (Secretary of Treasury), Stanley R. Resor (Secretary of the Army), William E. Colby (Director of the CIA), Peter G. Peterson (Secretary of Commerce), James Lynn (Housing Secretary), Paul McCracken (chief economic aide), Charles Yost (UN Ambassador), Harlan Cleveland (NATO Ambassador), Jacob Beam (USSR Ambassador), David Kennedy (Secretary of Treasury).
Gerald R. Ford Administration
When CFR member Gerald Ford became President, among some of the other CFR members:
William Simon (Secretary of Treasury), Nelson Rockefeller (Vice-President).
Jimmy Carter Administration
President Carter (who became a member in 1983) appointed over 60 CFR members to serve in his Administration:
Walter Mondale (Vice-President), Zbigniew Brzeznski (National Security Advisor), Cyrus R. Vance (Secretary of State), W. Michael Blumenthal (Secretary of Treasury), Harold Brown (Secretary of Defense), Stansfield Turner (Director of the CIA), Gen. David Jones (Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff).
Ronald Reagan Administration
There were 75 CFR and Trilateral Commission members under President Reagan:
Alexander Haig (Secretary of State), George Shultz (Secretary of State), Donald Regan (Secretary of Treasury), William Casey (CIA Director), Malcolm Baldridge (Secretary of Commerce), Jeanne J. Kirkpatrick (UN Ambassador), Frank C. Carlucci (Deputy Secretary of Defense), William E. Brock (Special Trade Representative).
George H. W. Bush Administration
During his 1964 campaign for the U.S. Senate in Texas, George Bush said: If Red China should be admitted to the UN, then the UN is hopeless and we should withdraw. In 1970, as Ambassador to the UN, he pushed for Red China to be seated in the General Assembly. When Bush was elected, the CFR member became the first President to publicly mention the New World Order, and had in his Administration, nearly 350 CFR and Trilateral Commission members:
Brent Scowcroft (National Security Advisor), Richard B. Cheney (Secretary of Defense), Colin L. Powell (Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), William Webster (Director of the CIA), Richard Thornburgh (Attorney General), Nicholas F. Brady (Secretary of Treasury), Lawrence S. Eagleburger (Deputy Secretary of State), Horace G. Dawson, Jr. (U.S. Information Agency and Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity and Civil Rights), Alan Greenspan (Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board).
Bill Clinton Administration
When CFR member Bill Clinton was elected, Newsweek magazine would later refer to him as the New Age President. In October, 1993, Richard Harwood, a Washington Post writer, in describing the Clinton Administration, said its CFR membership was the nearest thing we have to a ruling establishment in the United States.
Al Gore (Vice-President) , Donna E. Shalala (Secretary of Health and Human Services), Laura D. Tyson (Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors), Alice M. Rivlin (Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget), Madeleine K. Albright (U.S. Ambassador to the UN), Warren Christopher (Secretary of State), Clifton R. Wharton, Jr. (Deputy Secretary of State and former Chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation), Les Aspin (Secretary of Defense), Colin Powell (Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff), W. Anthony Lake (National Security Advisor), George Stephanopoulos (Senior Advisor), Samuel R. Berger (Deputy National Security Advisor), R. James Woolsey (CIA Director), William J. Crowe, Jr. (Chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board), Lloyd Bentsen (former member, Secretary of Treasury), Roger C. Altman (Deputy Secretary of Treasury), Henry G. Cisneros (Secretary of Housing and Urban Development), Bruce Babbit (Secretary of the Interior), Peter Tarnoff (Under Secretary of State for International Security of Affairs), Winston Lord (Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs), Strobe Talbott (Aid Coordinator to the Commonwealth of Independent States), Alan Greenspan (Chairman of the Federal Reserve System), Walter Mondale (U.S. Ambassador to Japan), Ronald H. Brown (Secretary of Commerce), Franklin D. Raines (Economics and International Trade).
George W. Bush Administration
Richard Cheney (Vice President, former Secretary of Defense under President Bush), Colin Powell (Secretary of State, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Bush and Clinton), Condoleeza Rice (National Security Advisor, former member of President Bushs National Security Council), Robert B. Zoellick (U.S. Trade Representative, former Under Secretary of State in the Bush administration), Elaine Chao (Secretary of Labor), Brent Scowcroft (Chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, former National Security Advisor to President Bush), Richard Haass (Director of Policy Planning at the State Department and Ambassador at Large), Henry Kissinger (Pentagon Defense Policy Board, former Secretary of State under Presidents Nixon and Ford), Robert Blackwill (U.S. Ambassador to India, former member of President Bushs National Security Council), Stephen Friedman (Sr. White House Economic Advisor), Stephen Hadley (Deputy National Security Advisor, former Assistant Secretary of Defense under Cheney), Richard Perle (Chairman of Pentagon Defense Policy Board, former Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Reagan administration), Paul Wolfowitz (Assistant Secretary of Defense, former Assistant Secretary of State in the Reagan administration and former Under Secretary of Defense in the Bush administration), Dov S. Zakheim (Under Secretary of Defense, Comptroller, former Under Secretary of Defense in the Reagan administration), I. Lewis Libby (Chief of Staff for the Vice President, former Deputy Under Secretary of Defense).
The Christian Science Monitor said that almost half of the Council members have been invited to assume official government positions or to act as consultants at one time or another.
The Council accepts only American citizens, and has a membership of about 3,600, including influential bankers, corporate officers, and leading government officials who have been significantly affecting domestic and foreign policy for the past 30 years. Every member had been handpicked by David Rockefeller, who heads the inner circle of the CFR. It is believed that the hierarchy of their inner circle includes descendants of the original Illuminati conspirators, who have Americanized their original family names in order to conceal that fact.
Some of the CFR directors have been: Walter Lippman (1932-37), Adlai Stevenson (1958-62), Cyrus Vance (1968-76, 1981-87), Zbigniew Brzezinski (1972-77), Robert O. Anderson (1974-80), Paul Volcker (1975-79), Theodore M. Hesburgh (1926-85), Lane Kirkland (1976-86), George H. W. Bush (1977-79), Henry Kissinger (1977-81), David Rockefeller (1949-85), George Shultz (1980-88), Alan Greenspan (1982-88), Brent Scowcroft (1983-89), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick (1985- ), Warren M. Christopher (1982-91) and Richard Cheney (1987-89).
Among the members of the media who have been in the CFR: William Paley (CBS), Dan Rather (CBS), Harry Reasoner (CBS), Roone Arledge (ABC), Bill Moyers (NBC), Tom Brokaw (NBC), John Chancellor (NBC), Marvin Kalb (CBS), Irving Levine, David Brinkley (ABC), John Scali, Barbara Walters (ABC), William Buckley (PBS), George Stephanopoulos, Daniel Schorr (CBS), Robert McNeil (PBS), Jim Lehrer (PBS), Diane Sawyer, and Hodding Carter III.
Some of the College Presidents that have been CFR members: Michael I. Sovern (Columbia University), Frank H. T. Rhodes (Cornell University), John Brademus (New York University), Alice S. Ilchman (Sarah Lawrence College), Theodore M. Hesburgh (Notre Dame University), Donald Kennedy (Stanford University), Benno J. Schmidt, Jr. (Yale University), Hanna Holborn Gray (University of Chicago), Stephen Muller (Johns Hopkins University), Howard R. Swearer (Brown University), Donna E. Shalala (University of Wisconsin), and John P. Wilson (Washington and Lee University).
Some of the major newspapers, news services and media groups that have been controlled or influenced by the CFR: New York Times (Sulzbergers, James Reston, Max Frankel, Harrison Salisbury), Washington Post (Frederick S. Beebe, Katherine Graham, Osborne Elliott), Wall Street Journal, Boston Globe, Baltimore Sun, Chicago Sun-Times, L.A. Times Syndicate, Houston Post, Minneapolis Star-Tribune, Arkansas Gazette, Des Moines Register & Tribune, Louisville Courier, Associated Press, United Press International, Reuters News Service, and Gannett Co. (publisher of USA Today, and 90 other daily papers, plus 40 weeklies; and also owns 15 radio stations, 8 TV stations, and 40,000 billboards).
In 1896, Alfred Ochs bought the New York Times, with the financial backing of J. P. Morgan (CFR), August Belmont (Rothschild agent), and Jacob Schiff (Kuhn, Loeb). It later passed to the control of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who was also a CFR member. Eugene Meyer, a CFR member, bought the Washington Post in 1933. Today it is run by his daughter, Katherine Graham, also a member of the CFR.
Some of the magazines that have been controlled or influenced by the CFR: Time (founded by CFR member Henry Luce, who also published Fortune, Life, Money, People, Entertainment Weekly, and Sports Illustrated; and Hedley Donovan), Newsweek (owned by the Washington Post, W. Averell Harriman, Roland Harriman, and Lewis W. Douglas), Business Week, U.S. News & World Report, Saturday Review, National Review, Readers Digest, Atlantic Monthly, McCalls, Forbes, Look, and Harpers Magazine.
Some of the publishers that have been controlled or influenced by the CFR: Macmillan, Random House, Simon & Schuster, McGraw-Hill, Harper Brothers, Harper & Row, Yale University Press, Little Brown & Co., Viking Press, and Cowles Publishing.
G. Gordon Liddy, former Nixon staffer, who later became a talk show pundit, laughed off the idea of a New World Order, saying that there are so many different organizations working toward their own goals of a one-world government, that they cancel each other out. Not the case. You have seen that their tentacles are very far reaching, as far as the government and the media. However, as outlined below, you will see that the CFR has a heavy cross membership with many groups; as well as a cross membership among the directorship of many corporate boards, and this is a good indication that their efforts are concerted.
Some of the organizations and think-tanks that have been controlled or influenced by the CFR: Brookings Institute, RAND Corporation, American Assembly, Foreign Policy Association (a more open sister to the CFR, which CFR member Raymond Fosdick, Under Secretary of General to the League of Nations, helped create), World Affairs Council, Business Advisory Council, Committee for Economic Development, National Foreign Trade Council, National Bureau of Economic Research, National Association of Manufacturers, National Industrial Conference Board, Americans for Democratic Action, Hudson Institute, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Institute for Defense Analysis, World Peace Foundation, United Nations Association, National Planning Association, Center for Inter-American Relations, Free Europe Committee, Atlantic Council of the U.S. (founded in 1961 by CFR member Christian Herter), Council for Latin America, National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, African-American Institute, and the Middle East Institute.
Some of the many companies that have been controlled or influenced by the CFR: Morgan, Stanley; Kuhn, Loeb; Lehman Brothers; Bank of America; Chase Manhattan Bank; J. P. Morgan and Co.; First National City Bank; Brown Brothers, Harriman and Co.; Bank of New York; CitiBank/Citicorp; Chemical Bank; Bankers Trust of New York; Manufacturers Hanover; Morgan Guaranty; Merrill Lynch; Equitable Life; New York Life; Metropolitan Life; Mutual of New York; Prudential Insurance; Phillips Petroleum; Chevron; Exxon; Mobil; Atlantic-Richfield (Arco); Texaco; IBM; Xerox Corporation; AT & T; General Electric; ITT Corporation; Dow Chemical; E. I. du Pont; BMW of North America; Mitsubishi; Toyota Motor Corporation; General Motors; Ford Motor Company; Chrysler; U.S. Steel; Proctor & Gamble; Johnson & Johnson; Estee Lauder; Avon Products; R. J. R. Nabisco; R. H. Macy; Federated Department Stores; Gimbel Brothers; J. C. Penney Company; Sears, Roebuck & Company; May Department Stores; Allied Stores; American Express; PepsiCo; Coca Cola; Pfizer; Bristol-Myers Squibb; Hilton Hotels; and American Airlines.
In September, 1922, when the CFR began publishing its quarterly magazine, Foreign Affairs, the editorial stated that its purpose was to guide American opinion. By 1924, it had established itself as the most authoritative American review dealing with international relations. This highly influential magazine has been the leading publication of its kind, and has a circulation of over 75,000. Reading this publication can be highly informative as to the views of its members. For instance, the Spring, 1991 issue, called for a UN standing army, consisting of military personnel from all the member nations, directly under the control of the UN Security Council.
A major source of their funding (since 1953), stems from providing a corporate service to over 100 companies for a minimum fee of $1,000, that furnishes subscribers with inside information on what is going on politically and financially, both internationally and domestically; by providing free consultation, use of their extensive library, a subscription to Foreign Affairs, and by holding seminars on reports and research done for the Executive branch. They also publish books and pamphlets, and have regular dinner meetings to allow speakers and members to present positions, award study fellowships to scholars, promote regional meetings and stage round-table discussion meetings.
Being that the Council on Foreign Relations was able to infiltrate our government, it is no wonder that our country has been traveling on the course that it has. The moral, educational and financial decline of this nation has been no accident. It has been due to a carefully contrived plot on behalf of these conspirators, who will be satisfied with nothing less than a one-world government. And it is coming to that. As each year goes by, the momentum is picking up, and it is becoming increasingly clear, what road our government is taking. The proponents of one-world government are becoming less secretive, as evidenced by George Bushs talk of a New World Order. The reason for that is that they feel it is too late for their plans to be stopped. They have become so entrenched in our government, our financial structure, and our commerce, that they probably do control this country, if not the world. In light of this, it seems that it will be only a matter of time before their plans are fully implemented.
THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION
The Brookings Institution was established by St. Louis tycoon and philanthropist, Robert Somers Brookings (1850-1932). At the age of 21, Brookings had become a partner in Cupples and Marston (a manufacturer of woodenware and cordage), which, ten years later, under his leadership, expanded and flourished. In 1896, at the age of 46, he retired to devote his duties towards higher education, and became President of Washington Universitys Board of Trustees, which, through the next twenty years, turned into a major university. He was one of the original Trustees of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and a consultant to the Commission on Economy and Efficiency during the Taft Administration. In 1917, he was appointed to President Wilsons War Industries Board (which had the responsibility of receiving and distributing the supplies needed by the military), later becoming Chairman of its Price Fixing Committee (responsible for negotiating prices for all goods purchased by the Allied governments), which gave him a key role in the Wilson Administration.
At the age of 70, he took over the leadership of the Institute for Government Research (IGR, founded by lawyer and economist Frederick A. Cleveland in 1916), and raised $750,000 from 92 corporations and a dozen private citizens, to get it moving. Their first project was to push for legislation creating a federal budget, which was successful. The first U.S. Budget Director, under President Harding, was Charles G. Dawes, who relied heavily on the IGRs staff. The Institute was also involved in civil service reform legislation in the 1920s. Among their members: Supreme Court Chief Justice William Howard Taft (who was Chief Justice from 1921-30, after his Presidential term), Herbert Hoover (President, 1929-32), and Elihu Root.
Brookings decided that economics was the biggest issue, and not the administrative aspects that the Institute was covering, so in June, 1922, with a $1,650,000 grant from the Carnegie Corporation, he established the Institute of Economics to represent the interests of the labor unions and the general public. In 1924, he established the Robert S. Brookings School of Economics and Government (an outgrowth of Washington University in St. Louis), to allow doctoral students to spend time in Washington, D.C. to work on the staffs of the IGR and the Institute of Economics.
In 1927, he merged all three organizations to form the Brookings Institution, whose purpose was to train future government officials. He put $6 million, and 36 years of his life, into the nonpartisan, nonprofit center, which analyze government problems, and issue statistical reports. They produce an annual report, Setting National Priorities, which analyze the Presidents Budget.
Their headquarters is an eight story building, eight blocks from the White House, at 1775 Massachusetts Avenue, NW. They have a staff of about 250, including about 45 senior fellows and 19 research associates. Salaries go as high a $40,000 a year.
After serving close to ten years in the State Department, Leo Pasvolsky returned to the Brookings Institution in 1946, along with six other members of the State Department. With the financial backing of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie Corporation, and the Mellon Trust, Pasvolsky initiated an International Studies Group, which developed the basis for the Marshall Plan, to aid the European war recovery efforts.
In 1951, the Chicago Tribune said that the Brookings Institution had created an elaborate program of training and indoctrination in global thinking, and that most of its scholars wind up as policy makers in the State Department. Truman was the first President to turn to them for help. In 1941, he named Brookings Vice President Edwin Nouse as the first Chairman of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisors. Kennedy and Johnson appointed many of their members to key posts. Carters foreign policy became a resting place for the many of the groups recommendations.
President Johnson said that the purpose of his Great Society legislation was to try to take all of the money that we think is unnecessarily being spent and take it from the haves and give it to the have-nots that need it so much. Ralph Epperson, author of The Unseen Hand, one of the best books about the Master Conspiracy, said that Johnson was a closet Communist.
Another well-known researcher, John Coleman, said that the Brookings Institute had developed and drafted the Great Society programs which were,
in every detail, simply lifted from Fabian Socialist papers drawn up in England. In some instances, Brookings did not even bother to change the titles of the Fabian Society papers. Once such instance was using Great Society, which was taken directly from a Fabian Socialist paper from the same title.
After Socialist leader Eugene Debs died in 1926, Socialist Norman Thomas, who graduated from and was ordained by the Union Theological Seminary, became the leader of the Socialist Party, running for President six times. Thomas was happy with Johnsons vision and said: I ought to rejoice and I do. I rub my eyes in amazement and surprise. His war on poverty is a Socialistic approach
Republicans regard the Institution as the Democratic government-in-exile, yet, Nixon appointed Herbert Stein, a Brookings scholar, to be Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors. The Nixon Administration, who at one time had considered bombing the Brookings Institution, in order to allow the FBI to seize their documents, had considered the idea of a Brookings Institution for Republicans, to offset the liberalism of Brookings. They thought of calling it the Institute for an Informed America, or the Silent Majority Institute. E. Howard Hunt, of Watergate fame, was to be its first Director, but he wanted to turn it into a center for covert political activity.
The role of the conservative Brookings was taken by an existing research center called the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, which was founded in 1943 by Louis H. Brown (Chairman of the Board at Johns-Manville Corporation), to promote free enterprise ideas. During the early sixties, they shortened their name to the American Enterprise Institute, and later received a lot of financial support during the Nixon and Ford Administrations, when the organization became a pool from which they drew their advisors. When Carter was elected, the AEI became a haven for many Republican officials, including President Gerald Ford, and William E. Simon, the Secretary of Treasury.
THE COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
In 1941, Paul Gray Hoffman, President of the Studebaker Company, and a Trustee of the University of Chicago; along with Robert Maynard Hutchins, and William Benton, the Universitys President and Vice President; organized the American Policy Commission to apply the work of the Universitys scholars and economists to government policy. They later merged with an organization established in 1939 by Fortune magazine, called Fortune Round Table.
Starting out as a group of business, labor, agricultural, and religious leaders, they soon evolved into an Establishment organization, with such members as: Ralph McCabe (head of Scott Paper Co.), Henry Luce (Editor-in-Chief and co-founder of Time, Life, and Fortune magazines), Ralph Flanders (a Boston banker), Marshall Field (Chicago newspaper publisher), Clarence Francis (head of General Foods), Ray Rubicam (an advertising representative), and Beardsley Ruml (treasurer of Macys Department Store in New York City, former Dean of Social Sciences at the University of Chicago, and Chairman of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, whose idea it was to deduct taxes from your paycheck).
At the beginning of World War II, Hoffman and Benton approached Jesse Jones, the Secretary of Commerce, with an idea for an American Policy Commission to analyze, criticize, and challenge the thinking and policies of business, labor, agriculture, and government, which Jones accepted, and began to organize, with their help. On September 3, 1942, the Committee for Economic Development was incorporated in Washington, D.C. (2000 L Street NW, Suite 700) to:
to foster, promote, conduct, encourage, and finance scientific research, education, training, and publication in the broad field of economics in order that industry and commerce may be in a position, in the postwar period, to make their full contribution to high and secure standards of living for people in all walks of life through maximum employment and high productivity in our domestic economy; to promote and carry out these objects, purposes, and principles in a free society without regard to, and independently of the special interests of any group in the body politic, either political, social, or economic.
Basically, their work centered around how to prepare the U.S. economy for a smooth transition from a wartime to a peacetime environment without the occurrence of a major depression or recession. A 1944 CED Report, International Trade and Domestic Employment, by Duke University Professor Calvin B. Hoover, helped push the United States into the International Monetary Fund, which was laid out at the Bretton Woods Conference in June, 1944, by chief negotiators Harry Dexter White (of the CFR) and John Maynard Keynes (of the Fabian Society); and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank); which both became part of the United Nations. It also helped motivate Establishment backing for what later emerged as the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs.
About three years later, their report on An American Program of European Economic Cooperation was eventually developed into the strategy for European recovery that became part of the Marshall Plan. In fact, Hoffman, who became the first CED Chairman, later headed the Federal agency that administered the Marshall Plan.
After the War, while Hoover was on leave from Duke, he worked with Hoffman to develop what eventually became known as the Marshall Plan. The groups later work laid the groundwork for regional government in the United States.
Back to Contents
