# Former White House Official Says U.S. Already at War with Russia and 
China

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_americanempire40.htm

December 26, 2014 from KingWorldNews Website
Spanish version
Italian version
Today a former White House official stunned King World News by saying the United States is already at war with China and Russia.
Former presidential adviser and member of the U.S. President's Working Group on Financial Markets, Dr. Philippa Malmgren, also discussed how and where this dangerous war is taking place and why the public is totally unaware of it up to now.
Eric King: "Because you are friends with former defense ministers you are up to speed on geopolitics, but I kind of laughed because NATO was talking about creating a 'Spearhead Force' of 3,000-4,000 soldiers, and the United States said they are going to send 100 tanks to the Baltic States." (Laughter) Dr. Malmgren: "Yes." (Laughter) Eric King: "The reason I'm laughing is because just one battle in World War II, the Battle of Kursk in Russia, involved 2,000,000 men, 6,000 tanks, and 4,000 aircraft. I laugh because what does the West think it's going to do by getting 3,000-4,000 men together and sending 100 tanks up against Russia? (Laughter). It's comical." Dr. Malmgren: "I was commissioned to write a 90 page study. That gets into this issue of how modern wars are conducted. It isn't with boots on the ground and tanks any more. Increasingly these things (wars) are fought in cyberspace and we've seen that happen recently with North Korea. Cyberwarfare and space is really where the action is "The United States, Russia, and China are all vying for dominance over high-altitude satellites, which dominate all the guidance and communications systems for the conduct of warfare. And increasingly (we are seeing) stealthy methods of conducting conflict. For example, the Russians have been very active recently in showing their dominance in the Baltic Sea, which dictates who dominants Scandinavia and the Baltic countries. And in doing that, it's not that they have so many ships or better quality ships, it's how effectively they've been able to show they can take territory if they want to. The Danes released a report showing that during the largest naval exercise held last summer by the Russians, since the Soviet period, in part what they were doing was practicing taking and seizing an island in the Baltic which currently belongs to Denmark. And it was so interesting they (Russia) picked the very week that the Danes held the equivalent of Davos - the meeting where every single political leader in that nation happens to be on that island at that time. The question is: If the Russians were to take a Danish island, would President Obama respond? And I think the Russian view is, 'No.' That's an interesting question because then it doesn't even matter how many (men, tanks, and planes) you have. The question is: Would you be willing to deploy all of your capabilities, including in cyberspace and real space? And the answer there is less obvious. So think about the conduct of conflict because it may not look the same as it did in the past. War is a subject where innovation matters." Eric King: "So this next war is to be fought in space and over the Internet?" Dr. Malmgren: "Conflict is already occurring in that arena. And it's interesting how the public either doesn't know about it or doesn't want to know about it. I was recently at a meeting with a lot of very senior people from the defense community, and their view is that we are already in a nose-to-nose confrontation (war) with China and Russia. But these (wars) are being conducted through cyberspace rather than through traditional conventional weapons. Although having said that, we've had so many near misses between Russian fighter jets and NATO or American fighter jets. There have been a huge number of air incursions by the Russians into western European airspace and Japanese airspace. And the same with the Chinese - we've had a number of near misses. In fact, when President Obama did his recent trip to Asia he signed a deal with President Xi of China where they basically agreed to set up a hotline between Beijing and Washington that's exclusively devoted to a 'Near-miss' between any U.S. or Asian allied aircraft or ships that might occur with Chinese aircraft or ships. Now, you wouldn't be doing that unless you were expecting more of these things to occur. Meanwhile, there is no such hotline anymore between Washington and Moscow."
Eric King:
"Because you are friends with former defense ministers you are up to speed on geopolitics, but I kind of laughed because NATO was talking about creating a 'Spearhead Force' of 3,000-4,000 soldiers, and the United States said they are going to send 100 tanks to the Baltic States." (Laughter) Dr. Malmgren:
"Yes." (Laughter)
"The reason I'm laughing is because just one battle in World War II, the Battle of Kursk in Russia, involved 2,000,000 men, 6,000 tanks, and 4,000 aircraft.
I laugh because what does the West think it's going to do by getting 3,000-4,000 men together and sending 100 tanks up against Russia? (Laughter). It's comical." Dr. Malmgren:
"I was commissioned to write a 90 page study. That gets into this issue of how modern wars are conducted.
It isn't with boots on the ground and tanks any more. Increasingly these things (wars) are fought in cyberspace and we've seen that happen recently with North Korea. Cyberwarfare and space is really where the action is "The United States, Russia, and China are all vying for dominance over high-altitude satellites, which dominate all the guidance and communications systems for the conduct of warfare. And increasingly (we are seeing) stealthy methods of conducting conflict. For example, the Russians have been very active recently in showing their dominance in the Baltic Sea, which dictates who dominants Scandinavia and the Baltic countries. And in doing that, it's not that they have so many ships or better quality ships, it's how effectively they've been able to show they can take territory if they want to. The Danes released a report showing that during the largest naval exercise held last summer by the Russians, since the Soviet period, in part what they were doing was practicing taking and seizing an island in the Baltic which currently belongs to Denmark.
And it was so interesting they (Russia) picked the very week that the Danes held the equivalent of Davos - the meeting where every single political leader in that nation happens to be on that island at that time. The question is: If the Russians were to take a Danish island, would President Obama respond? And I think the Russian view is, 'No.' That's an interesting question because then it doesn't even matter how many (men, tanks, and planes) you have.
The question is: Would you be willing to deploy all of your capabilities, including in cyberspace and real space? And the answer there is less obvious. So think about the conduct of conflict because it may not look the same as it did in the past. War is a subject where innovation matters."
"So this next war is to be fought in space and over the Internet?" Dr. Malmgren:
"Conflict is already occurring in that arena. And it's interesting how the public either doesn't know about it or doesn't want to know about it.
I was recently at a meeting with a lot of very senior people from the defense community, and their view is that we are already in a nose-to-nose confrontation (war) with China and Russia.
But these (wars) are being conducted through cyberspace rather than through traditional conventional weapons.
Although having said that, we've had so many near misses between Russian fighter jets and NATO or American fighter jets.
There have been a huge number of air incursions by the Russians into western European airspace and Japanese airspace. And the same with the Chinese - we've had a number of near misses. In fact, when President Obama did his recent trip to Asia he signed a deal with President Xi of China where they basically agreed to set up a hotline between Beijing and Washington that's exclusively devoted to a 'Near-miss' between any U.S. or Asian allied aircraft or ships that might occur with Chinese aircraft or ships. Now, you wouldn't be doing that unless you were expecting more of these things to occur.
Meanwhile, there is no such hotline anymore between Washington and Moscow."
Former White House Official
War Will Now Expand
...to More Countries Bordering Russia December 27, 2014 from KingWorldNews Website
Today a former White House official told King World News to expect armed conflict to spread to additional countries bordering Russia.
Former presidential adviser and member of the U.S. President's Working Group on Financial Markets, Dr. Philippa Malmgren, also discussed why the war will expand and how Germany and other countries are positioning themselves ahead of even greater armed conflict.
Eric King: "What about the fact that the Hungarian leader came out and essentially said, 'I'm not looking to the West - the West is entirely bankrupt. I'm looking to the East for the future of my country in terms of trade, finance, and commerce." Dr. Philippa Malmgren: "Well, that's a very big topic because it's not just about Hungary - it's about every nation that is on the border of Russia. Each country is effectively signaling whose side its on . "For example, the leader of Belarus has signaled that he wants to get closer to NATO, i.e. the West, and he's slowing down the process of an alignment with Russia that had been in motion. Hungary is saying, 'Well, we're choosing to go with the Russians rather than against them.' Germany, frankly, has signaled more and more that it's economic future lies more with the East, including Russia, and less with the West. And that's partly because the West, what does that represent? It (the West) is Italy, France, Spain, all economies that are dead in the water. There is no economic activity going on there. Which Side Will Germany Choose? And Russia may be having a lot of noise in its economy right now, but generally speaking the East has proved a place that can generate profits for Germany more effectively than western Europe. So Germany doesn't say, 'We're out of NATO,' or 'We're going to leave the West,' but they increasingly welcome the East. Armed Conflict To Spread So we should watch every single country that's on the border of Russia and listen carefully to which side they are choosing. And we're going to get a fight in every location about the choice that's made because nobody is just going to accept which countries want to go East and which countries want to go West."
"What about the fact that the Hungarian leader came out and essentially said, 'I'm not looking to the West - the West is entirely bankrupt.
I'm looking to the East for the future of my country in terms of trade, finance, and commerce." Dr. Philippa Malmgren:
"Well, that's a very big topic because it's not just about Hungary - it's about every nation that is on the border of Russia. Each country is effectively signaling whose side its on . "For example, the leader of Belarus has signaled that he wants to get closer to NATO, i.e. the West, and he's slowing down the process of an alignment with Russia that had been in motion. Hungary is saying, 'Well, we're choosing to go with the Russians rather than against them.'
Germany, frankly, has signaled more and more that it's economic future lies more with the East, including Russia, and less with the West. And that's partly because the West, what does that represent? It (the West) is Italy, France, Spain, all economies that are dead in the water.
There is no economic activity going on there.
Which Side Will Germany Choose? And Russia may be having a lot of noise in its economy right now, but generally speaking the East has proved a place that can generate profits for Germany more effectively than western Europe.
So Germany doesn't say, 'We're out of NATO,' or 'We're going to leave the West,' but they increasingly welcome the East.
Armed Conflict To Spread So we should watch every single country that's on the border of Russia and listen carefully to which side they are choosing.
And we're going to get a fight in every location about the choice that's made because nobody is just going to accept which countries want to go East and which countries want to go West."
***
Listen Dr. Philippa Malmgren audio interview which discusses the war that is raging between the United States, Russia and China, stunning 2015 predictions, the war in the gold market and much more.
This is one of Dr. Malmgren's most important audio interviews:
Return to Russia and The EU
Return to American "Empire"
Return to The End of The Internet... As We Know It?
Return to Global Militarism - The Military-Industrial Complex
