# Fortress Americas

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_zion40.htm

by
Joe Vialls
from
Vialls Website
recovered through
WayBackMachine website
Spanish version
Part 1
Ben Gurions Ultimate One True Zion
14 December 2003
It was always night when they came, a certainly
that made Palestinian women huddle nervously inside their small houses until
the sun rose high in the sky the following day.
Sometimes there was a hint of an advance
warning, perhaps animals moving restlessly, or olive trees rustling when
there was no wind, but this morning there was no time to prepare and no time
to hide their helpless children.
Armed with weapons stolen from British soldiers
whose throats were cut while they slept, Irgun, Stern and Haganah terrorists
slipped silently into the Palestinian village of Deir Yassin at dawn.
Led by war criminal Menachem Begin, this Zionist
scum from the ghettos and gutters of Europe flitted from house to house,
committing unspeakable atrocities and laughing aloud as the defenseless
women tried to resist.
When they finally tired of this sport, Irgun, Stern and Haganah terrorists
alike opened fire, their stolen British bullets ripping through the
vulnerable flesh of unarmed Palestinians. By noon that same day, 9 April
1948, just over 200 Palestinians lay dead in Deir Yassin, more than half of
them women and children. But the terrorists were not quite finished. Next,
they loaded 25 unarmed male survivors on trucks and paraded them around the
Zakhron Yosef quarter in Jerusalem.
It was a display of absolute Zionist
power, showing all and sundry who was really in control of Palestine.
It could have ended there, but the Zionists had something more spectacular
in mind: a lesson to all others who might dare to stand in their way, then
or at any time in the future. The 25 unarmed survivors were driven to a
stone quarry near Givat Shaul, where they were made to kneel, before Irgun
and Stern terrorists took it in turns to fire single bullets into the back
of each head. The lifeless bodies were then kicked into shallow graves.
These were the Shock and Awe tactics of David Ben Gurion, founding father
of both Zionism and global terrorism.
Though obviously clinically insane, this was the
man who first drew up the plan for Zion, a Promised Land for the Jews,
which most global citizens erroneously believed, and still believe, to be
Palestine. But even as the first Jewish State was being formally declared in
1948, the arrogant Ben Gurion made it very clear that Palestine was not to
be the one true Zion.
Despite continual frantic urgings by religious Jews,
he insisted that this first conquest be called "Yisrael", and that its
citizens, be they Jewish or not, would forever be called Yisraelim.
The final Zion, or Promised Land, would be determined by raw wealth and
power rather than by mere religious symbolism. While intentionally leaking
false Zions including Australia and Argentina to the media, Ben Gurion and
his Zionist cohorts ultimately intended to overrun and capture the Americas.
The problem was that back in 1948 they had no
real power, and would have been easily overwhelmed by the vast resources of
the U.S. Military in particular. So conquest of the one true Zion was to
be a long drawn-out game, with Zionists lobbies in America gradually eating
away at the fabric of society.
Then, when resistance in the Americas was
eventually undermined to a predetermined level, it would be time to strike
militarily.
Believe me, that time is now very close.
It is easy to imagine the indignation caused by
this statement, no doubt accompanied by shrill cries from the Zionist
lobbies in New York and Washington demanding fully-referenced academic
proof of this obscene covert plan.
Naturally there is no academic proof, because,
as with other plans involving massive deception of the western public,
intelligence agencies and lobbies always grade the details Top Secret or
higher.
A good example of this is Operation Northwoods, a 1962 plan designed to
give the U.S. Administration extraordinary powers over the people, using
only a series of deceptions generated by Americans for use against other
Americans.
Northwoods had the written approval of the
Chairman and every member of the American Joint Chiefs of Staff. The plan
called for innocent people to be shot on American streets; for boats
carrying refugees fleeing Cuba to be sunk on the high seas; for a wave of
violent terrorism to be launched in Washington, D.C., Miami, and elsewhere.
Under Northwoods, people would be framed for bombings they did not commit;
and planes would be hijacked. But despite the deranged audacity of its
plans, for more than thirty years not a single American citizen had the
slightest idea that Operation Northwoods even existed. Remember, the simple
fact that you do not know about the plan, is not proof the plan does not
exist.
The only way to obtain information as sensitive as that laid out in
Fortress Americas, is to have direct or indirect access to a disgruntled
source or sources at the very top of the Zionist chain of command; access
which I proved existed back in January 2002.
On the 30th of that month I
published Operation Shekhinah, an eyes-only highly classified Zionist plan
to capture Iraqs oil reserves and re-route them through to Haifa in Israel.
I provided significant details and actual
pipeline routes, but, as fully expected, came in for a fearful hammering
from thousands of people who clearly thought I had gone insane.
This reaction was fully expected at the time,
because who on earth would believe such a detailed plan without proper
academic accreditation?
There was only one reason for publishing Operation Shekhinah in January
2002, and that was to get an official Internet time/date stamp on the
report, more than a year before
George W. Bush suddenly and apparently
spontaneously decided to illegally invade Iraq, allegedly because of its
Weapons of Mass Destruction. It was not until after the gun smoke started
to clear, and no weapons of mass destruction were ever found, that the true
Zionist objective of the invasion became clear.
Within months, Israeli and American newspaper started calling for old
pipelines from Iraq to Haifa to be reopened for economic benefit. This
proved that my Operation Shekhinah of January 2002 was horribly real, and,
more importantly, proved I was either endowed with quite extraordinary
extra-sensory perception, or had access to the very top of the Zionist chain
of command. Rest assured I do not have any powers of extra-sensory
perception, meaning my credibility is now independently assured by
unemotional fully-automatic Internet time/date stamps.
Before we return to the subject at hand, viz. the total subordination of the
Americas as we know them today, it would be prudent to insert a short
paragraph on that old bogey Anti-Semitism, in its revised and inaccurate
form meaning anti-Jew. No doubt a few thousand idiots may tag me with this
meaningless media label some time soon, but this would probably be a serious
error of judgment.
As you will read later in this multi-part Fortress Americas report, some of
the first targets of the Zionist hunter-killer teams in North and South
America will be prominent Jews, who do not see eye-to-eye with their crazed
Zionist brethren, thus rendering them higher priority targets than even the
leaders of various hostile American militias.
If I was an anti-Semite, then no doubt I would
lock Fortress Americas securely in a cupboard, chuckle insanely, buy a
giant bucket of popcorn, and then sit back in Australia waiting for the
pre-emptive strikes to start on television.
Although Ben Gurion did not start drawing up detailed strategies
until the twentieth century, Fortress Americas existed in outline form
nearly a hundred years earlier, when plans were made to introduce an
exclusively Jewish-controlled series of Masonic Lodges across North and
South America. In less than fifty years, the new Bnai
Brith series of lodges managed to penetrate, dominate, and thus
direct all important aspects of western
Masonry, in particular the 33rd Degree and
Royal Arch.
The choice of the name Bnai Brith was inspired, because it mirrored that
of a secular Jewish fraternal organization which later went on to become
more commonly known as the Anti-Defamation League, a bunch of powerful
head-kickers famed for their attacks on anyone daring to mouth even mild
dissent against Jews in general.
Thus if at any time there was suspicion about
possible Bnai Brith subversion or outright terrorism in North or South
America, the fraternal organization would automatically lash out in a hasty
knee jerk reaction, thereby unwittingly protecting its mirror Masonic
brethren.
The importance of these covert American Bnai
Brith terrorist-coordinating cells cannot be overstated, and will be
covered in more detail later in this report.
As most readers are already aware, Ben Gurions
Yisrael has absolutely nothing to do with Jewish religious heritage, or
the right of return to a homeland claimed solely on the basis of
improvable religious babble.
Certainly thousands of religious fanatics bang
their heads against a stone wall below the al-Aqsâ Mosque in Jerusalem every
day, but they are only there to provide local color for the media cameras.
Yisrael was and is to the Zionists what Omaha
Beach was to the Americans during World War II - merely a beachhead from
which to launch deep penetrating attacks into enemy territory to the east,
ultimately to Abadan and beyond, thereby securing the incredibly rich crude
oil reserves of the Middle East. Those oil riches would then in turn arm and
equip the new Zionists legions need to move on to their ultimate target, the
one true Zion called the Americas.
The problem was that countries like Britain and Russia kept getting in the
way of these covert ambitions. In the very beginning, the British tried to
keep these Zionist terrorists out of Palestine but were eventually outvoted
by the new powerful America, which dutifully bleated time and again that,
"The Jews must have a home land".
The British could see what was coming, but they
were powerless to stop it happening. Later on the Russians took over
responsibility for deterrence, neatly blocking the intended Zionist
expansion by judiciously positioning tactical nuclear weapons in Syria and
Egypt.
Thus there was stalemate in the Middle East for nearly thirty years, with
the Zionists effectively stalled by lack of direct control over the oil
assets. Back then this was acceptable to the Zionists, because the Shah of
Iran was quietly providing Israel with all the free oil it needed for its
[local] warlike behavior, and Yisraelim Zionists started to pay more
attention to beach volley ball than to the ultimate conquest of the one true
Zion.
With the fall of the Shah in 1979 and the
cessation of free Iranian oil supplies, everyone woke up with a fearful
jolt, realizing that now was the time to start making serious long-term
preparations for the invasion of the Americas.
At the end of 1979 it was considered that completion of the prerequisites
for invasion would take about another twenty-five years, because there were
a considerable number of tasks at hand. Unable to trust Russia in the medium
to long term, the Zionists wanted American taxpayers to pre-equip the one
true Zion with a workable intercontinental missile defense shield, placing
them well beyond the reach of the Russians at any time in the future. They
also wanted a comprehensive survey of all energy resources, because once in
place, Fortress Americas had to be 100% self sufficient in oil, gas, coal
and nuclear energy.
There were also other less academic
considerations.
At best is was envisaged that up to 250,000
Zionists made up of four and six-man covert Mistaravim hunter-killer teams
would be inserted into the Americas using various subterfuges, but this was
still a very small number when compared with the massive strength of
existing armies in North and South America.
Even with the element of complete surprise the
odds were against success, so supplementary plans were then added to
biologically cripple at least fifty-percent of active-service United States
military units, and disarm the civilian populations of North and South
America, after staging a comprehensive series of high-profile lone nut
massacres in school yards and elsewhere.
More about these plans later.
Of all considerations, energy was the most
important, and by late 1980 a comprehensive top secret survey was under way
of the Falkland Islands Continental Shelf, considered by many to be the
brightest prospect for a long-term oil supply for Fortress Americas.
Though a seven-person cell at British Petroleum
was used as an untraceable front, the actual survey was conducted by
American energy corporation S***, which could barely believe the awesome
results, which were checked again twice for good measure.
There was no mistake. According to the comprehensive survey conducted with
state-of-the-art equipment, The Falklands Shelf conservatively contained
slightly more than ten times the total oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. Beyond
doubt, this was the largest agglomeration of crude oil on the face of the
earth, and the data that proved it immediately attracted a security rating
to match.
This was Zionist heaven, and absolutely no one
outside the loop was allowed even a sniff of this staggering information.
Then in one of those gargantuan mistakes that defy rational explanation, a
full set of the seismic and other data was shipped to the British Petroleum
front cell, whose members were most certainly not on the Zionist list of
properly approved people.
Some of the data were photocopied out of
interest amid loud Oohs and Ahhs generated by the mind-numbing figures,
but the photocopying turned out to be a serious mistake.
By 1989 all but two of the British people who
had access to this extraordinary information met with fatal accidents. Of
the two survivors, one changed names and moved to a different industry,
while I chose exile in a sleepy Australian backwater.
Talking America into spending billions on a missile defense shield took
longer than the energy survey, but during March 1983 President Ronald Reagan
addressed the National Association of Evangelicals and called the Soviet
Union the Evil Empire.
Like
George Dubya and his various speeches twenty years later
about Iraqi democracy, Ronnie was just warming up in front of his
pro-Zionist evangelical audience.
Then two weeks later he delivered a national
security speech and called upon,
the scientific community in this country,
who gave us nuclear weapons, to turn their great talents to the cause of
mankind and world peace; to give us the means of rendering these weapons
impotent and obsolete.
The fix was in, and two years later the
Strategic Defense Initiative [SDI] was born, designed to develop
kinetic missiles, laser beam weapons, electromagnetic rail guns, and a host
of other assorted pieces of space junk.
The problem was that nobody had the slightest
idea how to make such a complex integrated system work.
In very short order,
America farmed out some important SDI contracts to British defense
companies, who were known to be leading lights in certain areas absolutely
critical to the success of the desired one true Zion missile shield.
Some but not all of these Marconi and other British defense sub-contractors
were allowed access to certain classified American defense computers, as an
integral part of their SDI work, which would have been fine if they were the
only scientists tapping into the data. Unfortunately they were not, and
perhaps because they did not know how to navigate around inside the American
systems, three [and possibly four] British scientists found themselves
connected to Zionist computers on the other side of cyber space.
What the scientists discovered, at least in part, were sections of advanced
strategic and tactical plans for Fortress Americas. One scientist mistakenly
thought it was all part of the SDI scenario, while another thought it was
just a practical joke.
The reality was quite different. Zionists
computer scientists working on Fortress Americas had hacked into the
American defense systems looking for classified information, and had made
the hideous mistake of doing so while using computer platforms which
contained critical details about Fortress Americas.
The cat was almost out of the bag, but the Zionists swiftly thought of a way
of shutting everything down again. As you would expect, the solution to the
problem was both chilling and obscene, as befits the maniacs who have
every intention of turning the United States of America into their personal
headquarters.
It is perhaps time for all Americans, Canadians, and the residents of South
America to wake up. The real enemy does not reside in the back blocks of
Afghanistan, or underground in dark bunkers below Tikrit.
Though his preferred accommodation was razed to
the ground on
11 September 2001, the real enemy is still
alive and well, living high on the hog in New York City.
Part 2
"Yisraelim Prepare for the Invasion of
America"
22 January 2004
Before delving any further into the detailed
contingencies for Fortress Americas, it is necessary to briefly review the
overall scope and sheer audacity of the Zionist plan, because this is the
only way of understanding what comes next.
In essence, the entire American continent, from
Inuvik in northern Canada to the southern tip of Tierra Del Fuego, is to be
invaded and captured for Zionist use, with the cabal exercising central
command and control from New York City, currently located in the much
smaller United States of America.
Within this new massive fortress, the USA will
be the focal point of all significant economic activities, with Canada and
the former countries of Latin and South America providing the bulk of
natural resources and cheap labor.
Initial military activity will consist of
approximately 250,000 Mistaravim-trained Yisraelim terrorists entering the
Americas by land, sea and air, thereafter splitting into cells of between
four and six men, every one of them coordinated internally by various
designated lodges of
the B'nai B'rith Masonic order.
At the same time, a further smaller block of
10,000 Yisraelim terrorists will enter Australia in order to capture and
hold strategic mineral reserves, though this is an entirely separate
operation that will not impact directly on the Americas.
Beyond that point, strategic planning calls for
the U.S. military to obey the orders of the Zionist cabal through its
Yisraelim commanders, and then be used in turn as a blunt instrument to
enforce 'order' across the new Fortress Americas.
Back in New York well before the invasion proper commenced, the Zionist
cabal wanted American taxpayers to pre-equip the one true Zion with a
workable intercontinental missile defense shield, placing them well beyond
the reach of hostile nuclear weapons in the future. The cabal also wanted a
comprehensive survey of all energy resources on the American continent,
because once it became an independent entity, Fortress Americas had to be
one-hundred-percent self sufficient in all forms of energy.
Studies of energy reserves in the United States, combined with those in
Canada, Venezuela, Colombia, and Brazil, which would be forcibly
requisitioned after the invasion, proved that existing reserves would be
woefully inadequate to even protect Fortress Americas from external attack.
Because of this, the search for enhanced
reserves in the Americas assumed top priority, and in late 1979 a vast
two-year seismic survey of the South American Continental Shelf was
commissioned through a Zionist front company in The United States, with much
emphasis placed on the extended Continental Shelf surrounding the Falkland
Islands.
The Falklands survey was successful beyond the wildest dreams of the Zionist
cabal, indicating overall oil reserves under the Falklands Continental Shelf
more than ten times as large as those existing in Saudi Arabia.
Unfortunately the British administered the Falklands, and New York was
determined that London would not be allowed to interfere with this
staggering oil discovery, which by itself was sufficient to drive Fortress
Americas for a hundred years or more.
The problem was how to rid themselves of the
British presence in the Falklands.
After considerable thought on the matter, the
Zionist cabal finally acted on 19 March 1982, sending a hand-carried
top-secret communiqué to the Argentine Government, which contained a
doctored version of the Falklands report showing "about half the oil
reserves as those existing in Saudi Arabia", and urging the Argentines to
act quickly in regaining their birthright.
It was a fine calculation, based on Britain
being unwilling to react to an oil find of this particular magnitude, but
sent in the certain knowledge that the Argentines would react, as indeed
they did. Seven days later on 26 March 1982 the Argentine Government decided
on an invasion date, and seven days after that, on 2 April 1982, Argentine
forces captured and occupied the Falkland Islands.
The Zionist cabal was delighted because it knew full well that the Argentine
Government could later be bought off or exterminated, with the massive
Falklands oil reserves subsequently being added to Fortress Americas energy
assets.
But the cabal's delight was to be short-lived,
because the Zionists were still unaware that copies of the real report had
been accidentally circulated to a small number of people at British
Petroleum in London.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had therefore
been watching Argentina like a hawk for five months, and responded to the
expected invasion within three days of the capture of Stanley, dispatching a
large battle fleet from Britain on 5 April 1982. France provided significant
assistance with the British recovery of the Falklands, though French
involvement was very discreet, and never officially disclosed to the media.
The importance of this British defeat of Argentine forces in the Falklands
cannot be overstated. In order to take the Americas at all, the Zionist
cabal needed massive combat oil supplies far in excess of those already
existing in north and south America, meaning that plans had to be revised to
include conquest of the Middle East oilfields first.
It was precisely this requirement that later
spawned
Operation Shekhinah and
Operation Iraqi Freedom, though we do not
need to examine either of those latter plans here.
Both have been reported on extensively by the
author.
By far the most pressing requirement for
Fortress Americas was that of 'blooding' at least 275,000 Yisraelim
terrorists, and then raising their combat skills to approximately the same
level as that of the American Delta Force or the British SAS.
Ultimately these terrorists would form the core
of the invasion force, and be required to operate as thousands of small
independent 4-6 man cells with complete confidence, a task well beyond the
abilities of even the best trained conventional soldiers. Clearly paper
targets were no good for this training, and there were only a limited number
of Palestinian women and children targets available in the territories.
The Yisraelis could not fan out to the east without risking a catastrophic
response from Russia, so they took the only course available.
On 6 June 1982 they moved north into the
Lebanon, determined to blood their young inexperienced soldiers and
magically transform them into Yisraelim terrorists in less than six months.
With each battalion under the watchful eye of two experienced Mistaravim [Yisraeli
Civilian Special Forces], the young soldiers were instructed in the special
art of Jewish warfare, where all
Goyim [non-Jews] deserve to die.
Over the months that followed, thousands of Lebanese died in many horrible
ways, with the Mistaravim instructors driving their young Yisraeli pupils on
to greater and greater numbers of murders, and other gross human rights
excesses. Headed throughout by Yisraeli 'defense minister' Ariel Sharon, the
murders and gang-rapes peaked in September 1982, less than a month after a
token multinational peace keeping force arrived in the Lebanon, when more
than 2,000 unarmed Palestinians civilians were murdered by Yisraelim
terrorists in less than a single week at the refugee camps of Sabra and
Shatilla.
By his orders and actions, war criminal Sharon was making a deliberate
point: The Yisraelim would rape or murder whichever Goyim they chose,
whenever they chose, as was their 'legal entitlement' under the insane
'laws' of the Babylonian Talmud.
In the words of the master war criminal himself,
the Lebanon and Beirut in particular were "wonderful training grounds", but
the sheer level of brutal savagery at Sabra and Shatilla ensured growing
attention by the international community, and over the Christmas period, the
multinational peace keeping force more than doubled in size, headed by the
Americans and French.
The Zionists were furious when the multinational peace keeping force invaded
their new training ground, and on 18 April 1983 they bombed the American
Embassy in Beirut, killing 63 people. Then on 23 October the Zionists
detonated two Dimona micro nukes outside the American and French marine
barracks in Beirut, killing 241 and 58 soldiers respectively.
The multinational peace keeping force swiftly
retreated, leaving the Lebanese people as live targets for Mistaravim and
other Zionist kill-teams wishing to hone their lethal skills.
This was the first documented use of Yisraeli
micro nukes outside Palestine, but it was not to be the last. Most
notable of the new low-radiation micro nukes used overseas during later
years for practice, reprisals and covert operations, were three detonated in
London and a fourth in Bali.
Intelligence received in 2003 indicates that
Dimona has so far manufactured in excess of 600 of these exotic weapons.
Most micro nukes remain in Palestine, though 220 have allegedly been
pre-positioned in North and South America, with a further six deployed to
Western Australia.
Though the Yisraelis had already managed to butcher most of the Palestinian
refugees in The Lebanon, they were attacked by an increasing number of
outraged Lebanese, and by the Hizbollah, a new counter-insurgency army
formed and funded by Syria and Iran, specifically to drive the Yisraeli
terrorists out of Lebanese sovereign territory.
By mid 1985 the Hizbollah gathered strength and
efficiency, forcing the Yisraelis to withdraw to southern Lebanon, where
they formed a new 'occupation zone' for the continued field training of
Fortress Americas and other terrorist personnel.
Between 1985 and 2000, more than 100,000
Yisraelim terrorists were 'blooded' in the south Lebanon occupation zone,
until direct threats from Russia forced them to withdraw completely. And so
it was that at exactly 0341 hrs GMT on 24 May 2000, the last Yisraeli tank
left the Lebanon, crossing through the Fattier Gate back into Palestine.
Unfortunately, this upset the advanced Fortress Americas training program,
so the Zionist cabal in New York ordered war criminal Sharon to "provoke the
Palestinians in the territories", a task he completed with gusto just over
four months later on 28 September 2000, when he deliberately invaded and
violated the Muslim al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem.
Predictably and understandably, Sheik Ahmed
Yasin, the spiritual leader of
Hamas, said that,
"the visit of leader of the extreme rightist
Likud party Ariel Sharon to the al-Aqsa mosque, expresses the
spirit of terrorism, criminality and assault to the sacred places."
Of course it did, and this was exactly what the
Zionist cabal intended.
Having provoked the Palestinians into throwing a
few stones at a handful of checkpoints, the Yisraeli terrorists responded
with light and heavy automatic rifles and machine guns, 120-mm tank guns,
helicopter gunships, and even F-16 fighter-bombers. All weapon systems were
graciously donated free by Americans, in order that the Yisraelis might
learn how to later kill Americans efficiently in America, using identical
techniques.
As I write this report in January 2004, and
taking into account all Yisraelim trained earlier in The Lebanon, the
Zionist cabal now has in excess of 275,000 terrorists fully trained and
combat ready. At least 7,000 of these have already been infiltrated into the
USA, and many more will follow during the months to come.
Running in parallel with terrorist training during the late eighties, were
detailed plans to severely weaken the US military, to promote a general
climate 'conducive to gun control' in the west, and to ensure a defensive
missile shield was in place overhead the Americas. The last-named project
was doomed to failure, and despite costing the lives of a number of British
defense scientists, "Star Wars" was quietly shelved.
Though Bush proposed "Son of Star Wars" in late
2003, there was and is no serious intent to develop a practical missile
defense shield.
Funds from this latest excess will be discreetly
siphoned off by
the Federal Reserve and deposited in a number of numbered
Swiss and Belgian bank accounts, which in turn will provide substantial
pensions for a small number of elitist rats, who are likely to jump the good
ship America before the invasion starts.
Detailed preparations for discreet biological warfare against the US
Military were made in the late eighties, with Zionist-controlled
pharmaceutical corporations developing a very special slow-acting and
debilitating
vaccine. In 1990 a "war with Iraq" was miraculously arranged by
George Bush Senior, with more than half a million American servicemen then
forcibly inoculated with the biological toxin during a six month period.
The prime reason for this was quite simple. The
Yisraelim were not keen to face a hardened and very experienced US military
when the time came to invade the Americas, so took pre-emptive action.
Nowadays so many highly experienced American servicemen have died, or been
permanently incapacitated by this biological warfare, that the token defense
of the Americas will be left in the hands of rookies, reservists, and
various American militia.
None promises to be much of a match for the
hundreds of blooded and highly-trained Yisraelim terrorist cells.
The notion of a 'general climate conducive to
gun control' was really only icing on the cake, designed to minimize the
level of risk to Yisraeli terrorists from American and other civilians. In
this venture the Yisraelis found amazingly helpful allies among the
political 'left wing' of the west.
Every time a Mistaravim special forces team
carried out a "gun massacre" in places as far removed as Scotland and
Australia, literally thousands of lefties joined the media clamor for "gun
control", thereby actively helping to remove the only real form of defense
they had against Yisraeli terrorists in the future. Do not ask me why this
is, but I imagine Sigmund Freud would babble on for hours about guns being
"phallic symbols" that "frighten civilized people".
Maybe so, but a semi-automatic weapon in your
house is, in my view, preferable to later sharing the same terrible fate as
the poor souls at Sabra and Shatilla.
Naturally the Yisraeli terrorists can only hope to remove a tiny fraction of
America's civilian weapons in this way, and therefore already have detailed
plans in place for dealing with the Militias and others who might dare to
defiantly stand in the way of their imperial conquest.
B'nai B'rith has already updated its own super
computers with the profiles of all American militia groups, right-wing
'patriotic' activists, and any one else who it is deemed may cause the
Zionist cabal problems at a later, including those American Jews who are
opposed to the concept of Zion itself.
Unless suitable precautions are taken in advance, all Americans in these
categories will only ever see a Yisraeli terrorist once, and then only for
the three milliseconds it takes for an expanding high velocity .223
Remington bullet to travel from the muzzle of the sawn-off terrorist M-16,
and ride a dazzling red laser beam to a spot directly between their eyes.
Death for male activists will therefore be
mercifully swift, unlike the degrading fate in store for their mothers,
wives, girlfriends, and any female children.
Those American readers who imagine that the
invasion and subordination of the Americas will in some way resemble the
Hollywood film "Red Dawn", are sadly mistaken and need to revise their
views.
Unlike the film Red Dawn, where the invaders
basically killed half of the people and imprisoned the other half, the Yisraelim invasion and conquest will have more in common with Vichy France
during the Second World War. Most politicians will remain in their current
jobs, as will vast numbers of public servants and local police forces.
If the Yisraelim invasion succeeds or even partially succeeds, reversing the
fate of normal American people afterwards will be next to impossible without
an effective two-tier command and control network, ironically very similar
in nature to that of the Iraqi counter-insurgency forces today, who are
being attacked and murdered wholesale by American troops under the overall
direction of the same Zionist cabal in New York.
Now might be a very good time to drag that old reloading press out of the
garden shed, and run up a few hundred extra rounds. Load them up to maximum
breech pressure with excruciating care, and ensure that each and every
hollow point or silver tip bullet is perfectly seated in its case.
It is your personal duty to protect your family
and neighbors by killing enough Yisraeli terrorist scum to deflect their
attention elsewhere, giving you a chance to fight a second day, then another
day, and yet another day, until finally you have killed every last one of
them.
Coming Soon
Potassium - The Crystal of Life Itself Coming
Soon
Back in early December I was taken seriously ill
with what was diagnosed as "Acute Angina", which the medical fraternity told
me had no known cause, which is ridiculous because everything that happens
on the face of the earth has a cause.
In the run-up to Christmas I almost
died three times, and was no longer willing to tolerate the feelings of fear
and utter helplessness caused by this illness.
While surfing the Internet looking for an alternative way out of the mess, I
chanced upon the story of a small Indian tribe, which seemed to hold the
answer I was looking for. Suffice to say that over the next three weeks I
treated myself in a particular way, with truly vast quantities of a mineral
considered to be deadly dangerous by western medical experts.
In fact, it is
the very same mineral used by medical doctors to 'finish off' those executed
by lethal injection in American prisons.
After three weeks of this treatment, every trace of the "Acute Angina"
vanished, and along with it the "Essential Hypertension" I have suffered for
over twenty years.
Because I am now aware that there are probably
tens of thousands more people out there suffering the same terrible pain and
helplessness,
the next report I write will be a properly detailed account of
this remarkable Indian tribe, and how it is that they survive without ever
suffering a single cardio-vascular problem in their entire lifetimes.
Whether or not others will choose to use this knowledge and mineral to rid
themselves of their symptoms I do not know, but I do believe they should
have the knowledge available to them, and the right to use that knowledge if
they so choose.
The report will take quite a long time to research properly, and then write
in an easily understood manner. If you would like to help to place this
critical information in front of those who need it on the Internet, I would
be very grateful.
