# Fragmentary Aquarian Chronology

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/consp_acua/consp_acua_add2.htm

from IlluminatiNews Website
In the 1820s De Quincy confessed to the high incidence of opium eating among the English aristocrats and artists of his day. Among habitual users of Laudanum and morphine have been included Coleridge, Dickens, Carlyle, Rossetti, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and the poet Laureate Tennyson. Britain's Foreign Minister, Lord John Russell and Anthony Ashley Cooper (Earl of Shaftesbury) "guided the political training of ex-American George Peabody, founder of the Morgan financial empire."
In 1857 Morgan and Peabody were saved by an emergency line of credit (800,000 pounds) furnished by the Bank of England with Barings a guarantor of the loan. Peabody later become friends with the "top racial ideologues in British science, Thomas Huxley and Charles Darwin." The American Museum of Natural History, of which the main functions are education, research, exhibition, and publication, was founded in 1869 by a group of wealthy men, among whom was the elder J. P. Morgan. Inspired by the urging of a young naturalist, Alpert Smith Bickmore, and by the theories of Darwin and Huxley which had suddenly given a new interpretation to the origin of life, the group resolved to found a museum that would be the "means of teaching our youth to appreciate the wonderful works of the Creator." The British biologist Julian Sorell Huxley (1887-1975), contributed to knowledge in embryology, systematics, genetics, ethology, and evolutionary studies. He studied the development of many organisms, writing, with Sir Gavin De Beer, Elements of Experimental Embryology (1934).
Huxley presented many of his ideas of evolutionary mechanisms in Evolution: The Modern Synthesis (1942). In 1946 he was appointed the first director general of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). In 1948 Sir Julian Huxley, called for a radical eugenic policy in UNESCO:
"Thus, even though it is quite true that any radical eugenic policy of controlled human breeding will be for many years politically and psychologically impossible, it will be important for UNESCO to see that the eugenic problem is examined with the greatest care and that the public mind is informed of the issues at stake that much that is now unthinkable may at least become thinkable."
The fact that emergence of an organized youth-counterculture around "post-industrial" utopianism reflected the emergence of the forementioned types of psycho-social conditioning, should not be read as evidence that the emergence of the movement itself was in any sense "spontaneous," or "natural."
Very little in modern history has been less natural, indeed more unnatural, than the self-styled nature cult which has grown up, "on behalf of the environment," around the 1961 initiatives of Prince Philip's and Prince Bernhard's reactionary World Wildlife Fund. The members of the new youth-counterculture were virtually campus-laboratory guinea-pigs, whose behavior was induced and directed, from the top-down, from the outset. The environment preparing this operation was established as early as the 1920s, under British Brigadier Dr. John Rawlings Rees of the London Tavistock Clinic. The entire operation was dominated by relatively highly refined methods of mass-brainwashing, assisted by such networks as the Lewin centers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Ann Arbor, Michigan, and the network of Freudian and kindred brainwashing networks, such as "MK-Ultra," spun out from under the direction of Julian Huxley at the UNO and the London Tavistock Clinic. His humanistic beliefs were set forth in the classic Religion Without Revelation (1957).
"I use the word 'Humanist' to mean someone who believes that man... his body, his mind, and his soul were not supernaturally created but are all products of evolution," Julian Huxley once said.
In 1957 Julian Huxley wrote:
"And the relation to practical existence may be one of escape, as in asceticism or pure Buddhism; or of full participation, as in classical Greece or the city-states of ancient Mesopotamia; or of rendering unto Caesar the things that are Caesars's, as in usual Christian practice."
The IUCN has lately produced the UN's Global Biodiversity Assessment, which suggests that the human population should be reduced to one billion.
From the very beginning key UN figures such as Brock Chisholm, Julian Huxley and Paul G. Hoffman "were promoting anti-natalist policies." The United Nations is a specific example of Humanism at work. The first Director General of UNESCO, the UN organization promoting education, science, and culture, was the 1962 Humanist of the Year Julian Huxley, who practically drafted UNESCO'S charter by himself.
The first Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) was the 1959 Humanist of the Year Brock Chisholm. One of this organization's greatest accomplishments has been the wiping of smallpox from the face of the earth. And the first Director-General of the Food and Agricultural Organization was British Humanist John Boyd Orr. The poppy seed from which it is derived was long known to the Moguls of India, who used the seeds mixed in tea offered to a difficult opponent. It is also used as a pain-killing drug which largely replaced chloroform and other older anesthetics of a bygone era.
Opium was popular in all of the fashionable clubs of Victorian London and it was no secret that men like the Huxley brothers used it extensively. Members of the Orphic-Dionysus cults of Hellenic Greece and the Osiris-Horus cults of Ptolemaic Egypt which Victorian society embraced, all smoked opium; it was the "in" thing to do. Entering the University of Vermont (which was located in Burlington) at the early age of fifteen, Dewey still evinced no special talent, until in his senior year he led his class and won the highest marks on record in philosophy. This transformation in Dewey's scholastic record was occasioned by his accidental perusal of a physiology textbook written by Thomas Henry Huxley, the foremost supporter in England of Darwin's theory of evolution. Awakened to the excitement of the effort to understand the world, and beginning to doubt his early moralistic beliefs, Dewey delved into philosophy for an answer to the conflict between revealed dogma and the findings of science. This was the beginning of Dewey's lifelong task of reconciling these two poles. In 1890 Fabian Havelock Ellis saw the leadership of women as a source of renewal. Aldous Leonard Huxley was born on July 26, 1894 in Surrey, England. He was "the beloved son of English intellectual aristocrats." His father Leonard was an editor and minor poet. His mother was the former Julia Arnold. A granduncle, Matthew Arnold (1822-1888) was a celebrated poet and critic. Aldous's Round Table father, Thomas Henry Huxley (1825-1895), was a Victorian scientist, essayist, defender of Darwin (evolutionist) and an agnostic. T.H. Huxley, on the eve of the publication of Darwin's The Origin of Species, promised to support Darwin's thesis. However, he warned that he had burdened his argument unnecessarily. He was so vociferous in his defense that he earned the nickname "Darwin's Bulldog."
He once said: "It is the customary fate of new truths to begin as heresies and to end as superstitions."
Huxley's Man's Place in Nature (1863) embroiled him in further controversy; it espoused the idea that the closest relatives of humans are the anthropoid apes. Having studied under Professor Thomas H. Huxley, H. G. Wells went on to teach school in North Wales. Huxley described his Church of Humanity as "Catholicism minus Christianity". To Huxley the only good Church was a dead Church. Huxley adopted David Hume's philosophy. He professed belief in God and cut the ground from under every argument for his existence.
Sir Leslie Stephen in the Dictionary of National Biography pronounced him "the acutest thinker in Great Britain in the 18th Century" and exposed the clerical libels about his last hours. Huxley was not only one of the most decorated men of science of his time, but all his life an outspoken agnostic (a term which he himself coined to avoid the harshness of atheist). Pious folk spread a myth about conversion late in life but his son Leonard shows in his biography of his father that all this is nonsense. A few months before he died he said to his son:
"The most remarkable achievement of the Jew was to impose on Europe for 18 centuries his own superstitions."
Patrick Geddes (1854- ) held summer meeting at the Edinburgh school, utilizing the Outlook Tower to preach his three S's;
1) sympathy for people and the environment 2) synthesis of all factors relating to a case 3) synergy -- the combined cooperative action of everyone involved (Boardman 15)
1) sympathy for people and the environment
2) synthesis of all factors relating to a case
3) synergy -- the combined cooperative action of everyone involved
(Boardman 15)
As Meller wrote,
"Geddes felt that he had formed a new philosophy of education which incorporated the many methods he had learned from Le Play, Comte, Huxley, and others during his endeavors into biology civics, and geography."
In 1898 Havelock Ellis reported to the Smithsonian Institution:
"If it ever should chance that the consumption of mescal becomes a habit, the favorite poet of the mescal drinker will certainly be Wordsworth. Not only the general attitude of Wordsworth, but many of his most memorable poems and phrases cannot -- one is almost tempted to say -- be appreciated in their full significance by one who has never been under the influence of mescal. On these grounds it may be claimed that the artificial paradise of mescal, though less seductive, is safe and dignified beyond its peers."
At the turn of the century, both William James and Havelock Ellis undertook their study of hallucinogenic agents. James used nitrous oxide (apparently to avoid bad stomach cramps) while Ellis used the newly discovered peyote. In 1902 William James of Harvard "redefined religion" as an "experience rather than a dogma." The Bakers were prominent in supporting eugenics and utopian-feudalist social engineering. Captain James A. Baker, so the story goes, the grandfather of the current boss of Foggy Bottom, solved the murder of his client William Marsh Rice and took control of Rice's huge estate. Baker used the money to start Rice University and became the chairman of the school's board of trustees. Baker sought to create a center for diffusion of racist eugenics, and for this purpose brought in Julian Huxley of the infamous British oligarchical family to found the biology program at Rice starting in 1912.
Huxley was the vice president of the British Eugenics Society and actually helped to organize "race science" programs for the Nazi Interior Ministry, before becoming the founding director general of UNESCO in 1946-48. James A. Baker III (CFR) was born April 28, 1930, in the fourth generation of his family's wealth. Baker holdings have included Exxon, Mobil, Atlantic Richfield, Standard Oil of California, Standard Oil of Indiana, Kerr-Mcgee, Merck and Freeport Minerals.
Baker also held stock in some large New York Banks during the time that he was negotiating the Latin American debt crisis in his capacity as secretary of the treasury. Secretary Baker's family wealth and power came from their representing Harriman, the international oil companies and George Bush's Zapata Petroleum, all sponsors of the population control, or ban-dark-babies movement. This movement is synonymous with the Scottish Rite. Aldous Huxley's mother died when he was 14. Three years later an eye infection left him blind for 18 months. Although his sight improved, he was plagued with poor vision all his life. He was 6'4", thin and fragile. His head was high-brow and had a lot of hair. "He tended to be a spiffy dresser, wearing suits in subtle colors, a watch and chain, sometimes a reptile tie, other times a wide-brimmed hat." He studied at Eton and than at Balliol College, Oxford.
He wanted to become a Doctor but an eye infection nearly blinded him which caused him to abandon this dream and probably accounted for the bitterness in his writings and his aversion to the human body. In 1916 he took a degree at Oxford. He was friendly with Lord Philip and Lady Ottoline Morrell -- famous leaders of the Bloomsbury group. It was at their country place that he met D.H. Lawrence.
Huxley said Eliot was "curiously dull -- as a result, perhaps, of being, at last, happy in his second marriage." In 1919 he married Maria Nys, a Belgian refugee. They had one son -- Matthew. As a journalist, Huxley wrote and published two volumes of symbolist poetry. "Following the war, he flirted briefly with the then-triumphant, predominantly English imagist movement." Before the end of 1918, in the first postwar election, Captain Sitwell was contesting Scarborough as a Liberal candidate for Parliament. He lost the election, but secured 8,000 votes to his Tory opponent's 12,000. Simultaneously, Sitwell entered upon another new career as joint literary editor, with Herbert Read, of the quarterly Art and Letters. A few years before, Sitwell had known no contemporary writers but his own sister; he was now ideally placed to remedy that lack.
With his brother, he had taken a London house on Swan Walk where there were more pictures than furniture, and French paintings hung even in the kitchen. Sitwell's guest list at Swan Walk, and later at 2 Carlyle Square, resembled the index to a history of modern literature. Arnold Bennett, in his diary for June 15, 1919, approved of the dinner and the decor he had found at Swan Walk and noted that his dining companions included, among others, W. H. Davies, Lytton Strachey, Siegfried Sassoon, Aldous Huxley, Leonard Woolf, and Herbert Read.
The sexual perversions of Bloomsbury were a deliberate statement of moral autonomy. Homosexuality, according to Keynes and his sometimes lover Lytton Strachey, was the supreme state of existence, "passing Christian understanding," and superior to heterosexual relationships. The ethical superiority of homosexuality lay in its striking opposition to the external morals of the Victorian era, and the moral laws of God. As Deacon surmised, Keynes' homosexuality was ultimately a rebellion "against the Puritan ethic: he hated Puritanism in any form..."
Although Keynes attended religious services until in his teens, as he once explained to a friend, he was confident that Huxley had exploded the whole Christian religion. He wrote another friend, telling him that Christians were irrational and exhibited stubborn pride: "They don't want to admit that a position they've taken up with confidence is untenable."
According to Keynes, Christianity represented "tradition, convention and hocus pocus." As a young man at Cambridge Keynes became involved with a secret society called the "Apostles" which included such notables as Lytton Strachey, Roger Fry, Clive Bell and Leonard Woolf. It was an association that was to last a lifetime.
Many of the Apostles, including Keynes, were later to become regular members of the "Bloomsbury Group" named after the Bloomsbury district of London where the group regularly met. The Apostles (and later the Bloomsbury group) were quite taken by the philosophy of G. E. Moore, a once fervent Quaker who, losing his faith, became a thorough philosophical skeptic. As Keynes's biographer, Robert Skidelsky, concluded, as far as the Bloomsburries were concerned, the value of Moore's book, Principia Ethica, lay chiefly in its "rational justification of a rearrangement of values." They were looking for an ethic which would release them from the duties required of Victorian gentlemen. And in their eyes, Moore's book provided just this. In 1921 Huxley turned to more creative writing. After two volumes of short stories, he began a series of novels. His sophisticated satire caused him to become known as a prophet of doom for the cult of the amusing. His reputation was firmly established by his first novel, Crome Yellow (1921), a witty satire on the intellectual pretensions of his time. In 1923 Aldous Huxley, 29, English novelist-critic published Antic Hay. His most celebrated novel -- Point Counter Point -- appeared ten years following World War I. The hero was said to have been modeled after D.H. Lawrence. Huxley met the writer Gerald Heard who imparted to him a quasi mystical notion of the evolutionary development of human consciousness. Between 1923-1933 Huxley visited Italy where he saw much of Lawrence and became "a kind of disciple." In 1933 he edited the letters of the dead Lawrence. Huxley's early comic novels, which include Antic Hay (1923), Those Barren Leaves (1925), and Point Counter Point (1928), demonstrated his ability to dramatize intellectual debate in fiction; he discussed philosophical and social topics in a volume of essays, Proper Studies (1927). In 1924 a collection of Huxley's poetry was published. John Middleton Murry (1889-1957) was prominent on the English literary scene for three decades. Murry was editor of the literary journals the Athenauem (1919-21) and Adelphi (1923-48), the husband of writer Katherine Mansfield, and friend to such luminaries as Aldous Huxley and D. H. Lawrence. Huxley caricatured Murry as the pretentiously "spiritual" editor, Burlap, in his novel Point Counter Point (1928). In the 1930s, biology professor Hermann J. Muller lost his job (under the otherwise liberal president H.Y. Benedict) because he had written for a Marxist student publication without obtaining permission. Muller later won the Nobel Prize, at Indiana in 1946, for work he did at Texas that led to blood plasma transfusions, which saved tens of thousands of lives in World War II. A politically naive leftist in the 1930s, Muller won Julian Huxley's praise as "the greatest living geneticist." In both fiction and nonfiction Huxley became increasingly critical of Western civilization in the 1930s. Brave New World (1932), his most celebrated work, is a bitterly satiric account of an inhumane society controlled by technology, in which art and religion have been abolished and human beings reproduce by artificial fertilization. Huxley's distress at what he regarded as the spiritual bankruptcy of the modern world led him toward mysticism and the use of hallucinatory drugs.
Huxley, suggested a world where people went to the "feelies" rather than the movies, where men were attended by "pneumatic girls" (a phrase borrowed from T.S. Elliot's poem "Whispers of Immortality") and where reproduction would be controlled by the state. The perfect psychedelic, soma, was described:
"Euphoric, narcotic, pleasantly hallucinant -- all the advantages of Christianity and alcohol, none of their drawbacks."
In the preface to his Brave New World Revisited (p. viii) Huxley wrote,
"If I were now to rewrite the book, I would offer a third alternative... the possibility of sanity... Economics would be decentralist and Henry Georgian."
In 1931 Aldous Huxley read Phantastica and wrote a scathing condemnation of "all existing drugs" in the Chicago Herald Examiner. He concluded that the solution was not prohibition but the search for better drugs. In 1933 the Tales of Jacob by Thomas Mann were published. In October 1933 the magazine Esquire began publication and included writing by Hemingway and Aldous Huxley. In 1934 Aldous Huxley visited Central America. In 1936 Aldous Huxley published Eyeless in Gaza. He termed chastity "the most unnatural of the sexual perversions." Frederick Matthias Alexander -- one of the founders of the Alexander method -- was used by Huxley as his model for the anthropologist Miller. The novel portrayed its central character's conversion from selfish isolation to transcendental mysticism. In 1936 Huxley's transition to mystical writings began.
"Because Crowley had extensive contacts with the European secret societies his specialist knowledge was used by the SIS [Britain's Secret Intelligence Service] for 'Black Propaganda' purposes. Crowley had confided to the writer Aldous Huxley in 1938 when they met in Berlin that Hitler was a practicing occultist. He also claimed that the OTO had helped the Nazis to gain power."
The story of the first LSD is well-known -- of concoction in 1938, and then discovery of dramatic psychoactive effects when Alpert Hofmann five years later swallowed 1/4,000ths of a gram (250 micrograms). Christopher Isherwood (1904-) was a follower of Swami Prabhavananda, a playwright and fiction writer who translated the Bhagavad-Gita and other Hindu writings from Sanskrit. He converted from Anglicalism to Hinduism. During World War II he was a pacifist and served alternative service with the Quakers. He became a convert to the Vedanta Society. Huxley became interest in "eclectic mysticism" at a time of the intense fundamentalist religious revival in California. Huxley borrowed from Wells the phrase "Doors in a Wall." This referred to the use of drugs in death cult rituals. Huxley called drugs "modifiers of conscience" and said that hallucinatory drugs had been used since the earliest recorded history. Huxley dabbled in drugs such as the Mandrake plant. Many who have been encouraged to use drugs have died prematurely through overdosing or by suicide. In a 1940 letter Aldous Huxley said that he was "profoundly optimistic about individuals and groups of individuals existing on the margins of society." Orwell contested Huxley's vision in Brave New World because he believed that it did not provide an accurate picture of the mechanisms of power in the totalitarian present and future. In a 1940 essay, Orwell wrote:
"Mr. Aldous Huxley's Brave New World was a good caricature of the hedonistic Utopia, the kind of thing that seemed possible and even imminent before Hitler appeared, but it had no relation to the actual future. What we are moving towards at this moment is something more like the Spanish Inquisition, and probably far worse, thanks to the radio and the secret police."
In an article on "Prophecies of Fascism" in the same era, Orwell made similar claims:
"In Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, a sort of post-war parody of the Wellsian Utopia, these tendencies are immensely exaggerated. Here the hedonistic principle is pushed to its utmost, the whole world has turned into a Riviera hotel. But though Brave New World was a brilliant caricature of the present (the present of 1930), it probably casts no light on the future."
Huxley wrote to his brother Julian that social transformation could be obtained by an attack on all fronts -- economic, political, educational and psychological. In 1942 Aldous Huxley published The Art of Seeing. Gerald Heard first visited Black Mountain with his friend Aldous Huxley in 1937. He was so taken with the idea of learning communities that he went on to found Trabuco College in Ventura, California, in 1942. Huxley's writing culminated in a rather complete exposition of the mystical way in 1945 -- The Perennial Philosophy. At the close of World War II he wrote:
"Between ivory towerism on the one hand and direct political action on the other lies the alternative of spirituality. And between the totalitarian fascism and totalitarian socialism lies the alternative of decentralism and cooperative enterprise--the economic-political system most natural to spirituality."
What some called "dream killers" Huxley called "bad artists."
"[(S)uch propagandists] accomplish their greatest triumphs, not by doing something, but by refraining from doing. Great is truth, but still greater, from a practical point of view, is silence about truth. By simply not mentioning certain subjects... totalitarian propagandists have influenced opinion much more effectively than they could have done by the most eloquent denunciations, the most compelling of logical rebuttals. -- Aldous Huxley, Brave New World (1946, revised forward).
"[(S)uch propagandists] accomplish their greatest triumphs, not by doing something, but by refraining from doing. Great is truth, but still greater, from a practical point of view, is silence about truth. By simply not mentioning certain subjects... totalitarian propagandists have influenced opinion much more effectively than they could have done by the most eloquent denunciations, the most compelling of logical rebuttals.
-- Aldous Huxley, Brave New World (1946, revised forward).
Huxley, who moved to southern California in 1947, was primarily a moral philosopher who used fiction during his early career as a vehicle for ideas; in his later writing, which consists largely of essays, he adopts an overtly didactic tone. Like his contemporaries D. H. Lawrence and George Orwell, Huxley abhorred conformity and denounced the orthodox attitudes of his time.
The enormous range of his intellect and the pungency of his writing make him one of the most significant voices of the early 20th century.
"As political and economic freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends... to increase. And the dictator... will do well to encourage that freedom. In conjunction with the freedom to daydream under the influence of dope, the movies and the radio, it will help to reconcile his subjects to the servitude which is their fate." -- Aldous Huxley, Brave New World (1948).
"As political and economic freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends... to increase. And the dictator... will do well to encourage that freedom. In conjunction with the freedom to daydream under the influence of dope, the movies and the radio, it will help to reconcile his subjects to the servitude which is their fate."
-- Aldous Huxley, Brave New World (1948).
Huxley wrote a letter to Orwell in 1949 stating:
"The philosophy of the ruling minority in 1984 is a sadism which has been carried to its logical conclusion by going beyond sex and denying it. Whether in actual fact the policy of the boot-on-the-face can go on indefinitely seems doubtful. My own belief is that the ruling oligarchy will find less arduous and wasteful ways of governing and of satisfying its lust for power, and that these ways will resemble those which I described in Brave New World."
The Societe Europeenne de Culture, a think tank created in 1950 through the efforts of Venetian intelligence operative Umberto Campagnolo, has for the past three decades pulled intellectuals from both East and West into organizing for an "international culture," based on rejecting the existence of sovereign nations.
The SEC counted among its members the cream of the postwar intelligentsia:
Adam Schaff of Poland Bertolt Brecht of East Germany Georg Lukas of Hungary Boris Paternak of the Soviet Union Stephen Spender and Arnold Toynbee Benedetto Croce and Norberto Bobbio Julian Huxley and Thomas Mann Francois Mauriac, and Jean Cocteau
Adam Schaff of Poland
Bertolt Brecht of East Germany
Georg Lukas of Hungary
Boris Paternak of the Soviet Union
Stephen Spender and Arnold Toynbee
Benedetto Croce and Norberto Bobbio
Julian Huxley and Thomas Mann
Francois Mauriac, and Jean Cocteau
Later, the SEC launched the Third World national liberation ideology. Andrijah Puharich was born in 1918. He received medical degree from Northwestern University in 1947. Reportedly a friend of Aldous Huxley. In 1952 he had first contact with "the Nine", the highest minds in the universe, through a medium. Aldous Huxley's 1952 book, The Devils of Louden, was inspired by a 1632 incident in Louden, France. Jeanne des Anges, a nun, suffered nightmarish erotic hallucinations after being spurned by Cure Grandier -- who was burned at the stake. Psychedelics (hallucinogens) such as mescaline (derived from the cactus peyote) and psilocybin (which comes from a Mexican mushroom) were originally eaten by primitive men to induce visions. Huxley, in his "remarkable work," reported his experiences with mescaline. Huxley's persuasive book was one of the first modern works to put forward any kind of argument for experimental drug taking and it is generally believed to have been responsible for sparking off the wave of semi-intellectual interest in drugs which finds its expression in today's so-called 'drug culture.' In 1952, the first International Congress of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) was held in Amsterdam. IHEU represents more than 3 million members in 30 countries. The early sponsors of IHEU were also instrumental in founding the United Nations.
They included Lord Boyd Orr -- first head of the World Food Organization, Sir Julian Huxley, first head of UNESCO and Canadian physician Brock Chisholm, first head of the World Health Organization. In 1952 British psychiatrists Humphrey Osmond and John Smythies published "A New Approach to Schizophrenia," theorizing that when the body is confronted with extreme anxiety it produces the hallucinogen adrenochrome, inducing schizophrenic or psychotic reactions.
The next year they flew out to bring Aldous Huxley a vial of mescaline. Huxley later cabled his editor that mescaline was "the most extraordinary and significant experience available to human beings this side of the Beatific Vision." He then dashed off The Doors of Perception in a month.
In The Doors of Perception he wrote:
"The man who comes back through the Door in the Wall will never be quite the same as the man who went out. He will be wiser but less cocksure, happier but less self-satisfied, humbler in acknowledging his ignorance yet better equipped to understand the relationship of words to things, of systematic reasoning to the unfathomable Mystery which it tries, forever vainly, to comprehend."
In 1953 Robert Hutchins quoted Aldous Huxley:
"But in actual historical fact, the spread of free compulsory education, and, along with it, the cheapening and acceleration of the older methods of printing, have almost everywhere been followed by an increase in the power of ruling oligarchies at the expense of the masses." Hutchins added: "The case of the much-vaunted literacy of the Japanese provides striking confirmation of the conclusions of Toynbee and Huxley that the spread of universal, free, compulsory education had promoted the degradation and enslavement of men."
"But in actual historical fact, the spread of free compulsory education, and, along with it, the cheapening and acceleration of the older methods of printing, have almost everywhere been followed by an increase in the power of ruling oligarchies at the expense of the masses."
Hutchins added: "The case of the much-vaunted literacy of the Japanese provides striking confirmation of the conclusions of Toynbee and Huxley that the spread of universal, free, compulsory education had promoted the degradation and enslavement of men."
Humphry Osmond experienced mescaline in the early 1950s, and in May 1953 provided this to Aldous Huxley in Los Angeles. Huxley's report to Osmond, The Doors of Perception, remains a milestone in psychedelic history, as does the word that Osmond coined -- "psychedelic." Currently, Osmond works as a psychiatrist in Tuskaloosa, Alabama. He is coauthor of The Hallucinogens (Academy Press) and How to Live with Schizophrenia, co-editor of Psychedelics: The Uses and Implications of Hallucinogenic Drugs (Anchor Books) and author of Understanding Understanding.
Osmond's interest in this field grew out of a fascination with schizophrenia and alcoholism. He went into the Navy once he had qualified for medicine at Guys Hospital in London in 1942. Oscar Janiger had his first LSD experience in 1954. After a training in botany, he entered the fields of teaching and psychiatry. He has lectured at UC Irvine and the California College of Surgeons, was research director for the Holmes (holistic health) Foundation, maintains a private practice, and founded the Alpert Hofmann Foundation. He administered LSD to 875 people, many from the creative communities of Beverly Hills and Hollywood. In 1955 Huxley's first wife died. In 1956 he married Laural Archera. In Heaven and Hell (1956) he described the use of mescaline to induce visionary states of mind. In its May 13, 1957 issue, Life ran a feature called "Seeking the Magic Mushroom." R. Gordon Wasson, a J.P. Morgan Vice-President, and his wife, recounted their 1955 visionary adventures among "psilocybe cultists in darkest Mexico." Huxley called Bill Wilson, the co-founder of AA (Alcoholics Anonymous) "the greatest social architect of our time." Syanon, a revolutionary rehabilitation program using AA, was founded in Ocean Park, California by Chuck Dederich in 1958 and spread as drug use expanded. In his Brave New World Revisited, Aldous Huxley in 1958 described a society in which war had been eliminated and where "the first aim of the rulers is at all costs to keep their subjects from making trouble." He described a likely future:
"The completely organized society, the scientific caste system, the abolition of free will by methodical conditioning, the servitude made acceptable by regular doses of chemically induced happiness, the orthodoxies drummed in by nightly courses of sleep teaching..."
He predicted non-violent tyranny:
"Under the relentless thrust of accelerating over-population and increasing over-organization, and by means of ever more effective methods of mind-manipulation, the democracies will change their nature; and quaint old forms -- elections, parliaments, Supreme Courts and all the rest -- will remain. The underlying substance will be a new kind of non-violent totalitarianism. All the traditional names, all the hallowed slogans will remain exactly what they were in the good old days. Democracy and freedom will be the theme of every broadcast and editorial -- but democracy and freedom in a strictly Pickwickian sense. Meanwhile the ruling oligarchy and its highly trained elite of soldiers, policemen, thought-manufacturers and mind-manipulators will quietly run the show as they see fit."
"Under the relentless thrust of accelerating over-population and increasing over-organization, and by means of ever more effective methods of mind-manipulation, the democracies will change their nature; and quaint old forms -- elections, parliaments, Supreme Courts and all the rest -- will remain. The underlying substance will be a new kind of non-violent totalitarianism.
All the traditional names, all the hallowed slogans will remain exactly what they were in the good old days. Democracy and freedom will be the theme of every broadcast and editorial -- but democracy and freedom in a strictly Pickwickian sense. Meanwhile the ruling oligarchy and its highly trained elite of soldiers, policemen, thought-manufacturers and mind-manipulators will quietly run the show as they see fit."
In 1958, in Brave New World Revisited , Huxley wrote a diatribe against over-population and over-consumption. His comment about Aryan drug use as part of an elite religious ceremony seems to be historic in nature. There was a priesthood that was very knowledgeable about the effects of drugs. The Isis cult seems to have also used drugs in its productions. Hitler thought he talked to "the evil one" while on a mescaline trip. When alone or with his inner circle, did he engage in religious ceremonies, evocations or incantations? Or did they use drugs to get "high?" The Huxley quote does suggest drugs and religious worship were connected as early as the Aryan conquest of India. The word "Iran" derives from "Aryan." In Brave New World Revisited Huxley contested Orwell:
"George Orwell's 1984 was a magnified projection into the future of a present that contained Stalinism and an immediate past that had witnessed the flowering of Nazism. Brave New World was written before the rise of Hitler to supreme power in Germany and when the Russian tyrant had not yet got into his stride. In 1931, systematic terrorism was not the obsessive contemporary fact which it had become in 1948, and the future dictatorship of my imaginary world was a good deal less brutal than the future dictatorship so brilliantly portrayed by Orwell. In the context of 1948, 1984 seemed dreadfully convincing. But tyrants, after all, are mortal and circumstances change. Recent developments in Russia and recent advances in science and technology have robbed Orwell's book of some of its gruesome versimilitude. A nuclear war will, of course, make nonsense of everybody's predictions. But, assuming for the moment that the Great Powers can somehow refrain from destroying us, we can say that it now looks as though the odds were more in favor of something like Brave New World than of something like 1984."
"George Orwell's 1984 was a magnified projection into the future of a present that contained Stalinism and an immediate past that had witnessed the flowering of Nazism. Brave New World was written before the rise of Hitler to supreme power in Germany and when the Russian tyrant had not yet got into his stride. In 1931, systematic terrorism was not the obsessive contemporary fact which it had become in 1948, and the future dictatorship of my imaginary world was a good deal less brutal than the future dictatorship so brilliantly portrayed by Orwell. In the context of 1948, 1984 seemed dreadfully convincing.
But tyrants, after all, are mortal and circumstances change. Recent developments in Russia and recent advances in science and technology have robbed Orwell's book of some of its gruesome versimilitude. A nuclear war will, of course, make nonsense of everybody's predictions. But, assuming for the moment that the Great Powers can somehow refrain from destroying us, we can say that it now looks as though the odds were more in favor of something like Brave New World than of something like 1984."
Neil Postman commented:
"What Orwell feared were those who would ban books. What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one. Orwell feared those who would deprive us of information. Huxley feared those who would give us so much that we would be reduced to passivity and egoism. Orwell feared the truth would be concealed from us. Huxley feared the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance. Orwell feared we would become a captive culture. Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture, preoccupied with some equivalent of the feelies, the orgy porgy, and the centrifugal bumblepuppy. As Huxley remarked in Brave New World Revisited, the civil libertarians and rationalists who are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny 'failed to take into account man's almost infinite appetite for distractions.' In Brave New World, they are controlled by inflicting pleasure. In short, Orwell feared that what we hate will ruin us. Huxley feared that what we love will ruin us."
"What Orwell feared were those who would ban books. What Huxley feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there would be no one who wanted to read one. Orwell feared those who would deprive us of information. Huxley feared those who would give us so much that we would be reduced to passivity and egoism. Orwell feared the truth would be concealed from us. Huxley feared the truth would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance. Orwell feared we would become a captive culture. Huxley feared we would become a trivial culture, preoccupied with some equivalent of the feelies, the orgy porgy, and the centrifugal bumblepuppy.
As Huxley remarked in Brave New World Revisited, the civil libertarians and rationalists who are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny 'failed to take into account man's almost infinite appetite for distractions.' In Brave New World, they are controlled by inflicting pleasure. In short, Orwell feared that what we hate will ruin us. Huxley feared that what we love will ruin us."
Purchased in 1960 for $285, this small substance may be said, without exaggeration, to have perpetrated the most significant cultural revolution of our time. John Beresford, a pediatrician of British extraction working in New York City, purchased gram H-00047.
Before long, it passed into the systems of Donovan, Paul McCartney, Keith Richards, Paul Krassner, Frank Barron, Huston Smith, Aldous Huxley, Paul Lee, Richard Katz, Pete La Roca, Charlie Mingus, Saul Steinberg, Timothy Leary, Richard Alpert, Ralph Metzner, Alan Watts, Jean Houston and perhaps a thousand others.
"There is some possibility," commented Michael Hollingshead, a main distributor, "that my friends and I have illuminated more people than anyone else in history."
In the summer of 1960 Timothy O'Leary used magic mushrooms for the first time in Mexico. He realized his old self was dead, collaborated with Dr. Richard Alpert and discussed the meaning and implication of the new world with Aldous Huxley. In the 1960-1961 school year Leary and Alpert began a series of experiments on Harvard graduate students -- using pure psilocybin -- and with a physician in attendance.
When students at Harvard were given mushrooms, they,
"came up with accounts of mystical experiences which largely duplicated accounts of mystical experiences of Christian saints they had read in books. Takers of mescaline commonly have similar experiences to Huxley's, just as Huxley's were similar to those reported by earlier experimenters like Havelock Ellis."
In 1960 Leary tried psychedelic mushrooms while on a vacation in Cuernavaca, Mexico. The experience opened up a new world for him:
"I realized I had died, that I, Timothy Leary, the Timothy Leary game, was gone. I could look back and see my body on the bed. I relived my life, and re-experienced many events I had forgotten. More than that, I went back in time in an evolutionary sense to where I was aware of being a one-celled organism. All of these things were way beyond my mind."
Leary was in Mexico in August, 1960, intending to work on a book.Around 1961 Aldous Huxley said at a U.S. State Department-sponsored conference at the California Medical School in San Francisco:
"There will be in the next generation or so... a pharmacological method of making people love their servitude and producing dictatorship without tears, so to speak. Producing a kind of painless concentration camp for entire societies so that people will in fact have their liberties taken away from them but will rather enjoy it, because they will be distracted from any desire to rebel -- by propaganda, or brainwashing, or brainwashing enhanced by pharmacological methods. And this seems to be the final revolution."
Timothy Leary recalled his conversation with Huxley who told him to be a brain-drug cheerleader for evolution like he and his grandfather before him. However, Huxley told Leary that the obstacle to the evolution was the Bible:
"Drugs that open the mind to multiple realities inevitably lead to a polytheistic view of the universe. We sensed that the time for a new humanist religion based on intelligence, good-natured pluralism and scientific paganism had arrived."
Huxley was among those who encouraged Michael Murphy and Richard Price in their decision to open Esalen in 1961. Murphy and Price wrote to Huxley, who believed science and mysticism were complementary activities, and whose elucidation of "the perennial philosophy" and ideas about the human potential shaped Esalen's work for the next 32 years. It is said that Aldous Huxley, that modern of moderns, went to a few Ouspensky meetings in London. Eventually Huxley settled for Gerald Heard who drew heavily on Eastern philosophy.
In Huxley we may find a symptom of a desperate tendency to turn in our crisis to ideas and teachings that stand outside the stream of Western culture. At Huxley's suggestion, Murphy and Price sought out Gerald Heard, philosopher and mystic, who cast a deep Irish spell with accounts of people and events that revealed the secrets of human transformation. An afternoon with Heard in the summer of 1961, in which Heard displayed his characteristic enthusiasm and sense of a cosmic mandate, confirmed Esalen's two founders in their decision to start a seminar center.
In the first three years of the Big Sur human-potential center, the lecturers included Alan Watts, Arnold Toynbee, Gerald Heard, Linus Pauling, Carl Rogers, Norman O. Brown, Paul Tillich, Rollo May and Carlos Castaneda. Esalen's first brochure "flew under the title of a series of 1961 lectures by Aldous Huxley: 'Human Potentialities.'" Like the hero in Maugham's The Razor's Edge, Michael Murphy went to India seeking enlightenment. He lived for eighteen months at the Aurobindo Ashram in Pondicherry -- an institute combining the wisdom of East and West. Michael Murphy and Richard Price decided in 1961 to open the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, California as a center for humanistic psychology. The institute, which was opened in 1962, conducts workshops, seminars, and symposia. The late Hindu Geru Sri Aurobindo has a follower by the name of Maurice Strong who has connections with David Rockefeller, the Rothschilds and other groups of the money elite. One evening in 1962, Abraham Maslow was forced to seek shelter at the nearest residence due to fog:
"He arrived in time for an Easlen study group that was unpacking a case of twenty copies of his latest book."
In 1962 Billy and Tommy Hitchcock purchased Millbrook. It became "the shrine where acid was sanctified." Tommy had become friends with Leary toward the end of the 1950's. In the Summer of 1962, Billy Hitchcock met Dick Alpert at his mother's house and recalled:
"I found Dick funny -- he understood how to laugh at himself, and he had a background similar to mine. He was Jewish, his father was head of the Hartford and New Haven Railroad. He opened me up. He got me to read Thomas Mann, Salinger... he was already having his problems with Harvard, and he had established this community in Mexico, Zihuatanejo. Tommy and Peggy went down there, and Peggy told me I should try a psychedelic. I said, 'Why?' She said, 'That's a good question, try it, you've got nothing to lose.'"
Mescaline was the drug of choice at that time. In 1962 Look Magazine did a special issue on California. Aldous Huxley was cited as among the Californians who were calling for a new national constitutional convention. In 1962 Allan Watts published The Joyous Cosmology: Adventures in the Chemistry of Consciousness with a forward by Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert. On November 27, 1962, Leary and Alpert stated:
"If you announce your discovery you're in trouble. If you discuss it quietly with friends you have a cult. If you try to apply these potentials within the conventional, institutional format you are side-tracked, silenced, blocked or fired... For the first time in American history and for the first time in the Western world since the Inquisition there now exists a scientific underground and foundation largesse, over a hundred responsible professional researchers are volunteering their time, their own money, risking their reputations and their legal freedom to research consciousness without institutional support."
In 1963 Richard Deacon published the 310-page City of Man: The Hopes and Possibilities of a World Culture which included a discussion of the ideas of Toynbee, Teilhard de Chardin, Mumford, Jaspers, Wells, Huxley, Northrop, and many others. In 1963 the Beatles appeared on the Ed Sullivan show. They combined rock and mystical music, long hair, and the worship of Hinduism. The guru who was sought after by the Beatles was Maharishi Mahesh (TM) Yogi. Drugs were suggested in many of their songs: "Yellow Submarine" (a "submarine" is a "downer"), "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds" (the initials of the main words are LSD), "Hey Jude" (a song about the drug known as methadrine), "Strawberry Fields" (where opium is grown to avoid detection) and "Norwegian Wood" (a British term for marijuana).
John Lenon's song "Imagine",
attacked religion ("Imagine there's no heaven, It's easy if you try, No hell below us, Above us only sky")
espoused a do you own thing philosophy ("Imagine all the people, Living for today")
attacked nationalism ("Imagine there's no countries")
attacked religion ("It is isn't hard to do, Nothing to kill or die for and no religion too")
called for the abolition of private property ("Imagine no possessions")
supported a new international order ("I wonder if you can, No need for greed or hunger, A brotherhood of man, Imagine all the people, Sharing all the world")
advocated a one-world government ("You may say I'm a dreamer, But I'm not the only one, I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will be as one")
Lennon called for abolition of private property and then left his Japanese-born widow a $250 million estate. In 1963 Harold Asher wrote Experiments in Seeing -- a story of his search for mystical experience through LSD. Initially LSD was classified as a "new" drug with few restrictions on its experimental use. In 1963 it was reclassified as an "investigational new drug" and made available only to carefully selected investigators. In 1963 Timothy O'Leary founded the International Federation for Internal Freedom (IFIF) to encourage research on psychedelic substances.
The institute, however, died for lack of outside interest or support. In the Good Friday Study W.H. Clark -- a Leary follower, found that subjects given psilocybin before attending religious services were more likely to have a life-changing or mystical experience. In March 1963 Leary and Alpert began recruiting for the IFIF. They attracted the "young, the idealistic, the eccentric, and the rebellious..."
They lectured in Los Angeles to promote the International Federation for Internal Freedom. Leary left without notifying university authorities and went to Mexico to arrange the lease of a hotel in Zihuatanejo for use as an IFIF summer colony.In May 1963, two months after Leary's Mexico departure, Richard Alpert publicly attacked the administration's stand on denying psilocybin to undergraduates. He was fired by Harvard on May 27. Major issues at Harvard that caused friction for Leary included no doctor being present during experiments, use of undergraduates and drug sessions being conducted off campus or even in Leary's house. In the Spring of 1963 Leary and Alpert were dismissed from their academic positions. Leary was fired for not attending his classes. He admitted the non-attendance but thought he was on approved leave. Alpert separated from Leary and lectured on the West coast while Leary settled in at an estate in Millbrook, New York -- owned by a wealthy supporter of Leary's beliefs.The IFIF colony was in operation by June 1963. The stay was a short one. After an unassociated murder, a newspaper in Mexico City began a campaign against the group and the Mexican government ordered the group out. In the summer of 1963, Leary rented Millbrook from Wall Streeter and Lehman Brothers's Billy Hitchcock for $500 a month. Leary and Alpert holed up in Millbrook, New York. In Volume I of the Psychedelic Review, in the Fall of 1963, Leary and Ralph Metzner did an article on Herman Hesse -- the German novelist whom the group adopted as its literary prophet. Arnold Toynbee, in the September 29, 1963 edition of The New York Times, discussed an alliance between the Soviets and the Fabian-controlled West to face the yellow menace of Red China. Before his death JFK said the Country,
"is in dire peril..." and that it might not "survive his term in office."
Evelyn Lincoln, JFK's secretary for 12 years, quoted him as saying:
"If they are going to get me, they will get me even in Church" (meaning anywhere).
Mary Pinchot Meyer told Timothy Leary:
"They could not control him (JFK) anymore."
The use of peyote in religious ceremonies was declared legal in California in 1964. In 1964, the Leary-Alpert manual for the psychedelic experience, based on the Tibetan Book of the Dead, was published.In 1964 Augustus Owsley Stanley III tried LSD for the first time as a 29-year-old Berkley dropout.None of the ideas of the "Now Generation" of 1964 were less than thirty years old.By 1964 Ken Kesey and his Merry Prankster friends were touring the country in a Day-Glo-painted school bus. Later they gave Acid Test parties and supplied LSD which was still legal. Music was provided by the Grateful Dead at later Acid Tests. The Grateful Dead began at 710 Ashbury street as an acid-rock group with electric guitarist Jerry Garcia, 24, drummer Mickey Hart, Ron "Pigpen" McKernan and others. The name was taken from an Oxford dictionary notation on the burial of Egyptian pharoahs. McKernan died of alcohol and drugs. In 1964 and 1965, George Leonard traveled around the country working on "what he thought would be the most important story of his career. It would run in two or three subsequent issues of Look, he anticipated, and he intended to call it 'The Human Potential.'
"The article, which eventually ran to some 20,000 words, was never published by Look. It was considered "too long and too theoretical."
In 1965 Esalen's Michael Murphy (student of Eastern philosophy and humanistic psychology) joined forces with Look's George Leonard (Student of Social and Political Movements in the U.S.). In the Fall of 1965, B.F. Skinner, S.I. Hayakawa, Watts, Carl Rogers and J.B. Rhine led seminars. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Esalen became particularly popular as the scene of various exploratory approaches to personality development and consciousness expansion. These types of activities have remained the institute's focus. A former President of the American Psychological Association has said that Esalen is potentially "the most important educational institute in the world." Alice Bailey, the most prolific writer for the New Age, wrote in 1965:
"The Illuminati have ever led the race forward; the knowers, mystics and saints have ever revealed to us the heighth of racial and individual possibilities."
The Psychedelic Reader came out in 1965 as an anthology to the 1964 manual. Alpert gradually dropped away from the group while Leary became even more outspoken.
In 1965 alone the British sent 136 ships with oil and other war good that docked at the port of Haiphong. At a time when America had 300,000 troops in South Vietnam, England had sent only 11 police instructors and a professor of English. Standard and Shell were taking 33,000 barrels of oil daily out of North Thailand and refining it at Bangehak and Srivacha. While Thailand officials lied, the Bangkok News said that foreign companies had taken 40,000,000 barrels of oil out of the Burma ground in 1965. President De Galle of France blasted the Standard Oil "policy" in Vietnam.
Standard Oil had operations in North Vietnam and Burma. The Shelf Coast extended from Hong Kong to Vietnam, Burma and Thailand. No news stories revealed that thousands of barrels of oil were being taken out by Standard Oil every day. Moody's Manual of Industrials listed nearly 300 foreign operations but not a line about the Thailand wells. Once this was revealed, the next issue eliminated all mention of foreign operations. It was first said there was no oil industry in Thailand. Later authorities advised that the production of oil was a major industry.In 1965 Allen Ginsburg used the phrase "flower power" at a Berkley rally. The flower antiwar theme appeared in "Where Have All the Flowers Gone?" and "San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)" and in fashions. The Hells Angels had attacked the marchers calling them "Un-American." A 1965 article by San Francisco Examiner reporter Michael Fallon used the term "hippie." The beats used the term hippie as a term of disdain. While hippies used drugs for the sake of experience, beats had used drugs for the sake of art. They also preferred rock music to jazz. While beatniks had adopted from the black culture, the hippies looked to Native Americans. Deerskin moccasins, silver and turquoise jewelry and headbands were adopted as well as ingesting peyote buttons. Identification with Native Americans occurred along with referring to communal groups as tribes.
The multimedia show "America Needs Indians" was a big hit in 1965. By May 1965, Owsley Stanley III was filling orders for LSD from around the country from his Los Angles laboratory. He financed the rock group The Grateful Dead, the San Francisco Oracle underground newspaper, joined up with Ken Kesey and became the chief supply chemist for the Acid Tests. In August 1965, Ken Kesey invited the San Francisco chapter of the Hells Angels to a party at his home in La Honda. He introduced them to LSD. They became heavily involved with both supply and demand until the end of the 1960s. In December 1965 Leary's 16-year-old daughter was found at customs with a pillbox in her brassiere that contained a smidgen of marijuana. An indictment was made against Leary for attempted to smuggle marijuana out of the country without paying a duty on it.
Billy Hitchcock set up the Leary defense fund. The case was taken to the Supreme Court where it was thrown out on the grounds of double jeopardy. After this incident, Leary "let Millbrook really start to run downhill." Ken Kesey rolled up in a bus with the Merry Pranksters and it was rumored that 80 Hell's Angels were aboard. Death cults existed four thousand years ago. The resurgence of death cults began with the arrival of Aldous Huxley in America. He copied the formula from the Isis-Orsiris cult, the Dionysus cult and the rituals of Tibetan and Egyptian high priests. A principal disciple of his was Timothy Leary. LSD, which was made by Hoffman La Roche, was introduced into America by Huxley and Bertrand Russell. After working with Leary at Harvard, Huxley and Leary created the International Federation for Internal Freedom Psychadelic Training Center in Mexico.
Students at this "invisible university" had lessons from the Tibetan Book of the Dead. At the center it was taught that "death is a transition, it is only a change in form, in some cases a happy release."
Among the death cults are,
the Luciferian Society the Dionysus Cult the Osiris-Horus cult of ancient Egypt the Freemasons the Urania Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn the Children of the Sun witchcraft demon worshipers Aquarians who venerate Caligula
the Luciferian Society
the Dionysus Cult
the Osiris-Horus cult of ancient Egypt
the Freemasons
the Urania Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn
the Children of the Sun
witchcraft
demon worshipers
Aquarians who venerate Caligula
Death cults are devil-worshiping in purpose and all end in death for someone. In their first seminar on Human Potentiality, led by Willis Harman, every program leader was involved with LSD research: Adams, Harman, Gregory Bateson, Gerald Heard, Paul Kurtz, and Myron Stolaroff. Other drug-culture luminaries, such as Timothy Leary and Richard Alpert, taught at Esalen, and various psychedelics were used by the staff and students, although drug-use was not officially endorsed. Strangely, the Institute was never raided by the authorities. Charles Manson and members of his family played an impromptu concert at Esalen three days before their massacre at the Sharon Tate house. In Island Huxley's society relied upon the mind for healing. His last novel featured extended families, learning by doing and imagining and commerce was bowed to ecology.
Huxley died on November 22, 1963, in Los Angeles. This was the exact same day that JFK was assassinated. This was also the day that C.S. Lewis died.
Huxley died on November 22, 1963, in Los Angeles.
This was the exact same day that JFK was assassinated.
This was also the day that C.S. Lewis died.
He "asked for and received an injection of LSD on his deathbed..."
"His time on earth spanned the end of the Victorian Age and the beginning of the Age of Aquarius, and he was always in the vanguard of, never afraid to investigate (and even to believe in) the strange and the mystical, yet he never lost respect for everyday reality."
He authored 47 books, including Crome Yellow and After Many A Summer Dies the Swan. Huxley spent forty years living in and working in Hollywood collaborating with Adorno and Horkheimer. At the height of their popularity, the Beatles went to India -- the land of the Hindus. Aldous Huxley wrote about soma -- an intoxicating drink for the Brahmins. In fable it was personified as a god -- representing the moon. Dr. Louis Jolyon West is a director of AFF. An expert in brainwashing for the Air Force and the CIA, West first achieved fame from his MK-Ultra feat -- he injected LSD-25 into an elephant and killed it. West researched "the psychology of dissociated states" for the CIA, using LSD and hypnosis. His friend {Aldous Huxley} suggested to Dr. West during an MK-Ultra experiment that West hypnotize his subjects prior to administering LSD, in order to give them "post-hypnotic suggestions aimed at orienting the drug-induced experience in some desired direction."
Huxley was friends with Dr. Louis "Jolly" West, and suggested that West try combining LSD with hypnosis. Dr. West was called upon by the government to examine Jack Ruby, who had killed Lee Harvey Oswald before Oswald could stand trial for his alleged role in the assassination of President John Kennedy. Huxley was also interested in parapsychology, and lectured on the topic at Duke University. It was at Duke where Huxley had contact with J.B. Rhine, who reportedly did experiments in psychic phenomena for the CIA and the Army. Longtime CIA doctor Louis J. West once treated Aldous Huxley. It was West's diagnosis that Ruby was a "candidate suitable for treatment" that allowed him to be put on drugs. In 1964, Lilly held seminars at the Esalen Institute, and was Group Leader and Associate in Residence from 1969 to1971. Laura Huxley, Aldous's widow, sponsored a foundation devoted to "conscious childbirth" called Our Ultimate Investment. During the radical 1960s, the late Leary and Richard Alpert did extensive research on LSD and other psychedelic elements -- in collaboration with Aldous Huxley, Allen Ginsberg and others. The pair escaped to a mansion in upstate New York. While Leary continued to ride naked on horses, Richard Alpert went to India in 1967 and met his spiritual teacher -- Neem Karoli Baba. He came back with a new name -- Baba Ram Dass ("servant of God").
He then began teaching Kali-worship (goddess of thieves) to Harvard students. After six years or so of getting high, visited India. There he met a 23-year-old man named Bhagwan Dass. Eventually, after fasting, yoga and meditation, Alpert was introduced to Dass' s guru -- Maharaji. He then changed his name to Ram Dass, returned to the U.S. and wrote Be Here Now. When he became Ram Dass, he forsook his Jewish upbringing and was estranged from his family. His never-named father was a wealthy lawyer, President of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad and founder of Brandeis University.
The recently sick Ram Dass is said to be known and loved all over the world as the self-described "HinJew." Dismissed from Harvard with Leary in 1963, Dass was involved with the Zihuatanejo Project, the IFIF (The International Foundation for Internal Freedom) and the Castalia Organization at Millbrook, all of which were attempts to realize a psychedelic utopia as presented in Island by Aldous Huxley, and Glass Bead Game by Herrman Hesse.Michael Kahn was an important associate of Timothy Leary during the mid-1960s, taking LSD trips with him and providing him with privacy periodically in those turbulent years. He has observations of related activities at Harvard and Millbrook. Kahn lectures at UC San Anselmo. His writings include The Tao of Conversation and Between Therapist and Client. LSD was not made illegal until 1966. In 1966 Leary founded the League of Spiritual Discovery.In 1966 Leary was arrested for the possession of marijuana at the Millbrook, New York estate and appeared at three congressional hearings. He told Sen. Ted Kennedy that "LSD is not a dangerous drug." In that same year he began his own religion -- the "League of Spiritual Discovery" -- with LSD as the sacrament. Its slogan was: "Turn On, Tune In, and Drop Out." G. Gordon Liddy, local Assistant District Attorney, used as his slogan for the Republican nomination for Congress: "Throw Hitchcock Out of Millbrook." In 1967 the New York Phoenix House established seminar rap session techniques. It was started by five former drug addicts. The musical Hair opened in 1967. The song "Age of Aquarius" talks about the influence to be felt at the end of the century at "the dawning of the Age of Aquarius." The Age of Pisces lasts from 0 A.D. to 2000 A.D. The Age of Aquarius begins at 2000 A.D. to last until 4000 A.D.By 1967 many of the Haight-Ashbury residents had turned from acid to speed. Beginning in 1967, Timothy Leary said in lectures delivered around the country: "turn on (to the scene), tune in (to what is happening), and drop out (of high school, college, grad school...)." In 1967 Owsley was arrested in his lab and sentenced to three years in jail. In 1967 the Beatles accompanied the Maharishi to India and announced their intention to give up drugs and follow his teachings.In 1967 a court decision, involving Timothy O'Leary, held that the use of marijuana was not essential to the practice of Hinduism. By 1967 a large drug population had emerged in San Francisco where Ken Kesey had handled out LSD. In 1967 a Tavistock-sponsored "Conference on the Dialectics of Liberation" was chaired by Dr. R.D. Laing. Two of the American delegates were Angela Davis and Stokley Carmichael.
"By 1967, with the cult of 'Flower People' in Haight-Ashbury and the emergence of the anti-war movement, the United States was ready for the inundation of LSD, hashish, and marijuana that hit American college campuses in the late 1960s."
The 1967 Be-In was referred to as "A Gathering of the Tribes." The January 1967 Human Be-In was followed by the "Summer of Love" in Haight-Ashbury. Bill Graham staged concerts at the Fillmore six days a week. The event was coordinated by Allen Ginsberg, Timothy Leary and Jerry Rubin. Some 10,000,
"heard speeches, danced to music by San Francisco bands, chanted Hindu and Buddhist rituals, ate free turkey sandwiches (some laced with LSD), and generally celebrated the birth of the countercultural community."
In April 1967, warnings were issued and businesses were closed in Haight-Ashbury after a huge influx of hippies. In response, as a form of protest, Hippies marched shouting "Haight is love." Over 30 people were arrested in the demonstration. The Grateful Dead hosted an Om Festival featuring om chanting with the music for 2,500 during the Summer of Love.During the winter 1967-1968, LSD reached a peak. Its use declined thereafter. Mescaline, which offers less of an inner experience but a more intense sensory show than LSD, became the hallucinogen of choice for many previous LSD users. Esalen became "real" when the New York Times ran an article on it on December 31, 1967 in the Sunday Magazine. Hot baths, which may be taken in the nude, "are considered a rite of passage into a new life." In April 1968 Columbia University was seized by a group of students for several days. James Kunen, one of the student leaders, wrote in The Strawberry Statement that a report on the SDS convention mentioned men from Roundtable International trying to buy radicals.
"These men are the world's leading industrialists and they convene to decide how our lives are going to go... They offered to finance our demonstration in Chicago. We were also offered Esso (Rockefeller) money. They want us to make a lot of radical commotion so they can look more in the center as they move to the Left."
Jerry Rubin once said:
"The hip capitalists have some allies within the revolutionary community: longhairs who work as intermediaries between the kids on the street and the millionaire businessmen."
During the fall of 1969 $85,000 in Carnegie Foundation funds were paid to the SDS. An undercover SDS police informant said he had,
"wondered where the money was coming from for all this activity, and soon discovered it came through radicals via the United Nations, from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ford Foundation, United Auto Workers, as well as cigar boxes of American money from the Cuban embassy."
Brandeis University was the head of all SDS chapters throughout the United States. The founders and some of its top administrators have been "violently anti-religious and have left wing associations." In 1969, after a series of arrests on drug charges, Leary was sentenced to a minimum security prison in California. The Woodstock Music and Art Fair drew 300,000 in August 1969 to Bethel, New York. Performers included Jim Hendrix, Joan Baez, Ritchie Havens, the Jefferson Airplane, the Who, the Grateful Dead, Carlos Santana and others. Abbie Hoffman called it "the first attempt to land man on the earth." On December 6, 1969, the Altamont Music Festival outside San Francisco attracted 300,000 to a free Rolling Stones concert. The Hells Angels administered several beatings and stabbed a boy to death when he tried to reach the stage.In 1970 Margaret Mead said:
"There are no elders who know what those who have been reared within the last 20 years know about the world into which they were born."
She called for psychologically "qualified" parents to rear all the children -- leaving the less qualified parents free to explore their inner selves and one another. Margaret Mead said in 1970:
"This break between generations is wholly new: it is planetary and universal."
In 1970, just before the Nixon/Kissinger invasion of Cambodia (that produced a storm of antiwar protests on and off campuses), the Bilderbergers discussed the "future function of the university in our society."
Participants included Paul Samuelson, Graham T. Allison (later Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard University) and Andrew Cordier (Dean of the School of International Affairs at Columbia University 1962-68) (also acting president of Columbia in 1968 during the student occupation). In 1970 Governor Reagan acknowledged the possibility of a "bloodbath" to put down campus unrest.After being organized in New York by a small group concerned with pollution and smog, the first Earth Day took place on April 22, 1970. Activities around the country included car "funerals," traffic blockades and clean-up programs. On Earth Day, April 22, 1970, Norman Cousins (CFR), the longtime president of the United World Federalists (later the World Federalist Association), proclaimed,
"Humanity needs world order. The fully sovereign nation is incapable of dealing with the poisoning of the environment... The management of the planet... requires a world government."
The UNESCO Biosphere Conference and ecological activism produced the first Earth Day in 1971. Both Earth day and the beginning of the Army-McCarthy hearings share the date April 22 (Lenin's birthday). In September of 1970 Leary escaped from prison by walking away from prison. He turned off a flame he had ignited ten years before. "A real cop-out." In 1973 Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead received a years probation in New Jersey for possession of LSD, marijauna and cocaine. Ronald David Laing (1927-1989) overcame beatings by his father by retreating into "a point in space with no dimensions." He devoured all the classics within his reach from the Bible through Mill and Voltaire to Darwin and Huxley. By the age of 14, he was reading Plato and knew he was interested in psychology. In 1956 he went for psycho-analytic training at the Freudian-oriented Tavistock Institute of Human Relations in London.
From 1962-1965, Laing directed the Langham Clinic in London and began to experiment with mind-expanding substances as a means of accelerating transcendental trips to the inner self. In 1967, a conference sponsored by psychiatry's National Association for Mental Health (NAMH) in the United Kingdom was devoted to "The Role of Religion in Mental Health."
The Reverend George Croft, a lecturer in experimental psychology, said that distressed persons were seeking psychotherapists rather than ministers because as Jung suggested, ministers were not expected to possess "psychological knowledge or insight." Also speaking was psychiatrist Dr. R. D. Laing from the Tavistock Institute who suggested that the clergy get more in touch with the "egoic experience," and seminaries and theological colleges should discuss this as a church component. In the early 1970's he studied under Buddhist and Hindu spiritual masters in Ceylon, India and Japan, and lectured throughout the U.S. Laing was a vegetarian with a respect for life such that he could not even bear to cut the grass.In 1975, Princeton Professor Richard A. Falk (CFR) laid out a map in On the Creation of a Just World terming the seventies as the decade of "consciousness raising," the eighties the decade of "mobilization" and the nineties the decade of "transformation." In 1975 the "Masters" told Alice Bailey that the time was right for the open propagation of "The Plan." In 1975 the War in Vietnam officially ended. In 1975 the "Brain/Mind Bulletin" magazine was first published by Marilyn Ferguson as "a vehicle for pulling... information on mind and consciousness together." In the summer of 1976, Bruce traveled back to Europe and to England. He met and had lunch with Albert Hofmann on the Rhine river. Hofmann told him stories of meetings with Huxley and Leary and other noted figures in the "psychedelic movement" as it was known back then. He also met and became friends with Michael Hollingshed, author of The Man Who Turned on the World, an autobiography by this trickster who was responsible for turning both the Beatles and Tim Leary onto their first trips.
Hollingshead conveyed a substantial amount of gram H-00047 to Harvard University and to London, after coming to the U.S. as an official working for British-American cultural exchange. Hollingshead's activities centered in Manhattan, London and Katmandu. He wrote much about psychedelics in a variety of head magazines.Returning from Europe in 1976, Bruce left Los Angeles for Santa Cruz, California, where he was to spend most of the next two decades. Bruce escorted Hofmann and his wife Anita during their tour of Santa Cruz. Also there were other noted psychedelic researchers, including Oscar Janiger, William McGlothlin, Ron Siegel and others.
At a dinner, Hofmann toasted his pcychedelic grandchildren -- many of them there, including Leary, Ram Dass and Metzer, the noted Harvard trio who had collaborated on research and together wrote The Psychedelic Experience, based on the Tibetan Book of the Dead. Bruce had done a lot of footwork, hiking through the redwood campus of the University of California Santa Cruz, setting up the logistics. Now tired of this massive organizational effort, Bruce went off with his friend Danny, who together drank a bottle of psilocybin extract.
Having just read Island by Huxley and Intelligence Agents by Timothy Leary, some of the circuits in Bruce's mind began to perceive new connections and synchronicities. As he walked with his friend down to the windswept beaches, he thought about his original expectations for the 'Sixties. He then believed the counter-culture would become the dominant culture in some revolution of love and ecstasy.At Jonestown, Guyana, 914 followers of paranoid pastor the Rev. Jim Jones obeyed his order to join him in death by drinking Kool-Aid laced with cyanide. Mass-murderer Jim Jones cooperated with Bertrand Russell and Aldous Huxley indirectly through the Peace Pledge Union. The New Agers were proud to claim Jim Jones and his People's Temple as their own until his Guyana murder-suicide fiasco.
After that, they never mentioned him again except to point to him as an example of the dangers of religious fundamentalism. When Jones moved to San Francisco and purchased land to build a new Temple, it is said the land had been the site of the Alpert Pike Memorial Temple. In November 1978 over 900 people died at the People's Temple in Guyana. At Jonestown, it was intially assumed that the large vat of drink containing poison was the cause of the suicides. Autopsies showed that 700 of the 900 had died of gunshots wounds and strangulation -- not poison. "They had not committed suicide at all; they were brutally mass murdered."
According to Jack Anderson, a tape made by Rev. Jones mentioned a man named Dwyer. Richard Dwyer was the deputy chief of the U.S. mission to Guyana and accompanied Rep. Leo Ryan to investigate the encampment. The Congressman was murdered but Dwyer was not affected. He claimed that Jones' reference to him was "mistaken." In 1959 he had began working for the CIA and had "no comment" when Anderson asked if he was a CIA agent."
Among the drugs found at Jonestown was chloral hydrate -- used in the CIA's secret mind control program known as "MK ULTRA." Did the CIA slaughter 900 at Jonestown to cover up a massive-scale drug experiment? In the late 1970's, Esalen became involved with an Englishwoman named Jenny O'Connor, who claimed to be in psychic contact with the Nine, Dick Price and other members of the Esalen staff became increasingly dependent on the Nine, to the point of listing them as program leaders and members of the Esalen Gesalt Staff in brochures. In the 1970's, Mike Murphy became interested in Russian parapsychology, and visited the country to meet experimenters in this field. This led to a close connection between Esalen and some Russian officials, who set up an exchange program. Lasting into the 1980's, this exchange was dubbed "hot-tub diplomacy".
John Mack was reportedly involved in this exchange. Esalen also held seminars in quantum physics, and was the birthplace of the Physics/Consciousness Research Group. Other individuals who have come to lead seminars at Esalen at one time or another include Carlos Castaneda, Dutch psychic Peter Hurkos, (trunk murderer, fugitive and Earth Day founder) Ira Einhorn, Rollo May, Jack Sarfatti, John Lilly, Terrance McKenna, Ian Wickramasekera, and Charles Tart. Werner Erhard was also close with Michael Murphy and Esalen. In February, 1979, Lilly attended an LSD reunion party, hosted by Dr. Oscar Janiger, along with Laura Huxley, Sidney Cohn, Willis Harman, Alfred Hubbard, and Timothy Leary, among others. Huxley was turned on to mescaline by Dr. Humphrey Osmond, who in turn was introduced to the drug by Alfred Hubbard. Hubbard personally guided Huxley through his second mescaline trip and his first experience with LSD. In 1979 Mark Satin's New Age Politics book was published by Delta with the back jacket comment of the Toronto Star: "He's already miles ahead of the academics and intellectuals who cling to the Marxist vision." Satin prefers to work for a "planetary guidance system" as opposed to "a world government". His guidance system would "regulate society, not organize it." In his 1980 book, 'Cosmos', Carl Sagan wrote:
"Every nation seems to have its set of forbidden possibilities, which its citizenry and adherents must not be permitted to think about... in the United States, socialism, atheism, and the surrender of national sovereignty."
In 1980 Alvin Toffler discussed an "emerging globalist ideology" in The Third Wave:
"This consciousness is shared by multinational executives, long-haired environmental campaigners, financiers, revolutionaries, intellectuals, poets, and painters, not to mention members of the Trilateral Commission. I have even had a famous four-star general assure me that 'the nation-state is dead.' Globalism presents itself as more than an ideology serving the interests of a limited group. Precisely as nationalism claimed to speak for the whole nation, globalism claims to speak for the whole world. And its appearance is seen as an evolutionary necessity -- a step closer to a 'cosmic consciousness' that would embrace the heavens as well."
In 1980 Marilyn Ferguson described the New Age consciousness revolution,
"The Aquarian Conspiracy represents the Now What. We have to move into the unknown: The known has failed us too completely. Taking a broader view of history and a deeper measure of nature, The Aquarian Conspiracy is a different kind of Revolution, with different revolutionaries. It looks to the turnabout in consciousness of a critical number of individuals, enough to bring a renewal of society."
The New Age was boosted to a global movement by Marilyn Ferguson's book -- considered to be "The New Age Bible." It promotes reincarnation as a pillar of the New Age belief system, giving it modern day credibility. Ferguson's book, furthering the worldview of a "new society," soon became a text in college courses, and was published in eight countries in ten translations. Of the responses obtained by Marilyn Ferguson, the individual most often named as influential by Aquarian Conspirators was Pierre Teilhard de Chardin who wrote in 1931:
"The only way forward is in the direction of a common passion, a conspiracy."
Aldous Huxley was named second, followed by Carl Jung and Abraham Maslow. Aldous Huxley believed that the U.S. religious revival would begin with drugs -- not evangelists. He pointed out that even temporary self-transcendence would shake the entire society to its rational roots:
"Although these new mind-changers may start by being something of an embarrassment, they will tend in the long run to deepen the spiritual life of the communities..."
He predicted the impact on religion:
"From being an activity concerned mainly with symbols, religion will be transformed into an activity concerned mainly with experience and intuition -- an everyday mysticism."
Willis Harman's "Changing Images of Man" has been too technical for most so the service of Marilyn Ferguson was obtained to make it more easily understood. "The Age of Aquarius" heralded nude stage shows and a song which made the top of the charts: "The Dawning of the Age of the Aquarius" swept the globe. Many current Evangelical leaders will be well-suited for leadership in the global church/state alliance. They are already Politicians of the Radical Center as described by Marilyn Ferguson:
"... they don't take strident positions. Their high tolerance of ambiguity and their willingness to change their minds leave them open to accusations of being arbitrary, inconsistent, uncertain or even devious."
On April 25, 1982, New Age leader Benjamin Creme said:
"What is the Plan? It includes the installation of a new world government and a new world religion under Maitreia."
On April 25, 1982, full-page newspaper display ads in some 20 major cities trumpeted: "THE CHRIST IS NOW HERE." Towards the end of the ad it read: "WITHOUT JUSTICE THERE CAN BE NO PEACE." This was virtually the exact militant phrase heard on TV coverage of the L.A. riots: "No Justice, No Peace!" In 1983 Esalen sponsored a Soviet-American satellite linkup with cooperation of the Soviets and the Academy of Sciences. Forty years after his discovery of the soul-manifesting effects of LSD, Hofmann traveled to the UC campus at Santa Barbara for a psychedelic conference where he described what he had learned. The following day, May 15, 1983 at the Lhasa Club in Los Angeles, he joined Oscar Janiger, Laura Huxley, John Kramer, Ron Siegel and other psychedelic researchers at a "Caucus for the Restoration of LSD as a Scientific Tool." In 1984, the United States withdrew its membership in UNESCO. In 1984 O'Brien explained to Smith: "We have cut the links between child and parent..." In the mid-1980s, a lecture series by the late Joseph Campbell promoted the idea of the wisdom of primitive myths to more than 100 million people worldwide. He said the cult of Osiris-Isis was as valid as the Christ "myth." In 1985 Norman Cousins stated: "World government is coming, in fact, it is inevitable." Nostradamus foretold that,
after the last battle the Grand Monarque of "Trogan blood and Germanic heart" (King of Blois and Belgic) will rise and reign from Avignon -- ancient city of Cathars and Popes -- watched over by the Black Virgin. Before 1999 he will restore the church to "pristine pre-eminence" through Rome. The Barque of St. Peter will be destroyed.
Nostradamus has been termed a propagandist for the Merovingians. His parents, converted Jews, adopted a masculine form of Our Lady as their name. America's legal and education elites have replaced the Western Christian tradition with a humanistic system that holds:
1) There is no transcendent, personal God 2) Both the world and man result from evolutionary forces, which continue to direct them 3) Societal institutions such as family and civil law have no theistic origins 4) Theistically ordained absolute standards do not exist for the guidance of either individuals or institutions 5) The Bible is false and useless as a source of guidance for man in his attempt to progress 6) Man's self-effort is the primary, if not sole, tool available to him in his attempt to progress
1) There is no transcendent, personal God
2) Both the world and man result from evolutionary forces, which continue to direct them
3) Societal institutions such as family and civil law have no theistic origins
4) Theistically ordained absolute standards do not exist for the guidance of either individuals or institutions
5) The Bible is false and useless as a source of guidance for man in his attempt to progress
6) Man's self-effort is the primary, if not sole, tool available to him in his attempt to progress
In 1987 Texe Marrs outlined 13 key characteristics of the New Age:
1) A One World Religion, Political and Social order 2) Revival of the Babylon religion (mystery cults, sorcery, occultism and immorality) 3) A New Age Messiah 4) Spirit Guides 5) The rallying cries of World Peace, Love and Unity 6) New Age teachings spread around the globe at all levels of society 7) Spread of the apostacy that Jesus is neither God nor the Christ 8) All religions as a part of the New World Religion 9) Discrediting and abandonment of Christian principles 10) Children seduced and indoctrinated into New Age dogma 11) Flattery being use to entice the world to believe that man is Divine God 12) Science and the New World Religion will become one 13) Elimination of Christians that will resist the Plan
1) A One World Religion, Political and Social order
2) Revival of the Babylon religion (mystery cults, sorcery, occultism and immorality)
3) A New Age Messiah
4) Spirit Guides
5) The rallying cries of World Peace, Love and Unity
6) New Age teachings spread around the globe at all levels of society
7) Spread of the apostacy that Jesus is neither God nor the Christ
8) All religions as a part of the New World Religion
9) Discrediting and abandonment of Christian principles
10) Children seduced and indoctrinated into New Age dogma
11) Flattery being use to entice the world to believe that man is Divine God
12) Science and the New World Religion will become one
13) Elimination of Christians that will resist the Plan
The New Age has nine doctrinal corner-stones:
1) Eastern mysticism 2) Mind control through psychology 3) Mystery cosmic teachings 4) The worship of science as revelation 5) Instantaneous Evolution 6) Hedonism 7) Pantheism 8) Selfism 9) Leadership by spiritually superior beings
1) Eastern mysticism
2) Mind control through psychology
3) Mystery cosmic teachings
4) The worship of science as revelation
5) Instantaneous Evolution
6) Hedonism
7) Pantheism
8) Selfism
9) Leadership by spiritually superior beings
In 1987 Christopher Hyatt, head of the Order of the Golden Dawn, said in an interview:
"The Guards of the Ancient era... the ones dying right now... are not willing to give up their authority so easily. I foresee, on a mass scale, that the New Age is not going to come into being as so many people believe and wish to believe. I see it as requiring a heck of a lot of blood, disruption, chaos, and pain for a mass change to occur."
James Shelby Downard looked forward to the time beyond Must Be, to the era which will witness the return of could be. After the coming cataclysmic chastisement has run its cleansing course, we will once again wish upon a star and dream a destiny free of the Masonic chain that at present binds our nation as tightly as the hangman's rope once bound the rotted cadavers on Tyburn Tree.
Barbara Marx Hubbard, in The Book of Co-Creation wrote:
"Out of the full spectrum of human personality, one-fourth is electing to transcend... One-fourth is destructive [and] they are defective seeds. In the past they were permitted to die a 'natural death.'... Now as we approach the quantum shift from the creature-human to the co-creative human -- the human who is an inheritor of god-like powers -- the destructive one-fourth must be eliminated from the social body... Fortunately, you are not responsible for this act. We are. We are in charge of God's selection process for planet Earth. He selects, we destroy. We are the riders of the pale horse, Death."
In 1987 Esalen celebrated its 25th anniversary. Among the innovative thinkers named as shaping its major principles was Aldous Huxley, Alan Watts, Arnold Toynbee, Fritz Perls, B.F. Skinner, and James Pike (an Episcopal Bishop). Environmental curricula and children's ecology books echo those scary scenarios envisioned by the "extreme activists." Many blame parents for exaggerated global problems.
"They may deny it," says Captain Eco, the high flying superhero of a large picture book called Captain Eco and the Fate of the Earth, "but... they're stealing your future from under your noses."
Captain Eco takes two children on a tour of the damaged earth. After showing them all the familiar abuses in the worst possible light, the captain points them to the final mega-problem:
"and that's YOU." "We're not that bad, are we?" they respond. "Not you personally, but the whole human race. There are so many of you... Either you go on... polluting all over the planet... Or you can work toward a better world... Will you help me?"
"and that's YOU."
"We're not that bad, are we?" they respond.
"Not you personally, but the whole human race. There are so many of you... Either you go on... polluting all over the planet... Or you can work toward a better world... Will you help me?"
Following the death of his wife, Howard O'Brien decided to move the family to Richardson, a town in Dallas County in northeastern Texas, a transition that Rice has likened to "stepping through TV to the world of America we had seen from afar." And indeed Anne Rice seemed to have led a far more conventional life in Texas than she had in Louisiana.
At Richardson High School she was the features editor on the student newspaper, and, after her graduation in about 1959, she entered Texas Woman's University, in Denton (according to another source, she attended North Texas State University, also located in Denton), where she joined the ranks of those young people who were questioning traditional religious and societal values.
"I remember walking into Voertman's bookstore and seeing all those racks of books," she recalled during an interview with Stewart Kellerman for the New York Times (November 7, 1988). "All this stuff I wasn't supposed to read as a Catholic. Aldous Huxley, Jean-Paul Sartre, Alpert Camus. I had to know what was in those books."
Stanford environmentalist Stephen Schneider said:
"We'd like to see the world a better place... to get some broad-based support, to capture the public's imagination. That, of course, entails getting loads of media coverage. So we have to offer up scary scenarios, make simplified, dramatic statements and make little mention of any doubts we might have... Each of us has to decide what the right balance is between being effective and being honest."
The teachings of Jiddhu Krishnamurti can be found in books, films, university courses, workshops, progressive schools that he started, and a dynamic foundation that bears his name. As of 1990, his works have been translated into forty-seven languages, including Swahili; though them his influence is felt worldwide. His ideas, which revolved around the centrality of individual consciousness free from the programmed filters of religion and culture, attracted people as varied as George Bernard Shaw, Greta Garbo, Bertrand Russell, Aldous Huxley, Joseph Campbell, Albert Einstein, Alan Watts, Jackson Pollack, Anne Morrow Lindbergh, Christopher Isherwood, and Charlie Chaplin.In 1990, Bruce began meeting with a student organization at Stanford University called Higher Consciousness. After presenting himself and sitting in on presentations by Stanley Krippner, Nina Graboi, Dennis McKenna and others, Bruce and the leaders of Higher Consciousness planned and put on a major conference, "The Bridge: Linking the Past, Present and Future of Psychedelics."
Keynoters were Timothy Leary and Terence Mckenna, and John Lilly, Howard Reingold, Robert Anton Wilson, Francis Huxley (nephew of Aldous), Stanley Krippner, Stephen Gaskin, and Arthur Hastings were among the 60 presenters. After the conclusion of this 1991 conference, Bruce planned his next event, Bicycle Day, celebrating the 50th anniversary of the discovery of LSD in 1993.
Bicycle Day was the name Bruce gave to the "50th Anniversary of the discovery of LSD," and Bruce in collaboration with Rick Doblin of MAPS and a student organization at his old almamatter, UC Santa Cruz, put on a celebration in the school's Performing Arts theater. Sharing the podium with Bruce and Rick Doblin was Oscar Janiger, founder of the Alpert Hofmann foundation. Videos of Humphry Osmond, Alpert Hofmann and Ken Kesey were shown, and also re-enactment of the last LSD trip of Aldous Huxley was performed by Laura and Francis Huxley. The crisis of environmentalism has been developed as a means to bring about a one-world government:
"Through a skillful wedding of socialism, New Age Pantheism and a manufactured climate of despair over a 'dying planet', these powerful individuals (David Rockefeller and Edmund de Rothschild) are creating a climate of fear which will see mankind not only accept, but demand, a one-world government to deliver us from environmental apocalypse. This one-world government will, of course, be the capstone of their planned New World Order. "In searching for a new enemy to unite us, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine and the like would fit the bill," declared members of the Club of Rome in a sweeping 1991 report on global governance. "All these dangers are caused by human intervention... The real enemy, then, is humanity itself."
"Through a skillful wedding of socialism, New Age Pantheism and a manufactured climate of despair over a 'dying planet', these powerful individuals (David Rockefeller and Edmund de Rothschild) are creating a climate of fear which will see mankind not only accept, but demand, a one-world government to deliver us from environmental apocalypse. This one-world government will, of course, be the capstone of their planned New World Order.
"In searching for a new enemy to unite us, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine and the like would fit the bill," declared members of the Club of Rome in a sweeping 1991 report on global governance. "All these dangers are caused by human intervention... The real enemy, then, is humanity itself."
In the Summer of 1991 Tal Brooke quoted Brock Chisolm, director of the UN World Health Organization in SCP Journal:
"To achieve world government, it is necessary to remove from the minds of men their individualism, loyalty to family traditions, national patriotism, and religious dogmas."
On May 4, 1992, Gorbachev received the first Ronald Reagan Freedom award from Reagan at the former president's presidential library in Simi Valley. Two days later Gorbachev made a speech in Fulton, Missouri at Westminister College calling for a greatly strengthened UN and a new "global government" for a multipolar world. In mid-1992, Mikhail Gorbachev was sponsored in his U.S. trip by the Esalen Institute. The institute has long called for the creation of a Council of Wise Persons (Brain Trust).
While on his tour, Gorby took time out for a private meeting with Henry Kissinger. Gorbachev, on May 6, 1992, went to Fulton, Missouri (the site of Winston Churchill's "Iron Curtain" speech) to call for the creation of a new "global government." He also denounced "exaggerated nationalism" while calling for a "global international security system." The worst of the dangers, said the former President of the Soviet Union, is ecological.
He listed "global climatic shifts, the greenhouse effect, the ozone hole, acid rain, contamination of the atmosphere, soil and water by industrial and household waste, the destruction of forests..." He praised the Club of Rome as "authoritative."
This is the organization that wants to limit the earth's birth rate and redistribute the world's wealth.
"However, I believe that the new world order will not be fully realized unless the United Nations and its Security Council create structures, taking into consideration existing United Nations and regional structures, which are authorized to impose sanctions and make use of other measures of compulsion, especially when the rights of minority groups are being particularly violated."
On May 8, 1992, Gorbachev told the Chicago CFR that:
"The New World Order means a new kind of civilization."
Gorbachev wants the UN to set up a "Brain Trust" of the world's elite to "push global politics toward detente." This would include "Nobel Laureates, diplomats and churchmen." In early May, 1992, UN Secretary -- General Ghali told a meeting of the American Association of Newspaper Publishers that a permanent UN military force was needed to "protect the peace" and "ensure human rights" and intervene "at the local and community levels." Al Gore, who wrote a book to spread a similar message, said,
"We must make rescue of the environment the central organizing principle for civilization." In Earth in the Balance, he calls for a "worldwide education program" and a "panreligious perspective" based on "the wisdom distilled by all faiths."
In 1993, Vice President Al Gore also established the National Religious Partnership for the Environment -- with its offices also located at the Cathedral. The Partnership is composed of the U.S. Catholic Conference, the National Council of Churches, the Evangelical Environmental Network, and the Consultation of Jewish Life and the Environment -- and has received a multimillion-dollar commitment from The Rockefeller Foundation and others to fund a major ecumenical/eco-spiritual broadside aimed at churchgoers. Every Roman Catholic Church in America will soon be the object of ruling class largesse. Laurence Rockefeller is also said to have assisted the publication of The Coming of the Cosmic Christ by former Dominican priest turned New Age Episcopalian Matthew Fox.In January 1993 CBS featured an hour on the comeback of LSD. A week or two later, fashion reports said the sixties/seventies look was back -- including bell bottoms and dresses exposing the belly. Richard M. Cohen, Senior Producer of CBS political news, has said:
"We're going to impose our agenda on the coverage by dealing with issues and subjects that we choose to deal with."
Lyndon LaRouche is a big booster of ecumenicism; curiously, both LaRouche and the Masonic-Theosophist organization World Goodwill have recently been singing the praises of a 15th century Catholic ecumenicist, Cardinal Nicholas of Cusa. In this climate, even Herbert "British-Israel" Armstrong's Worldwide Church of God has reversed its course, and its offending doctrines as well, to become properly ecumenical --- certainly a telling point! Ram Dass gave a three-hour talk in 1994 at the "Celebration Of the Birth Centenary of Aldous Huxley." It ended with an ecstatic Dance of Shiva on stage with Laura Huxley and Tai Ji Master Chungliang Al Huang while the section of Island was read aloud. The second aeon, said Crowley, the tutor of the young Aldous Huxley, was that of Osiris, the father. This period "was characterized by patriarchal religions such as Judaism, Buddhism, Islam and Christianity."
Aleister Crowley wrote that in the initiation for the new age,
"the whole planet must be bathed in blood... This bloody sacrifice is the critical point of the World Ceremony..."
He worshiped the goddess as "Our Lady Babylon."
"The Great Whore (was) an ancient epithet for the Goddess."
Alice Bailey wrote that the Moon was now a dead thought form which will crumble in the near future. Gurdjieff disagreed, He believed it was a plant waiting to be born, and it is coming to life by devouring human of death. Isis (the "Star of the Sea") was the Egyptian goddess of fertility.
She was represented as standing on the crescent moon with stars surrounding her head. This Isis thing is more extensive than one might think -- figures quite prominently in the British circles. Here too with A. Huxley. Jonathan Cott, in Isis and Osiris: Exploring the Goddess Myth (Doubleday 1994) said in his Acknowledgments:
"I am inestimably grateful to my editor, Jacqueline Onassis, for guiding me through the realms of Isis and Osiris..." in Isis and Osiris (the book Jackie Onassis supervised just before her death) a group called Ammonites is prominent and in fear of persecution.
The chief God of the Ammonites was Milcom. A Professor Elletson proposed that the Satanic money power seeks to spiritually and genetically destroy the culture and civilizations of Aryan, Indo-European or Western Man. Arnold Toynbee admitted that an original or "Aryan" or "Indo-European" language preceded all other languages. H.G. Wells said that those who were of Aryan dissent thought alike. The former was a high officer in British Intelligence while the latter was a Fabian. Alpert Pike is quoted by Elletson on Aryanism. Pike was a student of Sanskrit (which he learned later in life). Gorby forum attendee Willis Harman, New Age philosopher, president of the Institute of Noetic Sciences, and author of Global Mind Change and The New Metaphysical Foundation of Modern Science, has had a profound effect on our society in the past couple of decades.
In "Our Hopeful Future: Creating a Sustainable Society," one of his new essays, Harman reported:
"Around the world one detects murmurings that industrialized and 'developing' countries alike have a need for a new social order -- that, in fact, the situation calls for a worldwide systemic change." "In the economy-dominated world, as anthropologist Margaret Mead once put it bluntly, 'the unadorned truth is that we do not need now, and will not need later, much of the marginal labor -- the very young, the very old, the very uneducated, and the very stupid.'" "This dilemma is perhaps the most basic one we face," said Harman. Society can't afford "from an environmental standpoint, or from the standpoint of tearing apart of the social fabric -- the economic growth that would be necessary to provide jobs for all in the conventional sense, and the inequities which have come to accompany that growth. This dilemma, more than any other aspect of our current situation, indicates how fundamental a system change is now required."
"Around the world one detects murmurings that industrialized and 'developing' countries alike have a need for a new social order -- that, in fact, the situation calls for a worldwide systemic change."
"In the economy-dominated world, as anthropologist Margaret Mead once put it bluntly, 'the unadorned truth is that we do not need now, and will not need later, much of the marginal labor -- the very young, the very old, the very uneducated, and the very stupid.'"
"This dilemma is perhaps the most basic one we face," said Harman.
Society can't afford "from an environmental standpoint, or from the standpoint of tearing apart of the social fabric -- the economic growth that would be necessary to provide jobs for all in the conventional sense, and the inequities which have come to accompany that growth. This dilemma, more than any other aspect of our current situation, indicates how fundamental a system change is now required."
David C. Korten is a disciple of Harman.The Royal Institute of International Affairs used the life-time work of Aldous Huxley and Bulwer-Lytton as its blueprint to bring about a state where mankind will no longer have wills of their own in the One World Government-New World Order of the fast-approaching New Dark Age.
Huxley said:
"In many societies at many levels of civilization, attempts have been made to fuse drug intoxication with God intoxication. In ancient Greece, for example, ethyl alcohol had its place in the established religions. Dionysus, Bacchus, as he was often called, was a true divinity. Complete prohibition of chemical changes can be decreed but cannot be enforced."
Homosexual drug-addict and City of London agent, Aldous Huxley, introduced LSD into the USA on behalf of the clandestine Tavistock Institute, said to be responsible for the Port Arthur Massacre.
DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1. Were Orwell and Huxley preparing us or warning us as Fabians?2. Are the British Royals something we now admire in America?3. Were drugs intentionally introduced to the U.S. at a time the British gave us no help in Vietnam?4. Can we criticize the British royals for being into the cult of Isis after looking at the top of our nation's capitol?5. Name a good recent book exposing British Fabianism.6. Why is Gorby here when he can't get 2% of the vote in Russia?7. President Bush and Paul McCarthy were both knighted by the Queen. Why?8. Who presently is a member of the Knights of the Garter?
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The New Age Movement
