# Frank E. Stranges & Valiant Thor

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/bb/stranges.htm

from BrotherBlue Website
recovered through WayBackMachine Website
"Many Earth people live one life openly while in their hearts and minds, they live quite another. Double mindedness seemed to be a way of life in the Pentagon building that served as the busy nerve center of our nation. Val once remarked to me that he had never witnessed in one central location such concentrated confusion."
A Holy Stranger in the Pentagonal Lodge
Extracted from "Stranger at the Pentagon" by Dr. Frank E. Stranges, Ph.D. 1967
"When I asked him where he was from, he replied, 'I am from the Planet that is called Venus.' I asked him how many visitors from Venus were presently on Earth and he said, 'There are presently seventy seven of us walking among you in the United States. We are constantly coming and going.'"
"When I asked him where he was from, he replied, 'I am from the Planet that is called Venus.'
I asked him how many visitors from Venus were presently on Earth and he said, 'There are presently seventy seven of us walking among you in the United States. We are constantly coming and going.'"
The First Meeting
March 16, 1957, in Alexandria, Virginia, one of the finest leaders of the planet Venus, operating under the direction of the Central Control and who had been chosen to make the contact as well as direct the project, landed his craft and was met by two police officers, weapons drawn.
A thought transference quickly convinced them that he meant no harm and he was ushered into the back seat of their patrol car. After crossing over into Washington, D.C., they were met by the Secretary of Defense along with six of his staff members. Soon police from every conceivable district and agency had joined in, all trying to claim their right to escort him to President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Through his own version of the power of positive thinking, he was able to dismiss them all and soon passed through the security posts followed by an Air Force Captain.
Meanwhile, his presence in the area had thrown everyone into a dilemma. The introduction he held from the High Council worried them because, though not written in any Earthly language, their minds were given power to properly translate the inscribed message.
Captain Gould (not his real name) asked him to remain and after downing two plain bourbons muttered...
"My god, why couldn't this have happened on my day off?"
Suddenly the door opened and six armed guards led Val to what appeared to be an elevator.
It went rapidly to the bottom-most level. Maximum security was in place. After transferring to an underground train, they sped toward the White House. Six officials, six armed guards and three secret service men escorted him into the office of President Eisenhower. From behind the desk the President rose while the secret service men remained nervous and uneasy. As he extended his hand to shake that of the President, the secret service men drew their revolvers and pointed them at Val. Following the nod of the President, they reluctantly lowered their guns. Standing in front of his desk, the President said,
"Of course, you know we have suspended all rules of protocol. I have a good feeling toward you. Please, sir, what is your name?" "And where do you come from?" "I come from the planet your Bible calls the morning and the evening star." "Venus?" "Yes, sir." "Can you prove this," he asked. "What do you constitute as proof?" He quickly retorted, "I don't know." "Will you come with me to my ship?"
He answered with a quizzical look and said,
"My friend, I cannot come and go as I please. There are others to be considered. There are committees to be consulted and security measures to be adhered to. Please spend some time with us here ...Let's get better acquainted ...learn more about one another ...and perhaps soon, real soon, well ...we shall see."
Richard Nixon
At that moment, another gentleman rushed into the room. It turned out to be Vice President Richard Nixon.
He appeared to Val to be very sharp, quick-witted, with fixed eyes and an amazing aptitude toward speed and proficiency.
"My name is Valiant," he said as the Vice President thrust his hand without hesitation. "You have certainly caused a stir ...for an out of towner."
The Vice President smiled as he continued,
"Of course, we are not totally convinced of anything just yet. But suffice it to say we are checking and double checking everything you say and do. When Sergeant Young from Alexandria radioed in and stated that you had just landed in a flying saucer, we thought," he continued, "Sergeant Young had flipped. Say, were you in on that UFO flap over Washington? You certainly had us all in a dither, if you were."
After assuring them that this planet had been under close scrutiny for hundreds of years before the 1945 bomb blast and with his special letter still in the slightly quivering hand of the President, he was requested to follow the Secret Service back the way they had come ...to the Pentagon and into a beautifully furnished apartment where he would spend the next three years.
Fortunately, he was prepared for such a lengthy visit and kept in constant communication with the Starship. There were many occasions during which he teleported himself in and out of those quarters often exercising "transimagery" to cause the security guards to visualize his face on a nonexistent badge.
Photos Taken
Soon after his arrival, together with three members of his crew, he joined a "convention" in the back yard of the home of Mr. Howard Menger in High Bridge, New Jersey. The month was April, 1957. A certain group of individuals who were interested in UFOs were meeting that day.
Val and his crew members, Donn, Jill and Tanyia, had changed into the same type of clothing worn by their Earth friends. The meeting was very interesting and these people were on the right track. He was dismayed to learn the undignified manner in which these people were treated by the press.
Nevertheless, these people were pursuing their beliefs and this was good. A curious young photographer, August C. Roberts, snapped several pictures, thinking he was doing so without Val's knowledge. The photographer seemed to be greatly troubled when he attempted to talk to him. Yet, it was those very photographs which were to bring me together with this unusual man on that cold December day.
Holding the message from the High Council in his hand, the President stated that Val's offer to help the human family would upset the economy of the United States and could plunge her into the Abyss of Chaos. In brief, he politely told Val that the people of this planet were not ready to cope with such conditions as would come into existence if the recommendations of this unearthly visitor were put into action.
Nevertheless, he was invited to assist a number of scientists who were out working on medical projects directly associated with the space sciences. His allotted time to acquaint the leaders of the United States with his suggestions was limited to three years.
During this time, he refused to advise them regarding a certain "bomb in the sky" which we now know as the Star Wars system.
"Miracle" Garment
In his apartment, he was able to maintain communications with his ship and was kept informed of the growing world tensions. His uniform underwent rigid tests at that time. By today's standards, they would now be obsolete. They attempted to penetrate the material with a diamond drill bit, but it snapped under pressure.
Acid rolled off the uniform and burned a hole in the floor.
They fired a high-velocity rifle at the uniform but it failed to pierce it.
The report to the President read:
Physical appearance -- Soft silver and gold lustrous Fabric -- Unknown Weight-Six ounces, total, including boots Cut -- Close fitting like a tunic; no cuffs, pockets, buttons, zippers, clips or hooks RXT-2 Tests -- Indestructible
Physical appearance -- Soft silver and gold lustrous
Fabric -- Unknown
Weight-Six ounces, total, including boots
Cut -- Close fitting like a tunic; no cuffs, pockets, buttons, zippers, clips or hooks
RXT-2 Tests -- Indestructible
Finally, a bright-eyed Colonel escorted him to a place where the final test would be performed.
Val looked at the laser instrument amusingly. Upon command, the laser aimed a fine line of intense light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. The Colonel began his discourse that this device contained a crystal-synthetic ruby in which atoms, when stimulated by focused light waves, amplify and concentrate these waves, then emit the beam.
As the Colonel continued to speak, his smile gave way to utter dismay... the ray being totally ineffective against the garment.
He babbled on long after the laser has been turned off. He reiterated how powerful the US had become since the splitting of the atom. He gave Val a lesson in atomic fusion.
He went on to state that when a chain reaction of nuclear fission is set off by a neutron bombardment in the atoms or a charge of plutonium or uranium isotope with an atomic weight of 235 (U-235), an immense quantity of energy is suddenly released. The good Colonel finally talked himself out and Val was conducted back to his quarters...along with his uniform. 1959 was fast drawing to a close.
Chiefs of State were in a constant turmoil and confusion was the rule of the day. Indecision caused delay after delay. Economists and industrial giants conferred with politicians and military heads daily. The Government leaders could not reconcile Val's being in a position to force their hand if he so desired. Several scientists attempted to learn the secrets of interstellar travel... without success. Christmas week was now upon us. I had been busily presenting a series of scientific lectures and speaking at a number of Churches in Washington, D.C. Earlier that month, I had returned from Cuba where I met personally with Fidel Castro. Unbeknownst to me, Val, working with "Nancy Warren" (she was one of only a few since his arrival at the Pentagon in whom he was able to discern an honest and open heart and who loved Almighty God, her country and her fellow man), formulated a plan whereby I would be contacted.
Inside the Pentagon
Many Earth people live one life openly while in their hearts and minds, they live quite another. Double mindedness seemed to be a way of life in the Pentagon building that served as the busy nerve center of our nation.
Val once remarked to me that he had never witnessed in one central location such concentrated confusion.
"Nancy" attended the lecture/service which I conducted at the National Evangelistic Center, pastored by Dr. John Mears, in Washington, D.C. Following the conclusion of my talk, she approached the platform and asked to speak to me. Strangely enough, the photographer in New Jersey had given Val's photographs to me and I had been displaying them at my lectures ever since.
I had no personal knowledge of them, other than what I had been told by the photographer. When she was unable to "grab" my attention while I was signing copies of my book SAUCERAMA, she showed her Pentagon ID and that got my attention quickly to say the least. We borrowed the Pastor's study and she asked me if I would like to meet the man in the photographs personally. Of course, I answered her with a resounding yes. She then asked if I could follow instructions to the letter, to which I replied that I could, and she told me to meet her at the curb in front of my hotel at 8:00 am the next morning. "Nancy" arrived precisely on time and thus began the journey which at times would seen unreal, but which later would prove beyond doubt that there is truly life in God's Universe. Those of you familiar with the Pentagon know that the normal traffic flow approaching it is to the right. We drove to the left. I knew then that something strange was going on. We had to stand in line to pass by a security guard. First one, then the second, "VISUALIZED" an identification badge on my lapel. This utterly amazed me and I felt that at any minute, I would be picked up, handcuffed and thrown into some jail somewhere. This of course was only my imagination and anticipation of what was about to take place.
"Nancy" left me standing in front of a door which contained no markings. As the door opened, I walked in and stood on the threshold. My stocky form shifted from one foot to the other as I cleared my throat. The three men in the room were completely unaware of my presence and ignored me. I was puzzled to say the least. Later, I would find out that Val had clouded their minds and rendered them oblivious to the entire session.
They continued with their work.
The Stranger Appears
Being a minister of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as well as a student of the Bible for many years, coupled with my experience as an special investigator, I felt as though my senses were functioning properly and that I knew exactly what I was about to do.
I was on my guard for fakes and frauds. In walked a man, about six feet tall, perhaps 185 pounds, brown wavy hair, brown eyes. His complexion appeared normal and slightly tanned. As I approached him and he looked at me IT WAS AS THOUGH HE LOOKED STRAIGHT THROUGH ME.
With a warm smile and extending his hand, he greeted me by name.
"Hello, Frank. How are you?"
His genuineness astonished me, but quickly I understood. As I gripped his hand, I was somewhat surprised to feel the soft texture of his skin... like that of a baby but with the strength of a man that silently testified to his power and intensity. His voice was very strong and mellow. It was filled with purpose and character. I again looked around the room to see whether the other men would say or do anything. They were still working as if I weren't there. I noticed that he was wearing the same type of clothing as I. When I asked if he possessed any other clothing, he said that he had given several officials a garment so that they could run tests on it. He then proceeded to a closet and produced a one- piece "suit" that glittered as the sun which streamed in through the window hit the fabric.
I thought that it looked like liquid sunshine. I asked him about the material from which it was made.
He answered, "It is made of a material not of this Earth."
The general appearance of the suit was all one piece ...even down to the boots. It contained no buttons, zippers or snaps. I asked him how it held together. He demonstrated by holding the front together and passing his hand over it as if to smooth it out.
I could not even locate the opening. It was held together by an invisible force.
To Help Mankind
He told me that his purpose in coming was to help mankind return to the Lord.
He spoke in positive terms... always with a smile on his face. He said that man was further away from God than ever before, but there was still a good chance if man looks in the right place. He told me he had been here nearly three years and would depart in just a few months.
Claiming that he would not use force to speak with men in authority in America, he was happy to consult with them at their invitation. He further stated that thus far only a few men in Washington knew of his existence in the Pentagon.
And few leaders had availed themselves of his advice during these past three years. He felt there was still so much to do and yet his time of departure was getting near. He told me that Jesus Christ would not force men to be saved from their mistakes, even though He had already made a way for mankind to be redeemed through His shed blood.
When I asked him where he was from, he replied, "I am from the Planet that is called Venus." I asked him how many visitors from Venus were presently on Earth and he said, "There are presently seventy seven of us walking among you in the United States. We are constantly coming and going."
During the next thirty minutes, he told me things about myself that even I did not know.
Later, I was able to verify them with my parents and grandparents. He gave me information regarding the gravitational pull of Venus in comparison to Earth. I was informed that the abdominal muscles hold flesh firm against the mild gravitational pull, which is three-twentieths less than that of Earth.
He gave me information which would be revealed to others over a period of years.
No Fingerprints
The only thing he said that troubled me was his use of the expression "when the time is right" in response to my question as to whether or not I would see him again.
His lack of fingerprints intrigued me as I had been involved as a private investigator for quite some time, even working at times on loan to some of the Government agencies.
I had learned the science of fingerprints ...with the impression of the lines and whorls on the inner surface of the last joint of each finger on the human hand. He told me that all Earth people were thusly marked since the fall of Adam in the Garden of Eden, during the very dawn of civilization as we know it today.
He began to prepare me for the road which lie ahead. It would not be an easy one. There would be adversities, organized attempts to both discourage and discredit me, but the rewards have proved to outweigh these trials which continue even to this day. We discussed the merits of Jesus Christ ... how He gave His Life freely... so that men could enjoy the benefits of eternal life. I questioned him about a Bible on Venus and he assured me that a personal unbroken fellowship with the "Author" did not necessitate the printing of a "book".
He found it amusing that many theologians attempt to discredit both Jesus Christ and The Bible. The very God many have said is "dead" continues to lavish them with all good things. Perhaps they will, in time, permit the spark of Divine Light to again illuminate their troubled hearts. In answer to my question of what he thought of Jesus Christ, he said,
"I know that Jesus is the Alpha and Omega of yours and everyone else's faith. He today has assumed His rightful position as the ruler of the universe and is preparing a place and a time for all who are called by His Name to ascend far above the clouds to where His Power and Authority shall never again be disputed. "I believe that Jesus Christ is the wonder of wonders and changes not. No, not forever and forever."
"I know that Jesus is the Alpha and Omega of yours and everyone else's faith.
He today has assumed His rightful position as the ruler of the universe and is preparing a place and a time for all who are called by His Name to ascend far above the clouds to where His Power and Authority shall never again be disputed.
"I believe that Jesus Christ is the wonder of wonders and changes not. No, not forever and forever."
As he spoke these words, my own heart burned within me and tears filled my eyes. He turned to the window and said, "Frank, it will not be long. Contend for the faith, and you will never miss the mark." I asked him if there is life on other planets.
Life on Other Planets
His reply was,
"There is life on many other planets of which people on Earth know nothing. There are more solar systems for which man has not even given God credit. There are many beings that have never transgressed the perfect laws of God. Man does not possess the right to condemn the whole of God's creation because he himself has broken the perfect laws of God through disobedience."
"There is life on many other planets of which people on Earth know nothing. There are more solar systems for which man has not even given God credit. There are many beings that have never transgressed the perfect laws of God.
Man does not possess the right to condemn the whole of God's creation because he himself has broken the perfect laws of God through disobedience."
I asked him what he would do if the military prevented him from leaving on the appointed day.
He simply stated, "Frank, do you remember one day after Jesus arose from the dead, He had gone in search of several of His followers? They closed themselves in a locked room and suddenly they saw Jesus standing in the very midst of them?" He then smiled and looked at me as if to imply, "Need I say more?" As I turned to leave the room, he said simply, "Please keep your faith and leave the same way that you came in. Continue to seek first the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness and all other things will, in time, be added to you and yours. Good-bye for now and God bless you and keep you always."
He simply stated, "Frank, do you remember one day after Jesus arose from the dead, He had gone in search of several of His followers? They closed themselves in a locked room and suddenly they saw Jesus standing in the very midst of them?" He then smiled and looked at me as if to imply, "Need I say more?"
As I turned to leave the room, he said simply, "Please keep your faith and leave the same way that you came in. Continue to seek first the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness and all other things will, in time, be added to you and yours.
Good-bye for now and God bless you and keep you always."
I left that meeting astounded, greatly encouraged, and yet with a heavy heart, not knowing what the future would hold.
I began to wonder who would believe me if I ever told of this strange encounter with a man from another planet. I first considered not repeating this extraordinary story, but the more I thought about it, the more I prayed about it, the more I felt that it would bring a great blessing to those who would hear and read it. This interplanetary traveler possessed a wealth of knowledge, not only about science and God, but also about me. He stated that my book SAUCERAMA could not have been written without Heavenly guidance. Val's instructions were to leave Washington, D.C., no later than March 16, 1960. That meant that there were less than three months during which he could confer with scientists, politicians, military men and the like. All missed his point entirely. They were all filled with self-ambition and cared little for the pressing needs of mankind.
His efforts to bring about an end to the sickness and disease that plague this planet were met with pathetic refusal.
He was told over and over that his presence and his ideas were a threat to the political and economic structure. Certain religious leaders were also fearful of losing a grip on the people in the event that his presence was admitted on an official level.
It was very disheartening that the administration failed to lay hold of such information that would change the course of human activities for the good... because of economic reasons. Security regulations were very tight, but despite the fact that they knew he would come and go as he pleased, they delighted in playing their game. Val had vowed not to use force and so another course of action would be necessary if the information which he had to relate were to be disseminated.
This is the reason why he contacted men of Godly character and strength around the world. Many are presently working in close contact with Val and other members of his crew.
Meeting with the President
His last meeting with the President did not reap any lasting results.
He wanted to let the world know of Val's proposed plan, but the Secretary of Defense, the head of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Military Chiefs of Staff were opposed to his suggestion. The President attempted to effect a Joint meeting before the General Assembly of the United Nations.
But this plan too was rejected. He was informed that the U.N. would receive a special "press release" in the form of a memorandum to the Secretary General no later than February 7, 1966. These leaders of the U.S. Government argued long into the night, fearing that if the people of this nation learned of the plan Val was offering, they might choose to follow him instead of them.
When a man feels that his personal peace and tranquility may be threatened, the human reaction is always that of swift self- preservation. At one point, the Vice President insisted that the "pressure boys" allow the President to make the choice. He was vetoed without even a chance to complete his statements. World conditions were not growing any better. Much international pressure was being brought to bear upon the administration. They fought diligently and enforced rigid regulations with stiff penalties for revealing Val's presence.
Even a major newscaster who inadvertently learned of his visit through one of his paid informants was silenced by none other than the Central Intelligence Agency, which has consistently disclaimed all knowledge concerning UFOs.
Meanwhile, they maintain secret files that could actually prove the existence of intelligent life in the universe beyond all doubt. The morning of March 15, 1960 saw Val meeting with "Nancy Warren" who would continue to work inside the Pentagon and be one of his contacts in the Washington, D.C. area. She would continue communication with others who would become part of his Earth contacts. There are still to this day many adversaries to human freedom. These parasites have imbedded themselves in all phases of human society and will never be exposed except by extraterrestrial intervention. There are confused individuals who have perfected a saucer-type aircraft. Some of these are the result of an attempt by some to institute a master race. Remnants of this group still exist.
These craft which they designed are still seen from time to time in areas of South America where some of those involved in the original plans still reside.
These should not be confused with the spacecraft originating from other worlds or those coming from the interior of this planet. Nor should the occupants of craft originating from other worlds be confused with those "evil messengers" who do not originate from Earth but were cast INTO it after the first "war" ever recorded.
They are in league with Earthly low-grades who have condemned themselves because of their own choices.
The Spaceman Departs
On March 16, Val dematerialized and departed from this phase of his Earthly mission.
His next stop was the outskirts of Alexandria, Virginia where his ship and his crew awaited his arrival, hidden by a wooded area. It was no problem for him to reassemble the atoms of his body inside his ship.
As his craft rose slowly, a number of people stopped and pointed excitedly in his direction. Others stood motionless, transfixed by the sight which they beheld. He felt such a tremendous feeling of love for all of them. There was no panic in them... just curiosity and a strong desire to know more.
Then, as the USAF jets were scrambled, and with the force field now in full use, the planes darted past the ship unable to see them now. Even ground radar lost them on their equipment. Confusion once again reigned. On the way back to Victor One, he meditated on his home planet, the low, heavy, colorful clouds, the even temperatures, the perfectly diffused sunlight that made shadows almost nonexistent, the lushness of the rich green grass surrounding his home. He was informed of several Earth people with whom he would maintain contact for a long time into the future.
Strangely enough, those who knew of his presence, yet who claimed disbelief, were those who feared the most. Others figured THEY should have been the ones contacted and not those who were. Upon returning to his home planet, he advised the Council of Central Control of the results of his Earth visit including the failure of the leaders of the United States to "take him up" on his offer of advice and assistance to the human family.
He was given the following instructions:
To mingle with and become as Earth people To work and labor in Earth enterprises To help those who encounter possible threat or danger while striving for world peace To give them advice and guidance To entrust with superior knowledge those who have proven themselves Divulge the essence of their mission to the collective national leaders of Earth, only when the time is right.
To mingle with and become as Earth people
To work and labor in Earth enterprises
To help those who encounter possible threat or danger while striving for world peace
To give them advice and guidance
To entrust with superior knowledge those who have proven themselves
Divulge the essence of their mission to the collective national leaders of Earth, only when the time is right.
As of this writing, he continues with this mission, at the same time assisting in preventing our "civilization" from being the cause of orbital chaos by the destruction of our planet.
Return to Venus
Return to Aliens Among Us
Return to The Blue Brethren
Return to Galactic Federations and Councils
Return to Eisenhower's 1954 Meeting With Extraterrestrials
Return to The Divine and The Manipulative Extraterrestrials
