# Fraud or Genuine?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_zion04.htm

The fact remains that there is no documentary proof that the Protocols of the Elders of Zion are what they say they are. Allegations of forgery and fraud have dogged their public history. However, despite many opinions to the contrary, the documents have never been proved to be fraudulent. I have provided here some tiny amount of the vast amount of circumstantial evidence which indicates that the Protocols are simply one of many documents to betray an agenda of world domination which remains unchanged, stretching back through time to its first incarnation as the Book of Deuteronomy - the Second Law as given to Moses by Yahweh. The fact that the Protocols are demonstrably the agenda to which the worlds politicians have orchestrated public and secretive maneuvers to bring the world to the brink of a New World Order under a One World Government, is almost impossible to refute. That such a proven agenda could have arisen in the 19th century, contemporary with the unfolding political events therein - the Bolshevik Revolution, two World Wars and Zionism - is possible, but extremely unlikely. Because it also fits very well many of the events which unfolded in the previous centuries too. In fact, the very centuries considered - stretching all the way back to the 7th Century BC, where I have shown, a remarkably similar document was written by the Levitical priests who ruled the people of Jerusalem. And no conspiratorial document of its type has ever been found to pre-date this period. As we have seen, to declare the Protocols a Catholic conspiracy blamed upon Jews would be tantamount to calling Deuteronomy one too, and many other biblical books which predate the formation of the Roman Church by many centuries. Nevertheless, there is ample proof to show that the Catholic Church has played an enormously useful role in the implementation of the ancient conspiracy by acting as a carrier for Judaic ideas, and as a vehicle for infiltration by Marranos, Jewish popes and Illumined Freemasons (such as the P2 lodge). It is my belief that the Protocols are what they say they are. However, to believe that this conspiracy against mankind is purely orchestrated and executed by Jews would be nonsensical. Even the most cursory glance through the pages of history proves the fact that Gentiles of all denominations have played major roles in the implementation of this plan - never more so than under the banner of Christianity - knowingly or unknowingly; whilst the majority of the worlds Jews have had no knowledge of, or have given no support to, the plan to which they have signed their name by declaring themselves to be Jewish. In fact, the largest opposition to Zionism in the formative years of this century (XX Century) came from Western Jews and native Palestinian Jews. However, since the Second World War and the Holocaust, it has even become somewhat of a faux pas and considered anti-Semitic for even Jews to declare opposition to Zionism and Talmudic extremism. This is a great testament to the truth that history is written by the winners. And the winners always use history to programme the next generation to accept their own agenda unquestioningly. As the following Protocols will so ably demonstrate. The Publishers (Flanders Hall Publishing Company, New Orleans) Foreword to the revised edition of Waters Flowing Eastward mentions the following:
Several arguments against the authenticity of the Protocols are examined in the book. It may be well to mention here a completely new argument, for their authenticity. In 1937, a Russian ex-officer of the Czarist Intelligence Service asked to see a friend of ours. The Russian ex-officer was accompanied, on the occasion of the meeting, by a man well and favorably known to our friend. The ex-officer informed our friend and his wife that, in 1897, he had been called from Washington, where he was working for the Czarist government, and sent to Basle, Switzerland, where the first Zionist Congress was being held that year. He was given a small detachment of picked secret service men. While the Jews were in secret conclave, his men staged a sham fire and dashed into the room shouting Fire! Fire! In the ensuing confusion he made his way quickly to the Presidents or Lecturers table and took possession of all the papers that were on it. These papers contained the originals of the Protocols.This Russian officer escaped out of Russia in 1917 and lived mostly in Paris. He was an old man in 1937. Needless to say our friends veracity and reliability are unquestioned.Critics of the Protocols genuineness have claimed that they were a forgery, derived from earlier documents and used as propaganda against the Jews by their opponents. As I hope I have shown here, the documents most certainly do derive from an earlier common source, but that does not make them forgeries, any more than latest encyclopedia can be condemned as a deliberate forgery because previous works of an almost identical nature already exist.This argument also falls down on another point, which actually operates in favor of the theory of the Jewish origin, rather than against it. It has often been argued that the Protocols bear remarkable likeness to a book called Dialogues aux Enfers entre Machiavelli et Montesquieu (also known as the Geneva Dialogues), published anonymously in Brussels in 1865. However, the passages quoted as being plagiarized from the Geneva Dialogues for the Protocols are remarkably similar to those in a book published in 1850, called, similarly, Machiavelli, Montesquieu and Rousseau by Jacob Venedy. And Venedy was a Jew and a Freemason! He was a revolutionary and also a close associate of the Jew Karl Marx (real name Mordecai,) and Maurice Joly, the true author of the Geneva Dialogues! Marxs father Heinrich, whose original name was Hirschel ha-Levi, was the son of a rabbi and the descendant of talmudic scholars for many generations. (Encyclopaedia Judaica, 1997). Marxs Communist Manifesto is clearly Illuminist, and very much in parallel with the Protocols.
One cant have ones cake and eat it on this line of enquiry, I am afraid. All roads lead to Zion!
"...there is much in the fact of Bolshevism itself. In the fact that so many Jews are Bolsheviks. In the fact that the ideals of Bolshevism are consonant with the finest ideals of Judaism."(The Jewish Chronicle, April 4, 1918) Some call it Marxism I call it Judaism.(The American Bulletin, Rabbi S. Wise, May 5, 1935)
The Protocols were initially published in the Russian newspaper Snamia in 1903 and are believed to have been also published in 1902/1903 in the newspaper Moskowskija Wiedomosti. Despite a copy of the book written by Professor Sergyei Nilus (an official at the Department of Foreign Relations at Moscow) being registered in the British Museum on August 10th, 1906, they were otherwise unknown outside of Russia until after the Bolshevik Revolution when Russian emigrants took copies to North America and Germany. In Bolshevik Russia, they carried the death sentence for anyone found to be in possession of them. (As far as I am aware, the entire document deposited in the British Museum has never been fully translated into English). The Protocols gained widespread recognition upon their translation into English, in 1920. They soon became notorious. Esteemed newspapers such as The Times and The Morning Post (whose Moscow correspondent Victor E Marsden was responsible in 1921 for the translation used in this document) covered the story in numerous articles, much to the chagrin of world Jewry, who immediately began the propaganda bandwagon rolling. They not only denied that the Protocols were a Jewish plot, but also that there was any plot whatsoever. The latter was quite clearly false to all educated men and women of the time.
Probably so much money and energy were never before in history expended on the effort to suppress a single document. The period of 1920 marks the end of the time when the Jewish question could be impartially openly discussed in public.(Reed - The Controversy of Zion )
The Press was firmly under the thumb of the vested interests. Those that went against the grain and published information on the Protocols were soon brought into line or brought down by financial and political pressure. As an example, in 1920, Lord Northcliffe, the owner of several newspapers, as well as being joint proprietor of The Times, caused to be published in The Times an article called The Jewish Peril, a Disturbing Pamphlet, Call for Enquiry. This article on the Protocols called for a proper investigation into the documents. In February 1922, he set about a fervently anti-Zionist mission, a series of articles about what was really going on in Palestine. On August 14, 1922 Northcliffe died of ulcerative endocarditis. He had been confronted on a train to Evian-les-Bains in June by the editor of The Times, Mr Wickham Steed, with a doctor who had certified Northcliffe insane. On the strength of this he was barred from entering the offices of The Times by a police guard, and his communications were ordered to be ignored by the staff. All of this despite showing no outward signs of madness to those who later commented on his appearance or state of mind. However, he had stated that he believed his life was in danger and that he was being poisoned. This whole story was suppressed until the publication of The Official History of the Times, thirty years later in 1952! Thus, one man who had enough power and will to challenge the Protocols and Zionism on an international stage to an audience of millions, who was committed to illuminating the world as to the true agenda, had been removed. The often cited fact that the Protocols are a proven fraud, is easily dismissed, as it is actually entirely untrue and based upon a very specific court case. Numerous unsuccessful attempts had been made by world Jewry to have the Protocols denounced as a forgery. But it was not until 1933 that any legal action was taken in this respect: On 26th June, 1933, the Federation of Jewish Communities of Switzerland and the Berne Jewish Community brought an action against five members of the Swiss National Front, seeking a judgment that the Protocols were a forgery and a prohibition of their publication. The procedure of the Court was astounding, the provisions of the Swiss Civil Code being deliberately set aside. Sixteen witnesses called by the plaintiffs were heard, but only one of the forty witnesses called by the defendants was allowed a hearing. The judge allowed the plaintiffs to appoint two private stenographers to keep the register of proceedings during the hearing of their witnesses, instead of entrusting the task to a Court official. In view of these and similar irregularities, it was not surprising that, after the case had lasted just on two years, the Court pronounced the Protocols to be a forgery and demoralizing literature. The decision was given on 14th May, 1935, but it was announced in the Jewish Press before it was delivered by the Court? On 1st November, 1937, the Swiss Court of Criminal Appeal quashed this judgment in its entirety. Jewish propagandists, however, still declare that the Protocols have been "proved" to be a forgery.
It was natural that the Jews should try to discredit the Protocols, for their growing fame was focusing more public attention on other revealing utterances.(Waters Flowing Eastward - revised and updated by Rev. Denis Fahey)
The second trial found in favor of the Jewish lobby and fined the defendants 100 francs costs. But this had nothing to do with the Protocols. It was due to another article which was included in the prosecution, entitled Schweizermädchen hüte dich vor schändenen Juden (Swiss Girls Beware of Dishonourable Jews). The court had stated that this was Jew-baiting and an attempt to defame the Jews as a body. The Jewish lobby, who had written in their journals that the Protocols were a proven forgery later were forced to change their stance to that their authenticity had not been furnished. But a popular myth survives of the former stance. The fact remains, that the Protocols are NOT a proven forgery. The fact also remains that since their publication, world events have unfolded exactly according to their description. We are gradually being mobilized into a New World Order. The One World Government is being facilitated by the gradual movement of nation states into larger power blocks such as the European Union and NAFTA etc. The United Nations has come into power as a global police force under the excuse of being a protector and benefactor of the world, exactly as outlined in the Protocols. The Jews have symbolically returned to Palestine, as the State of Israel now exists as the official universal homeland of all Jews, despite the vast majority of Jews having no racial connection with Israel whatsoever. I sincerely hope that the Protocols are a fraud and that there is no conspiracy. But I believe that the information here presented, which is but the tiny tip of an enormous iceberg, constitutes ample evidence of an ancient conspiracy orchestrated by a self-appointed elite, who are at least intimately associated with the core elect of international Judaism and have been for a very long time. Go Back
