# Freemasonry - The Worship of Lucifer, SATAN

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_brotherhoodss01b.htm

Rituals of Freemasonry
Freemasonry - The Worship of Lucifer, SATAN Part 2 of 5
This page concentrates on Masonic symbols. Occultists put an enormous emphasis on communicating through symbols with other members while hiding the truth from the Initiates and the "profane," i.e., people who are not members.
"Magic Symbols," by Fredrick Goodman states that "The true magic symbol is an image which hides an inner meaning. This meaning is usually cunningly hidden behind a form which most people think they can understand immediately." [p. 6]
Examining these Masonic symbols reveals the cunningly hidden meanings. Then compare them with known Satanic symbols so you can easily see from whence Freemasonry receives her "supernatural insights" and her "spiritual Light."
THE DOUBLE-HEADED EAGLE
The double-headed eagle is probably the most easily recognizable Masonic symbol in the world, even more important than the Square and Compass/Rule. They look like two eagles, but they are not. They are the Phoenix Bird of Ancient Egypt. Remember that the Brotherhood was known in ancient Egypt as, "The Mystery Schools." The current Presidential Seal has an eagle in it. The eagle replaced the Phoenix (the original national bird) in 1841 as the national bird. The Phoenix has been a Brotherhood symbol since ancient Egypt. The Phoenix was adopted by the Founding Fathers for use on the reverse of the first official seal of the United States after a design proposed by Charles Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress. Listen to the explanation from Masonic author, Manly P. Hall, 33rd Degree, K.T., in his book, The Phoenix: An Illustrated Review of Occultism and Philosophy . [Before we begin, I find it highly interesting that Hall would admit, by his use of this title, that Freemasonry is occultic].
"Among the ancients a fabulous bird called the Phoenix is described by early writers ... in size and shape it resembles the eagle, but with certain differences. The body of the Phoenix is one covered with glossy purple feathers, and the plumes in its tail are alternately blue and red. The head of the bird is light in color, and about its neck is a circlet of golden plumage. At the back of its back the Phoenix has a crest of feathers of brilliant color ... The Phoenix, it is said, lives for 500 years, and at its death its body opens and the new born Phoenix emerges. Because of this symbolism, the Phoenix is generally regarded as representing immortality and resurrection ... The Phoenix is one sign of the secret orders of the ancient world and of the initiate of those orders, for it was common to refer to one who had been accepted into the temples as a man twice-born, or reborn. Wisdom confers a new life, and those who become wise are born again." [p. p. 176-77]
"Among the ancients a fabulous bird called the Phoenix is described by early writers ... in size and shape it resembles the eagle, but with certain differences. The body of the Phoenix is one covered with glossy purple feathers, and the plumes in its tail are alternately blue and red. The head of the bird is light in color, and about its neck is a circlet of golden plumage. At the back of its back the Phoenix has a crest of feathers of brilliant color ...
The Phoenix, it is said, lives for 500 years, and at its death its body opens and the new born Phoenix emerges. Because of this symbolism, the Phoenix is generally regarded as representing immortality and resurrection ... The Phoenix is one sign of the secret orders of the ancient world and of the initiate of those orders, for it was common to refer to one who had been accepted into the temples as a man twice-born, or reborn. Wisdom confers a new life, and those who become wise are born again."
[p. p. 176-77]
Freemasons like all occultists, refer to their initiates who have completed their initiation, as being "Born Again." In 1988, when George Bush was on the Presidential Campaign Trail; Barbara Walters interviewed him. She asked him a question that caught him off guard. Barbara asked George if he was a Christian.
Bush literally stumbled, looked down for a moment, and answered,
"If by being a Christian, you ask if I am 'Born Again,' then yes, I am a Christian."
Bush parsed his words carefully, unlike a Born Again Christian. Bush has a lifetime membership in an Illuminist Masonic secret society called, Skull & Bones. The answer that Bush gave is typical of an occultist. They claim to be Born Again. They are also filled with religious ecstasy when the spirit of Lucifer sweeps through them upon Initiation. Back to the Phoenix Bird. Listen to the explanation given by a radical feminist, Barbara Walker, in her occult book, Now Is The Dawning , p. 281. Egyptians believed that the Phoenix was the representative of a god who "rose to heaven in the form of a morning star, like Lucifer, after his fire-immolation of death and rebirth ..." Wow! In one sweet, short, and simple sentence, we have conclusive proof that the Phoenix bird is a symbol of Lucifer ! Listen now to the testimony of another former witch, William Schnoebelen, in his book, Satan's Door Revisited , p. 4.
"The Phoenix, of Bunnu is believed to be a divine bird going back to Egypt ... This Phoenix destroys itself in flames and then rises from the ashes. Most occultists believe that the Phoenix is a symbol of Lucifer who was cast down in flames and who ... will one day rise triumphant. This [belief] also relates to the raising of Hiram Abiff, the Masonic 'Christ'."
To prevent most people from associating the Masonic Eagle with the ancient Phoenix, Freemasons changed the Phoenix to an Eagle, and began to refer to it as an Eagle. However, two Masonic authors blow the lid off that change in symbolism. Manly P. Hall, in his book, The Lost Keys of Freemasonry , states,
"These were the immortals to whom the term 'phoenix' was applied, and their symbol was the mysterious two-headed bird, now called an eagle , a familiar and little understood Masonic emblem ."
Albert Pike, in Magnum Opus, writes,
"... the Eagle was the living Symbol of Egyptian God Mendes ... and the representative of the Sun ..." [p. xviii]
In one sentence, we see the admission that the Phoenix Bird of Ancient Egypt was changed into the Masonic Eagle and then Pike admits that the Eagle is the Symbol of the Sun God and of the God of Mendes, both symbols being common Satanic symbols of Satan/Lucifer ! Remember also the Satanic meaning of the phrase depicted below the eagle the two Eagles -- "DEUS MEUMQUE JUS." As explained in Part 1 of 5 this is a typical Satanic Latin phrase, meaning,
"... Masons are saying that they are 'using occult methods,' through Lucifer, to achieve their Rights and Justice."
But why would a two-headed Eagle be adopted by Masonry, instead of a one-headed Eagle? Masonic author, R. Swinburne Clymer, writing in The Mysteries of Osiris , 1951, explains.
"When they [pagans] desired to express the renewal, or beginning, of the year, they represented it in the form of a door-keeper. It could easily be distinguished by the attributes of a key ... At times, they gave it two heads, back to back ... In time, this [back-to-back key symbol] became the double-headed Eagle of symbolic Masonry." [p. 42]
"When they [pagans] desired to express the renewal, or beginning, of the year, they represented it in the form of a door-keeper. It could easily be distinguished by the attributes of a key ... At times, they gave it two heads, back to back ... In time, this [back-to-back key symbol] became the double-headed Eagle of symbolic Masonry."
[p. 42]
THE TRIANGLE
One of the most utilized occultic symbols is the triangle. A triangle with its point downward represents the deity and is called the Deity's Triangle, or the Water Triangle. With one point up, it is called the Earthly Triangle, Pyramid Triangle, or the Fire Triangle. These two definitions of the triangle are standard occult belief. They came from a Masonic book, Symbolism of the Eastern Star, by Shirley Plessner. Robert Macoy said the same thing in Adoptive Rite Ritual , [Virginia: Macoy Publishing and Masonic Supply co., 1897, p. 237]. However, this latter representation of the triangle, with the point upward, is the symbol of the Perfect or Divine Man.
Notice this occult symbol portrays "Perfect Man and Woman" within a circle, which is within a square [representing creation], which is within a triangle [godhood], which is surrounded by the largest circle. Notice that the triangle here is with its point upward, signifying the Divinity of Man. Another Masonic writer who stated that Man can become Perfected or Divine is George H. Steinmetz, writing in, Freemasonry: Its Hidden Meaning. Also, Steinmetz wrote this belief in his book, The Lost Word: Its Hidden Meaning. Another Masonic writer, J.D. Buck, writes,
"It is far more important that men should strive to become Christ's than that they should believe that Jesus was Christ." [J.D. Buck, Mystic Masonry]
Going back to the Triangle pointing upward which represents the Perfect or Divine Man; Masonic writer Albert Churchward states standard occult belief when he further identifies the Upright Triangle. With the point up Churchward writes that this triangle represents Set. "Set" is one of the Infernal Names of Satan, as listed in the Satanic Bible written by Satanic High Priest, Anton LaVey. [Churchward's book was, Signs and Symbols of Primordial Man] In India, this triangle was worn in the foreheads of the followers of Shiva. Masonic authors William Meyer and J.S.M. Ward, also wrote that this type of triangle was worn in India by followers of Shiva, who wear it in their foreheads. Shiva is another Infernal Name listed in the Satanic Bible as another name for Satan! Meyer wrote this in, The Order of the Eastern Star; Ward wrote this information in, Freemasonry and the Ancient Gods.
Occult writer, R.P. Lawrie Krishna said the same thing in The Lamb Slain -- Supreme Sacrifice.
THE HEXAGRAM
Uniting the Water Triangle with the Fire Triangle, the Hexagram is formed. It forms a six pointed star also known as the Seal of Solomon. This symbol is a counterfeit Star of David, the national symbol of Israel. The difference between the Star of David and the occult seal is the triangles which make up the occult seal interlock and the two triangles of the Star of David lie flat against each other. Mary Ann Slipper, a Masonic author, writing in Symbolism of the Eastern Star, 1927, on page 14, makes a most telling admission, when she says,
"The six pointed star is used in Masonic work and is also found in other well known secret orders."
Another Eastern Star book, The Second Mile, understates the impact of the hexagram when it says,
"... the six pointed star is a very ancient symbol and one of the most powerful."
The hexagram is a very powerful symbol to witches, magicians and sorcerers. It is used in different kinds of witchcraft, magic, occultism, and the casting of zodialcal horoscopes.
Because it has six points, and because it contains a '666,' the hexagram is considered to be Satan's most powerful symbol. Look at the hexagram above. The first six is formed by the sides of each triangle facing the clockwise direction; the second six is formed by the sides of each triangle formed by facing the counterclockwise direction; the third six is formed by the sides of the inner hexagon. The hexagram was used as a,
"stand-by for Magicians and Alchemists. The Sorcerers believed it represented the footprint of a special kind of demon called a 'trud', and used it in ceremonies both to call up demons and to keep them away." [Gary Jennings, Black Magic, White Magic, Eau Claire. Also Harry E. Wedeck, Treasury of Witchcraft]
"stand-by for Magicians and Alchemists. The Sorcerers believed it represented the footprint of a special kind of demon called a 'trud', and used it in ceremonies both to call up demons and to keep them away."
[Gary Jennings, Black Magic, White Magic, Eau Claire. Also Harry E. Wedeck, Treasury of Witchcraft]
The hexagram is used to conjure up demons, making them appear in this dimension to do the bidding of the witch. Doc Marquis (Former Illuminist Satanist) confirms that hexagrams are used to call forth demons to place spells and curses on the intended victim. The word, "HEX," comes from this practice. The hexagram is also a symbol of the sex act and reproduction. Masonic author, Albert G. Mackey provides us with the occult explanation in his book, The Symbolism of Freemasonry, [p. 195, 1869 A.D.]
The triangle pointing downward,
"is a female symbol corresponding to the 'yoni' and the upward pointing triangle is the male, the 'lingam'. When the two triangles are interlaced, it represents the union of the active and passive forces in nature; it represents the male and female elements." [Also explained in Did You Know? Vignettes in Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine , Missouri Lodge of Research, 1965, p. 132, Wes Cook, Editor]
"is a female symbol corresponding to the 'yoni' and the upward pointing triangle is the male, the 'lingam'. When the two triangles are interlaced, it represents the union of the active and passive forces in nature; it represents the male and female elements."
[Also explained in Did You Know? Vignettes in Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine , Missouri Lodge of Research, 1965, p. 132, Wes Cook, Editor]
If this has not become evident to you, the occultist, the paganist, worship sex. They also worship most everything in nature, which fulfills the Biblical definition of a paganist in Romans 1:25, "Because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the Creator ..." Speaking of the sexual connotation of the hexagram, another witch revealed, "When the male triangle penetrates the female triangle, it produces the six pointed crest of Solomon or hexagram, the most wicked symbol in witchcraft." [David J. Meyer, Dancing With Demons: The Music's Real Master] The hexagram is the sign used in the Royal Arch in Freemasonry. Masonic author Wes Cook, writing in Did You Know? Vignettes in Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine, [Missouri Lodge of Research, 1965, p. 132] stated that the hexagram represented "balance and harmony" in all facets of the world. Another Masonic publication links the hexagram with the Chinese YANG AND YIN symbol. ["The Significant Numbers", Short Talk Bulletin , September, 1956, Vol. 34, No. 9, p. 5] In summary, the hexagram IS the most wicked, and one of the most powerful, of all symbols in witchcraft. It is used to call forth demons into this dimension, to communicate with the dead, to describe sex acts, and to represent gods such as Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. [Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated , Dr. Cathy Burns]
Return
