# George Soros Financed Peru Riots In July 2000

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_rothschild07.htm

by Richard Deegan May 7, 2001
from EducateYourSelf Website
A stunning admission was finally forced from the empire of the New World Orders George Soros that, indeed, he had contributed millions of dollars to the political campaigns of Alejandro Toledo Manrique in Peru, included $1,000,000 specifically for Toledos March from the Four Winds that resulted in six dead and multi-million dollar damage to government and private buildings and property (the specifics of these riots were the subject of a previous Report).
Smoking Fax Obtained from Toledo Camp Defector
The admission came in the form of a fax from international currency speculator Soros Open Society Institute in New York, issued by Director Michael Vachon.
The fax was intended to serve as a clarification after Toledo (who had previously denied receiving money from foreign interests) acknowledged receiving a million dollars from Soros specifically for the July 26-27-28 2000 series of demonstrations and attacks in the heart of Lima. Toledos acknowledgement resulted from writer Alvaro Vargas Llosas defection for moral and ethical reasons from the Toledo camp in view of what he termed conduct that left grave doubts about Toledos moral capability to govern.
While Toledo has long been known as indecisive and inconsistent as well as a pathological liar on the level of his former ally, ex President Clinton, new evidence of his machiavellian venality has recently rocked the Peruvian political scene.
The latest disclosures have shocked many of his staunchest supporters.
Cocaine & Orgies
Neither revelations of his cocaine orgies with prostitutes, nor his resort to corruption to avoid a paternity case have phased the population, who were ready to believe his claims that these accusations were part of a sinister campaign of dirty tricks to destroy his candidacy as he attacked reporters who dared to question him.
Not even his drunken harangue on the night of the 2001 election (managing to get barely one-third of the vote) had a negative effect or disappointed his fans, who view him as their kind of macho guy. What did hurt, however, was his statement that Now I have the press in my pocket, along with other evidence of his complete disdain for the democratic process and the Peruvian electorate.
The Telephone Deal
Shortly after the April 8 election, Toledo made a deal with Telefonica del Peru, subsidiary of the international conglomerate Telefonica of Spain that controls most telephone and cable service in South America.
Just days before, Telefonica had faced two problems:
1. An investigation of $6,000,000 of bribes to politicians in Argentina who supported higher telephone rates 2. Populist demands (led by APRA candidate Alan Garcia Perez and echoed by Toledo during his election campaign) to reduce phone rates in Peru.
Telefonica wanted to help Toledo see things their way, so they arranged for the elimination of a news channel, CCN, (not CNN) that had been critical of Toledo, and provided a pleasant all-expense paid trip to Santo Domingo for Toledo and his entourage.
This produced a statement from Toledo that telephone rates in Peru were, after all, fair and didnt need to be reduced further.
Fun in the Sun
The public was told that Toledo and his family had gone to Ayacucho (Peru) for religious services, but his trip to Santo Domingo during Holy Week was discovered.
When information began to surface that he was in Santo Domingo, there was initially panic from Toledos people, until his spin doctors learned that ex-President Clinton was also going to Santo Domingo. Toledos press releases suddenly indicated that Clinton had summoned Toledo to Santo Domingo for an emergency meeting.
Unfortunately, his writers had misread the advance article about Clinton in the New York Times and confused the dates of the supposed meeting.
Joseph Maiman, George Soros, & The Peruvian Sol
The original reason for concealing Toledos meeting to Santo Domingo was with one Joseph Maiman (a.k.a. Yosef, a.k.a. Josef), now an Israeli citizen with his own background of financial manipulations, arms deals, Russian-connected corruption, Mid-East intrigue and controlling interests in international gas and oil projects.
Toledo spoke at length with Maiman, first asking him to try to purchase or otherwise take over Baruch Ivchers Frecuencia Latina, whose Channel Two had been giving Toledo some negative press. Maiman, however, was more interested in another of Toledos proposals. Toledo was upset that after Garcia placed second in the election (which required a runoff election) and that the news had not generated more financial panic than it 'deserved', considering that Garcias previous government (1985-1990) was marked by disastrous inflation in Peru. Yet one week after the election, the Peruvian New Sol was still unchanged and stable on the currency markets.
This piqued Maimans interest. The Monday following this meeting, a systematic attack was begun from Switzerland and Israel against the Peruvian Sol and Peruvian Brady bonds. This Bear market raid led to a 7% decline in the price of Peruvian Bradys and a drop in the Sol from S/ 3.53 to 3.59 per US dollar. The success of the currency devaluation move helped Toledo rise in the polls and inspired Toledo to try another tour of New York and Washington, with an eye to tapping his old pal Soros for some more ready cash. Readers of these reports will recall that the reasons for Soros investments in Toledo were to take advantage of currency fluctuations caused by Toledos demonstrations, riots and inflammatory statements. When Toledo, after pocketing a million in July alone, hit on Soros for more money in October of last year, he was turned down because Soros hadnt gotten the desired result for his money. In other words, although the July 28 riots caused death and destruction for the Peruvian people, there was no sharp change in the Sols rate of exchange.
Soros history of currency manipulations is legion, and hes been accustomed to winning as he had done in Peru in 1989 &1992, in England in 1992, in Russia in 1996-7, and in Thailand in1997. But without currency market fluctuations, there was no gain.
Thus Toledo, having manipulated a 2% drop in the Sol, felt George would give him more money to create further destabilization of the Sol. Boastful as ever, Toledo boldly announced last Sunday that he would engage in a series of meetings with the heads of 35 US banks, President George W. Bush, and Secretary of State Adam (sic) Powell, among others. He missed the mark somewhat, but he did manage to speak to old friends at Amnesty International; Carters NWO front organization the National Democratic Institute; and a group of tourists at the National Press Club.
He even went on a tour of the White House, but his hopes for more money from Soros were dashed when Soros US director, Miguel Vivanco, told him that the cupboard was bare and no further funds were available. Toledo addressed some eight or nine functionaries of various financial institutions, during which he promised to increase privatizations, especially of Sedapal, the state water utility, and to pay all foreign debt in a timely manner. Those attending were both impressed and relieved. Luckily, they had not heard Toledos discourses in Lima just ten days earlier in which he swore to end privatizations, never to privatize water, and to immediately halt payment on 20% of all outstanding foreign debt. What happened with the money raised (a total of over $1,600,000 dollars from foreign sources) for Toledos March from the Four Winds demonstration?
Among those most surprised to learn of the large amount of money Toledo had raised were the ten to twenty thousand Peruvians who actually supported this demonstration. They not only paid their own way, but also contributed heavily to cover their expenses.
Now they were asking,
What about me? What about my bus fare?
The estimated total expenditure for this march (including the five thousand people who came from outside Lima who were lodged in tents and were fed in communal kitchens, with the Rimac River serving as their sanitation facility) is around $60,000, including bus fare from those provinces. The final tally was $60,000 spent and $1.6 million raised. So, what happened to the rest of the money? Part of the answer is that much of the money was transferred to the United States under the names of Toledo family members.
Unemployed nephew Jorge Toledo, who lives in Toledos million dollar compound in La Molina, and accompanies him on most trips (including the recent excursion to the US) deposited over $500,000 cash in Weisse-Sudameris Bank, Camacho Branch on June 13, 2000; with another $200,000 cash deposit on September 29.
Funds were also transferred to an account in Jorges name at First Union Bank in Charlotte, NC (US) on August 12, August 17 and September 30, 2000. $200,000 each day for a total of $600,000 in just this one bank. This is exclusive of the funds obtained from Soros. The Soros money, according to Toledo spokesman Carlos Bruce, was transferred into Peru in small amounts going into phantom accounts using aliases and co-operative straw men. Funds were then withdrawn and laundered through other accounts, and subsequently used for their intended purpose.
But since these funds came from Soros Open Society Institute in New York, these machinations and the whole transfer plan are clearly in violation of US, N.Y. and Peruvian banking laws. The more that becomes known about Toledo, the one-time Haight-Ashbury party animal, the more he looks like a loser. He now refuses to speak to the press, insists that any debates should be between advisors, and not candidates (comedians have said, "First the chauffeurs will debate, then the bodyguards, then the cooks, etc.".
After polling 36% in a largely uncontested election (less than his 42% in the supposedly fraudulent election of 2000), his 38% standing in current polls is singularly unimpressive, especially considering the millions of dollars and the two years spent in campaigning.
Alan Garcia Perez, who ran the country during a staggering 2,000,000% inflation period and was impotent against terrorists and drug lords, is currently polling 32% after a nine-week low-budget campaign.
It seems that Al Gores not the only one who lost out after Clinton left office.
Return to George Soros and The Rothschild
Return to Latin America and The Global Elite
