# Give War a Chance!

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_cfr_11.htm

by Edward N. Luttwak Foreign Affairs Journal
Published by the Council On Foreign Affairs July/August 1999 from ForeingAffairs-CouncilOnForeingRelations Website
Edward N. Luttwak is Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Premature Peacemaking An unpleasant truth often overlooked is that although war is a great evil, it does have a great virtue: it can resolve political conflicts and lead to peace. This can happen when all belligerents become exhausted or when one wins decisively. Either way the key is that the fighting must continue until a resolution is reached. War brings peace only after passing a culminating phase of violence. Hopes of military success must fade for accommodation to become more attractive than further combat. Since the establishment of the United Nations and the enshrinement of greatpower politics in its Security Council, however, wars among lesser powers have rarely been allowed to run their natural course. Instead, they have typically been interrupted early on, before they could burn themselves out and establish the preconditions for a lasting settlement. Ceasefires and armistices have frequently been imposed under the aegis of the Security Council in order to halt fighting. NATOs intervention in the Kosovo crisis follows this pattern. But a ceasefire tends to arrest warinduced exhaustion and lets belligerents reconstitute and rearm their forces. It intensifies and prolongs the struggle once the ceasefire endsand it does usually end. This was true of the ArabIsraeli war of 194849, which might have come to closure in a matter of weeks if two ceasefires ordained by the Security Council had not let the combatants recuperate.
It has recently been true in the Balkans. Imposed ceasefires frequently interrupted the fighting between Serbs and Croats in Krajina, between the forces of the rump Yugoslav federation and the Croat army, and between the Serbs, Croats, and Muslims in Bosnia. Each time, the opponents used the pause to recruit, train, and equip additional forces for further combat, prolonging the war and widening the scope of its killing and destruction.
Imposed armistices, meanwhileagain, unless followed by negotiated peace accordsartificially freeze conflict and perpetuate a state of war indefinitely by shielding the weaker side from the consequences of refusing to make concessions for peace. The Cold War provided compelling justification for such behavior by the two superpowers, which sometimes collaborated in coercing lesspowerful belligerents to avoid being drawn into their conflicts and clashing directly. Although imposed ceasefires ultimately did increase the total quantity of warfare among the lesser powers, and armistices did perpetuate states of war, both outcomes were clearly lesser evils (from a global point of view) than the possibility of nuclear war. But today, neither Americans nor Russians are inclined to intervene competitively in the wars of lesser powers, so the unfortunate consequences of interrupting war persist while no greater danger is averted.
It might be best for all parties to let minor wars burn themselves out. The Problems of Peacekeepers Today cease-fires and armistices are imposed on lesser powers by multilateral agreement not to avoid greatpower competition but for essentially disinterested and indeed frivolous motives, such as television audiences revulsion at harrowing scenes of war. But this, perversely, can systematically prevent the transformation of war into peace.
The Dayton accords are typical of the genre: they have condemned Bosnia to remain divided into three rival armed camps, with combat suspended momentarily but a state of hostility prolonged indefinitely. Since no side is threatened by defeat and loss, none has a sufficient incentive to negotiate a lasting settlement; because no path to peace is even visible, the dominant priority is to prepare for future war rather than to reconstruct devastated economies and ravaged societies.
Uninterrupted war would certainly have caused further suffering and led to an unjust outcome from one perspective or another, but it would also have led to a more stable situation that would have let the postwar era truly begin. Peace takes hold only when war is truly over. A variety of multilateral organizations now make it their business to intervene in other peoples wars. The defining characteristic of these entities is that they insert themselves in war situations while refusing to engage in combat. In the long run this only adds to the damage. If the United Nations helped the strong defeat the weak faster and more decisively, it would actually enhance the peacemaking potential of war.
But the first priority of U.N. peacekeeping contingents is to avoid casualties among their own personnel. Unit commanders therefore habitually appease the locally stronger force, accepting its dictates and tolerating its abuses. This appeasement is not strategically purposeful, as siding with the stronger power overall would be; rather, it merely reflects the determination of each U.N. unit to avoid confrontation. The final result is to prevent the emergence of a coherent outcome, which requires an imbalance of strength sufficient to end the fighting. Peacekeepers chary of violence are also unable to effectively protect civilians who are caught up in the fighting or deliberately attacked. At best, U.N. peacekeeping forces have been passive spectators to outrages and massacres, as in Bosnia and Rwanda; at worst, they collaborate with it, as Dutch U.N. troops did in the fall of Srebenica by helping the Bosnian Serbs separate the men of military age from the rest of the population. The very presence of U.N. forces, meanwhile, inhibits the normal remedy of endangered civilians, which is to escape from the combat zone. Deluded into thinking that they will be protected, civilians in danger remain in place until it is too late to flee. During the 199294 siege of Sarajevo, appeasement interacted with the pretense of protection in an especially perverse manner: U.N. personnel inspected outgoing flights to prevent the escape of Sarajevo civilians in obedience to a ceasefire agreement negotiated with the locally dominant Bosnian Serbs who habitually violated that deal. The more sensible, realistic response to a raging war would have been for the Muslims to either flee the city or drive the Serbs out. Institutions such as the European Union, the Western European Union, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe lack even the U.N.s rudimentary command structure and personnel, yet they too now seek to intervene in warlike situations, with predictable consequences. Bereft of forces even theoretically capable of combat, they satisfy the interventionist urges of member states (or their own institutional ambitions) by sending unarmed or lightly armed observer missions, which have the same problems as U.N. peacekeeping missions, only more so. Military organizations such as NATO or the West African Peacekeeping Force (ECOMOG, recently at work in Sierra Leone) are capable of stopping warfare. Their interventions still have the destructive consequence of prolonging the state of war, but they can at least protect civilians from its consequences. Even that often fails to happen, however, because multinational military commands engaged in disinterested interventions tend to avoid any risk of combat, thereby limiting their effectiveness. U.S. troops in Bosnia, for example, repeatedly failed to arrest known war criminals passing through their checkpoints lest this provoke confrontation. Multinational commands, moreover, find it difficult to control the quality and conduct of member states troops, which can reduce the performance of all forces involved to the lowest common denominator. This was true of otherwise fine British troops in Bosnia and of the Nigerian marines in Sierra Leone. The phenomenon of troop degradation can rarely be detected by external observers, although its consequences are abundantly visible in the litter of dead, mutilated, raped, and tortured victims that attends such interventions.
The true state of affairs is illuminated by the rare exception, such as the vigorous Danish tank battalion in Bosnia that replied to any attack on it by firing back in full force, quickly stopping the fighting.
The First PostHeroic War All prior examples of disinterested warfare and its crippling limitations, however, have been cast into shadow by NATOs current intervention against Serbia for the sake of Kosovo. The alliance has relied on airpower alone to minimize the risk of NATO casualties, bombing targets in Serbia, Montenegro, and Kosovo for weeks without losing a single pilot.
This seemingly miraculous immunity from Yugoslav antiaircraft guns and missiles was achieved by multiple layers of precautions.
First, for all the noise and imagery suggestive of a massive operation, very few strike sorties were actually flown during the first few weeks. That reduced the risks to pilots and aircraft but of course also limited the scope of the bombing to a mere fraction of NATOs potential.
Second, the air campaign targeted airdefense systems first and foremost, minimizing present and future allied casualties, though at the price of very limited destruction and the loss of any shock effect.
Third, NATO avoided most antiaircraft weapons by releasing munitions not from optimal altitudes but from an ultrasafe 15,000 feet or more.
Fourth, the alliance greatly restricted its operations in lessthanperfect weather conditions.
NATO officials complained that dense clouds were impeding the bombing campaign, often limiting nightly operations to a few cruisemissile strikes against fixed targets of known location. In truth, what the cloud ceiling prohibited was not all bombinglowaltitude attacks could easily have taken placebut rather perfectly safe bombing. On the ground far beneath the highflying planes, small groups of Serb soldiers and police in armored vehicles were terrorizing hundreds of thousands of Albanian Kosovars. NATO has a panoply of aircraft designed for finding and destroying such vehicles. All its major powers have antitank helicopters, some equipped to operate without base support. But no country offered to send them into Kosovo when the ethnic cleansing beganafter all, they might have been shot down.
When U.S. Apache helicopters based in Germany were finally ordered to Albania, in spite of the vast expenditure devoted to their instantaneous readiness over the years, they required more than three weeks of predeployment preparations to make the journey. Six weeks into the war, the Apaches had yet to fly their first mission, although two had already crashed during training.
More than mere bureaucratic footdragging was responsible for this inordinate delay: the U.S. Army insisted that the Apaches could not operate on their own, but would need the support of heavy rocket barrages to suppress Serb antiaircraft weapons. This created a much larger logistical load than the Apaches alone, and an additional, evidently welcome delay. Even before the Apache saga began, NATO already had aircraft deployed on Italian bases that could have done the job just as well: U.S. a10 Warthogs built around their powerful 30 mm antitank guns and British Royal Air Force Harriers ideal for low-altitude bombing at close range. Neither was employed, again because it could not be done in perfect safety.
In the calculus of the NATO democracies, the immediate possibility of saving thousands of Albanians from massacre and hundreds of thousands from deportation was obviously not worth the lives of a few pilots. That may reflect unavoidable political reality, but it demonstrates how even a largescale disinterested intervention can fail to achieve its ostensibly humanitarian aim.
It is worth wondering whether the Kosovars would have been better off had NATO simply done nothing.
Refugee Nations The most disinterested of all interventions in warand the most destructiveare humanitarian relief activities. The largest and most protracted is the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). It was built on the model of its predecessor, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency (UNRRA), which operated displacedpersons camps in Europe immediately after World War II. The UNRWA was established immediately after the 194849 ArabIsraeli war to feed, shelter, educate, and provide health services for Arab refugees who had fled Israeli zones in the former territory of Palestine. By keeping refugees alive in spartan conditions that encouraged their rapid emigration or local resettlement, the UNRRAs camps in Europe had assuaged postwar resentments and helped disperse revanchist concentrations of national groups. But UNRWA camps in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip provided on the whole a higher standard of living than most Arab villagers had previously enjoyed, with a more varied diet, organized schooling, superior medical care, and no backbreaking labor in stony fields.
They had, therefore, the opposite effect, becoming desirable homes rather than eagerly abandoned transit camps. With the encouragement of several Arab countries, the UNRWA turned escaping civilians into lifelong refugees who gave birth to refugee children, who have in turn had refugee children of their own. During its halfcentury of operation, the UNRWA has thus perpetuated a Palestinian refugee nation, preserving its resentments in as fresh a condition as they were in 1948 and keeping the first bloom of revanchist emotion intact. By its very existence, the UNRWA dissuades integration into local society and inhibits emigration. The concentration of Palestinians in the camps, moreover, has facilitated the voluntary or forced enlistment of refugee youths by armed organizations that fight both Israel and each other. The UNRWA has contributed to a halfcentury of ArabIsraeli violence and still retards the advent of peace. If each European war had been attended by its own postwar UNRWA, todays Europe would be filled with giant camps for millions of descendants of uprooted Gallo-Romans, abandoned Vandals, defeated Burgundians, and misplaced Visigoths not to speak of more recent refugee nations such as post-1945 Sudeten Germans (three million of whom were expelled from Czechoslovakia in 1945). Such a Europe would have remained a mosaic of warring tribes, undigested and un-reconciled in their separate feeding camps. It might have assuaged consciences to help each one at each remove, but it would have led to permanent instability and violence. The UNRWA has counterparts elsewhere, such as the Cambodian camps along the Thai border, which incidentally provided safe havens for the massmurdering Khmer Rouge. But because the United Nations is limited by stingy national contributions, these camps sabotage of peace is at least localized. That is not true of the proliferating, feverishly competitive nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that now aid war refugees. Like any other institution, these NGOs are interested in perpetuating themselves, which means that their first priority is to attract charitable contributions by being seen to be active in highvisibility situations.
Only the most dramatic natural disasters attract any significant massmedia attention, and then only briefly; soon after an earthquake or flood, the cameras depart. War refugees, by contrast, can win sustained press coverage if kept concentrated in reasonably accessible camps. Regular warfare among welldeveloped countries is rare and offers few opportunities for such NGOs, so they focus their efforts on aiding refugees in the poorest parts of the world. This ensures that the food, shelter, and health care offered although abysmal by Western standards exceeds what is locally available to non-refugees.
The consequences are entirely predictable. Among many examples, the huge refugee camps along the Democratic Republic of Congos border with Rwanda stand out. They sustain a Hutu nation that would otherwise have been dispersed, making the consolidation of Rwanda impossible and providing a base for radicals to launch more Tutsi-killing raids across the border. Humanitarian intervention has worsened the chances of a stable, long-term resolution of the tensions in Rwanda. To keep refugee nations intact and preserve their resentments forever is bad enough, but inserting material aid into ongoing conflicts is even worse. Many NGOs that operate in an odor of sanctity routinely supply active combatants. Defenseless, they cannot exclude armed warriors from their feeding stations, clinics, and shelters.
Since refugees are presumptively on the losing side, the warriors among them are usually in retreat. By intervening to help, NGOs systematically impede the progress of their enemies toward a decisive victory that could end the war. Sometimes NGOs, impartial to a fault, even help both sides, thus preventing mutual exhaustion and a resulting settlement. And in some extreme cases, such as Somalia, NGOs even pay protection money to local war bands, which use those funds to buy arms.
Those NGOs are therefore helping prolong the warfare whose consequences they ostensibly seek to mitigate.
Make War to Make Peace Too many wars nowadays become endemic conflicts that never end because the transformative effects of both decisive victory and exhaustion are blocked by outside intervention. Unlike the ancient problem of war, however, the compounding of its evils by disinterested interventions is a new malpractice that could be curtailed.
Policy elites should actively resist the emotional impulse to intervene in other peoples wars not because they are indifferent to human suffering but precisely because they care about it and want to facilitate the advent of peace. The United States should dissuade multilateral interventions instead of leading them.
New rules should be established for U.N. refugee relief activities to ensure that immediate succor is swiftly followed by repatriation, local absorption, or emigration, ruling out the establishment of permanent refugee camps. And although it may not be possible to constrain interventionist NGOs, they should at least be neither officially encouraged nor funded.
Underlying these seemingly perverse measures would be a true appreciation of wars paradoxical logic and a commitment to let it serve its sole useful function: to bring peace.
Return to 'War on Terror'
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The Council on Foreign Relations
