# Global 2000 -  Depopulation file - Part Two

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/master_file/global2000part2.htm

GLOBAL 2000 (Part 2)
The Plan to Kill Three
Billion Entities
and what you can do about it, if you don't like the idea
Poison now being put into beef
to deliberately create cancer and other illnesses
(Depopulation by slow death is good business for A.M.A. (American
medical Association)
(From Revelations of Awareness 82-4)
This Awareness indicates that for entities to hope to survive through the end of the century, the survival will require that entities be very much aware of what is occurring. This Awareness suggests for example, the program is in effect whereby beef is used to poison entities with certain additives put into the beef which has a growing effect on the system of creating various physical problems, including heart conditions, cancerous conditions, and a dullness of the mind, whereby the mind ceases to lose its ability to think clearly; these additives in the beef as that which has been introduced with the knowledge of the medical profession. (The Cancer $$ Industry - Read about how the billion dollar "War on Cancer" is going nowhere)
This Awareness indicates that this type of program can be expected to continue in other areas also; that these additives may be added to chicken, turkey, pork, and other areas (such as dairy products-Ed.). This Awareness indicates that during the future years, those entities on a vegetarian diet will survive best in terms of food intake. This Awareness indicates that also those who raise their own or receive food from known sources, not using commercial feeds. This Awareness indicates that there are also programs being prepared whereby masses shall be destroyed through plagues and biological warfare.
This Awareness indicates that there is not a great deal of hope for the masses of humanity at this time, depending on whether new levels of awareness and planning can be brought upon this plane. This Awareness indicates that entities seeking security upon this plane shall find it is a fleeting guest; and entities identifying with the physical, shall find it a poor foundation. Entities who are aware, and identify with consciousness itself, who are aware that the universe is teeming with life, that space itself is alive, and that to identify with the Akasha or spirit of the universe is the only security and stability that is permanent and lasting; these entities can survive psychologically, without great stress and fear, until that time when they leave this plane. This Awareness indicates that those who cling in fear to the physical matter, these entities shall not enjoy the plane, the physical life in which they reside.
This Awareness suggests that you not make your permanent home the physical plane, but consider this as a brief visit from higher dimensions, and that you consider your true home that which is in Celestria, that which is in the Spirit, the Akasha, the consciousness of the universe. This Awareness indicates that wherein this is experienced, this becomes a new level of awareness, a new reality, one which can give you the sense of being Who in Fact, You Really Are.
This Awareness indicates that meanwhile, you may enjoy the vacation upon this plane, or the sentence which you are enduring upon this plane,--depending on how you wish to view your presence here.
Mass mismanagement and ignorance the basic reason for mass poverty
This Awareness indicates that this is the result of mass-mismanagement upon this plane, brought on in part by lack of education, lack of funds for education, through manipulation of money and its power, whereby certain nations were left to flounder in ignorance and poverty, while certain segments grew rich and wealthy and gained power, whereby education has been limited or curtailed by religious dogma, and by lack of energy, money, or dedication to the principles of healing and teaching.
This Awareness indicates that the mismanagement as that which began hundreds of years ago, and has continued in the pursuit of power, rather than in the pursuit of teaching, sharing and cooperation among entities, among nations, among cultures.
Success or failure of Global 2000 depends on how fast consciousness awakens
This Awareness indicates that It wishes to also inform entities that the degree of success of the Global 2000 program and the annihilation of 3 billion entities or more will depend largely on the speed at which consciousness upon this plane awakens. This Awareness indicates that in some areas,, it is awakening quickly; in other areas, it is no further evolved than it was one thousand or two thousand years ago. This Awareness indicates that It does not see any miraculous solution available to make a perfect world without intense changes occurring on this plane. This Awareness indicates however, that the degree of chaos and change is that which can be considered. This Awareness indicates that changes are coming, these coming soon; and the intensities and degree of change is that which may vary, according to the level of consciousness and the responsiveness of entities to the urgencies which come forth.
