# Global Warming Gaffe, Flukraine's Folly, Mossad Mendacity - Connecting 
The Dots

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_endgame09.htm

by Sott Editors 03 December 2009
from SOTT Website
Time magazine cover
April 1977
The First Global Revolution, A Report by the Council of the Club of Rome (King, Schneider 1991):
"The need for enemies seems to be a common historical factor. Some states have striven to overcome domestic failure and internal contradictions by blaming external enemies. The ploy of finding a scapegoat is as old as mankind itself - when things become too difficult at home, divert attention to adventure abroad. Bring the divided nation together to face an outside enemy, either a real one, or else one invented for the purpose." (p.71)
"The need for enemies seems to be a common historical factor. Some states have striven to overcome domestic failure and internal contradictions by blaming external enemies.
The ploy of finding a scapegoat is as old as mankind itself - when things become too difficult at home, divert attention to adventure abroad. Bring the divided nation together to face an outside enemy, either a real one, or else one invented for the purpose."
(p.71)
The common enemy of humanity is Man
"In searching for a common enemy against whom we can unite, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine and the like, would fit the bill. In their totality and their interactions these phenomena do constitute a common threat which must be confronted by everyone together. But in designating these dangers as the enemy, we fall into the trap, which we have already warned readers about, namely mistaking symptoms for causes. All these dangers are caused by human intervention in natural processes, and it is only through changed attitudes and behaviour that they can be overcome. The real enemy then is humanity itself." (p.75)
"In searching for a common enemy against whom we can unite, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine and the like, would fit the bill. In their totality and their interactions these phenomena do constitute a common threat which must be confronted by everyone together.
But in designating these dangers as the enemy, we fall into the trap, which we have already warned readers about, namely mistaking symptoms for causes. All these dangers are caused by human intervention in natural processes, and it is only through changed attitudes and behaviour that they can be overcome. The real enemy then is humanity itself."
(p.75)
Against The Tide - A Critical Review by Scientists of How Physics and Astronomy Get Done, W. Kundt, 2008:
The term 'Gold Effect' was coined by Raymond Lyttleton in [1981], after a conversation with [Austrian astrophysicist Thomas Gold] during which Gold had explained how a mere unqualified belief can occasionally be converted into a generally accepted scientific theory - a dogma - through the screening action of refereed literature, of meetings planned by scientific organizing committees, and through the distribution of funds controlled by 'club opinions'.
A dish best served cold
With perfect timing, someone managed to sneak into a server of the University of East Anglia's Climate Research Unit (Hadley CRU) - a stronghold of scientists who support the anthropogenic global warming theory - steal thousands of files and email exchanges, and publish them on the Internet.
We say it is perfect timing because the 15th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) takes place in Copenhagen from the 7th to the 15th of December.
Hadley CRU's record is one of the four official sources of global temperature data used by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). As such, the authors of the emails compose a small group of key scientists who have been most influential in driving the global warming agenda for years. The significance of the emails is that they suggest manipulation of data to support their thesis; there are also private admissions that the globe is not warming as they would expect; as well as indications of peer pressure to exclude global warming skeptics from the debate.
There is also a great deal of animosity against their opponents, but that is hardly surprising for anyone who has witnessed how many individuals within the scientific community are driven more by their egos than conscience. Perhaps the most damning email is the one written by (now former) CRU director Phil Jones:
I've just completed Mike's Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) and from 1961 for Keith's to hide the decline. Mike's series got the annual land and marine values while the other two got April-Sept for NH land N of 20N. The latter two are real for 1999, while the estimate for 1999 for NH combined is +0.44C wrt 61-90. The Global estimate for 1999 with data through Oct is +0.35C cf. 0.57 for 1998.
I've just completed Mike's Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) and from 1961 for Keith's to hide the decline. Mike's series got the annual land and marine values while the other two got April-Sept for NH land N of 20N.
The latter two are real for 1999, while the estimate for 1999 for NH combined is +0.44C wrt 61-90. The Global estimate for 1999 with data through Oct is +0.35C cf. 0.57 for 1998.
Phil Jones claimed that the word 'trick' was used "colloquially, as in "a clever thing to do" and that it "is ludicrous to suggest that it refers to anything untoward."
Bob Ward, director of policy and communications at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics, defended Jones by arguing that,
"scientists say 'trick' not just to mean deception. They mean it as a clever way of doing something - a short cut can be a trick."
While this may be technically correct, it does not explain why a scientist would make use of a "clever short cut" to hide the decline of temperatures. Another interesting email reads:
...Phil [Jones] and I have recently submitted a paper using about a dozen NH [Northern Hemisphere] records that fit this category, and many of which are available nearly 2K back - I think that trying to adopt a timeframe of 2K, rather than the usual 1K, addresses a good earlier point that Peck made w/ regard to the memo, that it would be nice to try to "contain" the putative "MWP" [Medieval Warming Period], even if we don't yet have a hemispheric mean reconstruction available that far back...
What they are discussing here is extending the record back another 1,000 years in order to "contain" the Medieval Warming Period.
By emphasizing that the MWP was limited to a certain period of time and that it was preceded by a cool period, it could be portrayed as a 'blip' in the overall trend, so buttressing their case that recent warming is unique. However, their problem was that the Northern Hemisphere records from beyond 1,000 years ago up to 2,000 years ago was sparse and therefore wasn't as robust as the last 1,000 years.
So they were not trying to 'hide' the MWP as such, but they did nevertheless downplay its significance by relying on the 'dozen' data which represented global temperatures that just happened to be cooler than the MWP in the preceding 1000 years. Thing is though, that was the only data available to these scientists.
Although the data had temporal (time series) coverage, it lacked spatial coverage: twelve data points. The following, by Kevin Trenberth (from the US National Center for Atmospheric Research) is particularly interesting:
The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't. The CERES data published in the August BAMS 09 supplement on 2008 shows there should be even more warming: but the data are surely wrong. Our observing system is inadequate.
Although at first glance this appears to be evidence of yet another "trick", Trenberth - who has in the past written articles wondering why the planet is not warming as the models predicted - may simply be expressing an honest concern.
He is saying that the data coming from the satellite CERES (The Clouds and the Earth's Radiant Energy System), points to more warming, but that this is not being measured by thermometers on the ground. (CERES is part of the EOS program - Earth Observation System - and it is used to "study the energy exchanged between the Sun; the Earth's atmosphere, surface and clouds; and outer space.")
Trenberth is claiming that the data measured by the satellite shows a global energy budget that should be warming the planet when in fact it is not. He then says "the data are surely wrong" because they do not correlate with the fact that the Earth is cooling, therefore the observing system - of the satellites - is "inadequate." What makes this so interesting is that it shows how a small group of elite scientists responsible for key data - such as that coming from a satellite - have the power to influence what data the scientific community at large receive, and there is little or no oversight to guarantee that their data is correct.
In fact, we might wonder if such key pieces of information are not subject to intentional manipulation from parties that care little for the truth when it conflicts with their agenda.
Something that, unfortunately, can very easily occur because the scientific establishment is similar in structure to any corporate or military establishment: it's bureaucratic, hierarchical and each field of study is compartmentalized, rendering honest and open communication between scientists across fields difficult, non-existent even.
The corporate nature of modern research itself has only increased this power of elite scientists and generated further isolation between 'lower echelon' scientists by promoting ideals of competition, backstabbing and mistrust:
Choosing research problems can be likened to an investment process (Bourdieu 1975, 1988). Scientists have available a certain amount of "capital" - knowledge, experience, time and effort - that they can invest in different ways. A conservative investment strategy is to pursue small, incremental innovations, with a high likelihood of success and a modest return of investment.[...] A risky strategy is to pursue a speculative idea: the likelihood of success may be low but the returns, if the idea pans out, can be huge.[...]A different investment calculation comes into play, though, when it comes to someone else's ideas. To examine or even promote someone else's challenge to orthodoxy requires significant time and energy, yet the major returns go to another person, if they are recognized as the innovator. If the idea is a promising one, the temptation is to grab credit, for example by domesticating the radical idea and publishing in orthodox journals. It is no surprise that many innovators are afraid of having their ideas stolen. (Against the Tide - a critical review by scientists of how physics and astronomy get done by J.M Campanario and B.Martin)
Choosing research problems can be likened to an investment process (Bourdieu 1975, 1988). Scientists have available a certain amount of "capital" - knowledge, experience, time and effort - that they can invest in different ways.
A conservative investment strategy is to pursue small, incremental innovations, with a high likelihood of success and a modest return of investment.[...] A risky strategy is to pursue a speculative idea: the likelihood of success may be low but the returns, if the idea pans out, can be huge.[...]A different investment calculation comes into play, though, when it comes to someone else's ideas. To examine or even promote someone else's challenge to orthodoxy requires significant time and energy, yet the major returns go to another person, if they are recognized as the innovator.
If the idea is a promising one, the temptation is to grab credit, for example by domesticating the radical idea and publishing in orthodox journals. It is no surprise that many innovators are afraid of having their ideas stolen.
(Against the Tide - a critical review by scientists of how physics and astronomy get done by J.M Campanario and B.Martin)
There are a few other interesting emails, mostly because they show how little respect these scientists have for their colleagues, by expressing their desire to "beat the crap out of" skeptics, or gloating over the death of one of the first climate change skeptics, commenting:
"In an odd way this is cheering news."
Clearly a famous quote from Max Planck (1949, 33-34) is still relevant today as never before:
"A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it."
Or, as it is more euphemistically paraphrased, "Science advances funeral by funeral." As we continue to go over "hacked" emails, in another example we find one of the scientists emailing the journal Climate Research to tell them "I'm having nothing more to do with it until they rid themselves of this troublesome editor" who had published articles that were skeptical of global warming. For more of these jewels, visit here (for a selection) and here (for a complete list). The above described method of squeezing dissenting scientists out of the peer review process proved to be very successful thanks largely to the concept of 'anonymous peer review' suggested by 'someone' at NSF or on the National Science Board:
In 1951, the U.S Congress established the National Science Foundation (NSF) to provide financial support for post-World War II scientific research. Soon thereafter, someone at NSF or on the National Science Board, which is charged with oversight of NSF, had an idea, a really corrosive idea, the implementation of which would lead to the perversion and corruption of American science for decades ahead. The idea was that reviewers of scientific proposals to NSF for government research grant money should be anonymous; the crux of the idea being that anonymity would encourage honesty in evaluation even when those reviewers might be competitors or might have vested interests. Thus the concept of anonymous peer review was birthed.[...]For decades, the use of anonymity within NSF, NASA, and elsewhere has been gradually corrupting American science. Unethical reviewers - secure, camouflaged, masked and hidden through anonymity - all too often make untrue and/or pejorative statements to eliminate their professional competitors. Nowadays, it is a pervasive, corrupt system that encourages and rewards the darkest elements of human nature. (Basic Cause of Current Corruption in American Science, Herndon, J. Marvin, 2008)
In 1951, the U.S Congress established the National Science Foundation (NSF) to provide financial support for post-World War II scientific research. Soon thereafter, someone at NSF or on the National Science Board, which is charged with oversight of NSF, had an idea, a really corrosive idea, the implementation of which would lead to the perversion and corruption of American science for decades ahead.
The idea was that reviewers of scientific proposals to NSF for government research grant money should be anonymous; the crux of the idea being that anonymity would encourage honesty in evaluation even when those reviewers might be competitors or might have vested interests. Thus the concept of anonymous peer review was birthed.[...]For decades, the use of anonymity within NSF, NASA, and elsewhere has been gradually corrupting American science. Unethical reviewers - secure, camouflaged, masked and hidden through anonymity - all too often make untrue and/or pejorative statements to eliminate their professional competitors.
Nowadays, it is a pervasive, corrupt system that encourages and rewards the darkest elements of human nature.
(Basic Cause of Current Corruption in American Science, Herndon, J. Marvin, 2008)
And so it appears that the state of science nowadays is decaying and waiting for its death, while many of the people who are unfamiliar with the inner workings of the scientific community still hold a somewhat naive misconception that science is the last bastion of truth and objectivity.
Therefore we would like to offer our readers a small peek into the history of scientific research by exploring "how science really works" and consider if there is any contributing factor that made it possible for the core principles of scientific research to gradually become corrupted and be used to further political agendas:
The most common view about how science works is that new ideas are judged on the basis of evidence and logic: if a new idea explains more data or provides more precise agreement with experiment, this counts strongly in its favor.Karl Popper claimed that science advances by falsification (Popper 1963). In his view, it is the duty of scientists to attempt to disprove theories, confronting them with experimental data and rejecting them if they do not explain the data. Theories that cannot be falsified are, according to Popper, not scientific. Many scientists believe in falsificationism. The Minority Report These conventional views were challenged by Thomas Kuhn (1970). Kuhn argued that scientists - and physicists in particular, since most of his historical examples were from physics - adhere to a paradigm, which is a set of assumptions and standard practices for undertaking research. If an experiment gives results contradictory to theory, then instead of rejecting the theory all together, alternative responses include rejecting the experiment as untrustworthy and modifying the theory to account for the new results (Chia 1998; Chinn and Brewer 1993).When anomalies accumulate, the paradigm can enter a state of crisis and be ripe for overthrow by a new paradigm. This process of scientific revolution does not proceed solely according to a rational procedure but involves social factors such as belief systems and political arrangements. [...]In any case, the idea of paradigms puts a different spin on the problem of new ideas in science. Rather than being dealt with according to logic and evidence, challenging ideas may be ignored or rejected out of hand because they conflict with current models. In effect, the logic and evidence used to establish the paradigm are treated as definitive and are unquestioningly preferred over any new logic and evidence offered that challenge the paradigm. During periods of "normal science", the ideas developed by mainstream scientists originate from current paradigms: they add more and more pieces to standard puzzles. Given that the paradigm is the source of ideas, it is not surprising that challenges to the paradigm - the framework that allowed mainstream scientists to contribute to the development of science - are seldom greeted with open arms. If a theory is not considered physically plausible, it may be rejected even though it makes successful predictions. (Against the Tide - a critical review by scientists of how physics and astronomy get done, J.M Campanario and B.Martin, 2004)
The most common view about how science works is that new ideas are judged on the basis of evidence and logic: if a new idea explains more data or provides more precise agreement with experiment, this counts strongly in its favor.Karl Popper claimed that science advances by falsification (Popper 1963). In his view, it is the duty of scientists to attempt to disprove theories, confronting them with experimental data and rejecting them if they do not explain the data. Theories that cannot be falsified are, according to Popper, not scientific.
Many scientists believe in falsificationism.
The Minority Report
These conventional views were challenged by Thomas Kuhn (1970).
Kuhn argued that scientists - and physicists in particular, since most of his historical examples were from physics - adhere to a paradigm, which is a set of assumptions and standard practices for undertaking research. If an experiment gives results contradictory to theory, then instead of rejecting the theory all together, alternative responses include rejecting the experiment as untrustworthy and modifying the theory to account for the new results (Chia 1998; Chinn and Brewer 1993).When anomalies accumulate, the paradigm can enter a state of crisis and be ripe for overthrow by a new paradigm. This process of scientific revolution does not proceed solely according to a rational procedure but involves social factors such as belief systems and political arrangements. [...]In any case, the idea of paradigms puts a different spin on the problem of new ideas in science. Rather than being dealt with according to logic and evidence, challenging ideas may be ignored or rejected out of hand because they conflict with current models.
In effect, the logic and evidence used to establish the paradigm are treated as definitive and are unquestioningly preferred over any new logic and evidence offered that challenge the paradigm. During periods of "normal science", the ideas developed by mainstream scientists originate from current paradigms: they add more and more pieces to standard puzzles.
Given that the paradigm is the source of ideas, it is not surprising that challenges to the paradigm - the framework that allowed mainstream scientists to contribute to the development of science - are seldom greeted with open arms.
If a theory is not considered physically plausible, it may be rejected even though it makes successful predictions.
(Against the Tide - a critical review by scientists of how physics and astronomy get done, J.M Campanario and B.Martin, 2004)
Returning to the matter at hand, we are not suggesting that the scientists involved in the "Climategate" affair are all conspiring in the sense that they had a secret meeting and said "oh, let's have a conspiracy!"
However, it is clear that, generally speaking, this group of people have behaved in certain ways that they know are dishonest at a fundamental level; they use subconscious selection and substitution of premises and data to justify their theory in their own minds. This is mainly a subconscious process though it has to be conscious in some respects.
Indeed, the fact that US paleoclimatologist Michael Mann, who features prominently in the emails, said that "regardless of how cherry-picked" the emails are, there is "absolutely nothing in any of the emails that calls into the question the deep level of consensus of climate change," speaks volumes.
For Mann, it is the consensus that counts - not the truth. In 2007 Professor Richard Lindzen described in the Wall Street Journal the tremendous pressure upon scientists to conform to the manufactured consensus:
Scientists who dissent from the alarmism have seen their grant funds disappear, their work derided, and themselves libeled as industry stooges, scientific hacks or worse. Consequently, lies about climate change gain credence even when they fly in the face of the science that supposedly is their basis.To understand the misconceptions perpetuated about climate science and the climate of intimidation, one needs to grasp some of the complex underlying scientific issues. First, let's start where there is agreement. The public, press and policy makers have been repeatedly told that three claims have widespread scientific support: Global temperature has risen about a degree since the late 19th century; levels of CO2 in the atmosphere have increased by about 30% over the same period; and CO2 should contribute to future warming. These claims are true. However, what the public fails to grasp is that the claims neither constitute support for alarm nor establish man's responsibility for the small amount of warming that has occurred. In fact, those who make the most outlandish claims of alarm are actually demonstrating skepticism of the very science they say supports them. It isn't just that the alarmists are trumpeting model results that we know must be wrong. It is that they are trumpeting catastrophes that couldn't happen even if the models were right as justifying costly policies to try to prevent global warming.
Scientists who dissent from the alarmism have seen their grant funds disappear, their work derided, and themselves libeled as industry stooges, scientific hacks or worse. Consequently, lies about climate change gain credence even when they fly in the face of the science that supposedly is their basis.To understand the misconceptions perpetuated about climate science and the climate of intimidation, one needs to grasp some of the complex underlying scientific issues.
First, let's start where there is agreement. The public, press and policy makers have been repeatedly told that three claims have widespread scientific support: Global temperature has risen about a degree since the late 19th century; levels of CO2 in the atmosphere have increased by about 30% over the same period; and CO2 should contribute to future warming.
These claims are true. However, what the public fails to grasp is that the claims neither constitute support for alarm nor establish man's responsibility for the small amount of warming that has occurred. In fact, those who make the most outlandish claims of alarm are actually demonstrating skepticism of the very science they say supports them.
It isn't just that the alarmists are trumpeting model results that we know must be wrong. It is that they are trumpeting catastrophes that couldn't happen even if the models were right as justifying costly policies to try to prevent global warming.
In other words, people like Mann or Ben Santer - who in 1996 was accused of altering Chapter 8 of the 1995 IPCC report on the science of climate change by deleting phrases that suggested scientific doubts about human influences on climate to make the report conform to the IPCC Summary for Policymakers - have betrayed their scientific integrity - if they ever had any - by towing the 'party line'.
They know that this will keep them well funded and will secure their jobs and prestige, so it is much easier to ignore inconvenient facts and accept Al Gore's convenient "truth".
They have made a decision to support a particular world view that has been 'decided before hand, and the data be damned'.
As cogs in the Conspiracy Machine, they are certainly part of The Conspiracy:
A conspiracy stratagem was openly presented by Maurice Strong, a godfather of the global environmental movement, and a former senior advisor to Kofi Annan, the U.N. Secretary-General. In 1972 Strong was a Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, which launched the world environment movement, and he has played a critical role in its globalization. In 1992 Strong was the Secretary-General of the "World Summit" conference in Rio de Janeiro, where on his instigation the foundations for the Kyoto Protocol were laid. In an interview [with Canadian journalist Daniel Wood], Strong disclosed his mindset: "What if a small group of world leaders were to conclude that the principal risk to the Earth comes from the actions of rich countries? And if the world is to survive, those rich countries would have to sign an agreement reducing their impact on the environment. Will they do it? The group's conclusion is "no." The rich countries won't do it. They won't change. So, in order to save the planet, the group decides: Isn't the only hope for the planet that the industrialized civilizations collapse? Isn't it our responsibility to bring that about? This group of world leaders form a secret society to bring about an economic collapse." (Canada West Magazine,1990)
A conspiracy stratagem was openly presented by Maurice Strong, a godfather of the global environmental movement, and a former senior advisor to Kofi Annan, the U.N. Secretary-General.
In 1972 Strong was a Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, which launched the world environment movement, and he has played a critical role in its globalization. In 1992 Strong was the Secretary-General of the "World Summit" conference in Rio de Janeiro, where on his instigation the foundations for the Kyoto Protocol were laid.
In an interview [with Canadian journalist Daniel Wood], Strong disclosed his mindset:
"What if a small group of world leaders were to conclude that the principal risk to the Earth comes from the actions of rich countries? And if the world is to survive, those rich countries would have to sign an agreement reducing their impact on the environment. Will they do it? The group's conclusion is "no." The rich countries won't do it. They won't change. So, in order to save the planet, the group decides: Isn't the only hope for the planet that the industrialized civilizations collapse? Isn't it our responsibility to bring that about? This group of world leaders form a secret society to bring about an economic collapse." (Canada West Magazine,1990)
"What if a small group of world leaders were to conclude that the principal risk to the Earth comes from the actions of rich countries? And if the world is to survive, those rich countries would have to sign an agreement reducing their impact on the environment. Will they do it? The group's conclusion is "no." The rich countries won't do it. They won't change.
So, in order to save the planet, the group decides: Isn't the only hope for the planet that the industrialized civilizations collapse? Isn't it our responsibility to bring that about? This group of world leaders form a secret society to bring about an economic collapse."
(Canada West Magazine,1990)
It is apparent then that a select few "top" scientists seem to be lacking in the conscience department and are leading the "human-made global warming" campaign and have been doing so for at least 10 years.
These few are essentially ponerizing many of the other less "genius" scientists, but not all by any means. It all seems to tie back, through several degrees of separation, to the political elite (Al Gore, anyone?), their friends in high places, the monied banking families of this world and the industries.
Consider Michel Chossudovsky's comments:
The carbon trading system is a multibillion money-making bonanza for the financial establishment. The stakes are extremely high and the various lobby groups on behalf of Wall Street have already positioned themselves.According to a recent report, "the carbon market could become double the size of the vast oil market if the new breed of City players who trade greenhouse gas emissions through the EU's emissions trading scheme have their way... The speed of that growth will depend on whether the Copenhagen summit gives a go-ahead for a low-carbon economy, but Ager says whatever happens schemes such as the ETS will expand around the globe." (Terry Macalister, Carbon trading could be worth twice that of oil in next decade - The Guardian, 28 November 2009) The large financial conglomerates, involved in derivative trade, including JP Morgan Chase, Bank America Merrill Lynch, Barclay's, Citi Bank, Nomura, Société Générale, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are actively involved in carbon trading. (FACTBOX: Investment banks in carbon trading - Reuters, 14 September 2009)
The carbon trading system is a multibillion money-making bonanza for the financial establishment. The stakes are extremely high and the various lobby groups on behalf of Wall Street have already positioned themselves.According to a recent report,
"the carbon market could become double the size of the vast oil market if the new breed of City players who trade greenhouse gas emissions through the EU's emissions trading scheme have their way... The speed of that growth will depend on whether the Copenhagen summit gives a go-ahead for a low-carbon economy, but Ager says whatever happens schemes such as the ETS will expand around the globe."
"the carbon market could become double the size of the vast oil market if the new breed of City players who trade greenhouse gas emissions through the EU's emissions trading scheme have their way...
The speed of that growth will depend on whether the Copenhagen summit gives a go-ahead for a low-carbon economy, but Ager says whatever happens schemes such as the ETS will expand around the globe."
(Terry Macalister, Carbon trading could be worth twice that of oil in next decade - The Guardian, 28 November 2009)
The large financial conglomerates, involved in derivative trade, including JP Morgan Chase, Bank America Merrill Lynch, Barclay's, Citi Bank, Nomura, Société Générale, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are actively involved in carbon trading.
(FACTBOX: Investment banks in carbon trading - Reuters, 14 September 2009)
But perhaps the money angle is not even the main reason behind the elite's support for the man-made global warming campaign. Ultimately, it might be a strategy to 'distract and conquer'.
For starters, distract from the real nature of earth and cosmic changes.
A few examples from this month contradicting the official story on climate change:
Ireland - County Clare lake shows ice age came quickly Climatologists Baffled by Global Warming Time-Out Enjoy the warmth while it lasts Mini Ice Age Took Hold Of Europe In Just Months
Ireland - County Clare lake shows ice age came quickly
Climatologists Baffled by Global Warming Time-Out
Enjoy the warmth while it lasts
Mini Ice Age Took Hold Of Europe In Just Months
But there is much more to distract from.
So forget about Global Warming and keep on reading...
UPDATE
Just as were going to press, there have been a couple of interesting and intimately connected developments.
Al Gore announced that he would not be attending the upcoming summit in Copenhagen, while his close confidante James Hansen, the world's pre-eminent climate scientist and head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies essentially declared that he wishes to see the summit fail:
[Hansen] said any agreement likely to emerge from the negotiations would be so deeply flawed that it would be better to start again from scratch. "I would rather it not happen if people accept that as being the right track because it's a disaster track," said Hansen, who heads the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York."The whole approach is so fundamentally wrong that it is better to reassess the situation. If it is going to be the Kyoto-type thing then [people] will spend years trying to determine exactly what that means."
[Hansen] said any agreement likely to emerge from the negotiations would be so deeply flawed that it would be better to start again from scratch.
"I would rather it not happen if people accept that as being the right track because it's a disaster track," said Hansen, who heads the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York."The whole approach is so fundamentally wrong that it is better to reassess the situation. If it is going to be the Kyoto-type thing then [people] will spend years trying to determine exactly what that means."
It would appear that in spite of the mainstream media's insistence to the contrary, the leaked emails are making waves. We have to ask at this crucial point just days before the man-made global warming road-show hits Copenhagen:
Did the PTB intentionally have them leaked, knowing they would survive "climate-gate"? Are they gunning for failure now, so that a new treaty can be pushed once - they hope - the flak dies down?
Did the PTB intentionally have them leaked, knowing they would survive "climate-gate"?
Are they gunning for failure now, so that a new treaty can be pushed once - they hope - the flak dies down?
Shots that kill
Two by two, hands of blue...
As we reported in last month's Connecting the Dots:
The dangers of the over-hyped vaccine are becoming more and more widespread. In Washington a RedSkins Cheerleader has been crippled for life after being vaccinated. In Sweden, one of the first countries to implement its vaccination program, further deaths linked to the vaccine bring the total to four. If those deaths aren't sufficient warning against vaccination, Swedish nurses are reporting side effects and sickness from the vaccine. Allegedly incompetent medical staff are further adding to safety fears by "over"-dosing children with the H1N1 vaccine.
The dangers of the over-hyped vaccine are becoming more and more widespread. In Washington a RedSkins Cheerleader has been crippled for life after being vaccinated. In Sweden, one of the first countries to implement its vaccination program, further deaths linked to the vaccine bring the total to four.
If those deaths aren't sufficient warning against vaccination, Swedish nurses are reporting side effects and sickness from the vaccine. Allegedly incompetent medical staff are further adding to safety fears by "over"-dosing children with the H1N1 vaccine.
In November, further evidence of the toxicity of the H1N1 vaccine was reported worldwide.
In the US, a Brooklyn girl was hospitalized after being injected with the vaccine without her parents' permission, and a Virginia teen athlete is now wheel-chair bound after receiving his shot.
After the Canadian government cited the need for urgent production in order to roll out a vaccine fortified with controversial adjuvants, there have been predictable consequences:
Manitoba health officials are investigating the deaths of two people who died within a week of getting the H1N1 vaccine shot.However, the province's top doctor said it's unlikely the vaccine caused their deaths.There have been 69 "adverse events" after people received the swine flu shot, and eight were considered serious[...] (CBC.ca report, 17 November 2009)
Manitoba health officials are investigating the deaths of two people who died within a week of getting the H1N1 vaccine shot.However, the province's top doctor said it's unlikely the vaccine caused their deaths.There have been 69 "adverse events" after people received the swine flu shot, and eight were considered serious[...]
(CBC.ca report, 17 November 2009)
An 80-year-old Quebec man died after taking H1N1 vaccine.
The H1N1 flu vaccine has been producing higher levels of anaphylactic reactions among Canadians, prompting manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline to recall shots:
Manitoba announced manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline had asked provinces to temporarily discontinue vaccinating Canadians from a specific batch of vaccine shipped in October. The reason is that there has been a higher ratio of severe adverse reactions to the vaccine among Canadians than from other lots.However, most of the vaccine Manitoba received from the suspect shipment had already been used by the time the province received the alert on Wednesday. Of the 63,000 doses shipped, only 630 remained unused by the four regional health authorities in Manitoba that received them, including Winnipeg's.Kettner said the suspect lot produced serious and immediate anaphylactic reactions in 1 out of 20,000 vaccinations, compared with 1 out of 100,000 in other shipments.
Across the ocean, the German health authorities announced that a 55-year-old man from the eastern state of Thuringia did not die after being immunized for the H1N1 virus despite the fact that an autopsy revealed that he suffered a heart attack on the same day he received his vaccination.
In Slovenia, a patient's heart stopped after taking the H1N1 shot. In the Asian continent, Chinese authorities are investigating two deaths that followed flu vaccinations:
The country's health ministry reported the deaths late Friday on its Web site - the first time China has announced deaths with potential links to the Chinese-made swine flu vaccine. The health ministry statement said 1,235 people had been suspected of having abnormal reactions to the vaccine as of Wednesday. Reactions included fever and swelling. Fifteen people had relatively serious responses such as anaphylactic shock, a severe allergic reaction that can be deadly. The health ministry statement said the vaccines are generally safe and vaccinations will continue.
The country's health ministry reported the deaths late Friday on its Web site - the first time China has announced deaths with potential links to the Chinese-made swine flu vaccine. The health ministry statement said 1,235 people had been suspected of having abnormal reactions to the vaccine as of Wednesday.
Reactions included fever and swelling. Fifteen people had relatively serious responses such as anaphylactic shock, a severe allergic reaction that can be deadly. The health ministry statement said the vaccines are generally safe and vaccinations will continue.
The madness with needles continues regardless of the fact that the flu shot doesn't work anyway and that aspirin kills 400% more people than H1N1 swine flu! Even more so than the last swine flu hoax pandemic in 1976, what is becoming clear is that the whole over-hyped pandemic at present is one of the most massive cover-ups in history.
After much research Dr. Russell Blaylock's key findings should be enough to convince everyone that the vaccine is not safe and not worth taking the risk:
Pregnant Women NOT at Special Risk from Swine Flu Initial Studies Show H1N1 NOT Dangerous or Highly Contagious There is a dramatic disconnect between what the science is discovering about this flu virus and what is being broadcast over the media outlets Majority of Children Respond POORLY to Flu Vaccine Flu Vaccine DOUBLES Risk of Getting H1N1 Obese at Six Times Higher Risk from H1N1 Complications H1N1 Vaccine is NOT Made the Same as Regular Flu Vaccine!! Pregnant Women NOT at Increased Risk, Obese Women Are!! Pediatric Flu Deaths by Year Made WORSE by Flu Vaccine Every Parent Needs to Know Other Vaccines INCREASE Risk of H1N1 Pregnant Women Given Vaccine Have Babies with More Health Problems Actually LESS Flu Deaths this Year Insurance companies in Australia would not insure doctors who gave the vaccine because it was a fast tracked vaccine and therefore experimental.
Pregnant Women NOT at Special Risk from Swine Flu
Initial Studies Show H1N1 NOT Dangerous or Highly Contagious
There is a dramatic disconnect between what the science is discovering about this flu virus and what is being broadcast over the media outlets
Majority of Children Respond POORLY to Flu Vaccine
Flu Vaccine DOUBLES Risk of Getting H1N1
Obese at Six Times Higher Risk from H1N1 Complications
H1N1 Vaccine is NOT Made the Same as Regular Flu Vaccine!!
Pregnant Women NOT at Increased Risk, Obese Women Are!!
Pediatric Flu Deaths by Year Made WORSE by Flu Vaccine
Every Parent Needs to Know Other Vaccines INCREASE Risk of H1N1
Pregnant Women Given Vaccine Have Babies with More Health Problems
Actually LESS Flu Deaths this Year
Insurance companies in Australia would not insure doctors who gave the vaccine because it was a fast tracked vaccine and therefore experimental.
It is interesting to see that Russia is considering withdrawing from the World Health Organisation over its horrendous corruption:
Igor Barinov, Member of the Commission of the State Parliament (Duma) in Charge of Corruption, said that there needed to be an investigation into whether experts advising WHO received money from pharmaceutical industry and whether this influenced WHO to declare a pandemic level 6 emergency for the first time in 40 years in spite of the fact that the swine flu is neither lethal nor spreading rapidly.
Sadly most other Governments are either in bed with Big Pharma and the WHO or are using the pandemic for political gain.
Which brings us to Ukraine... what on earth is going on there???
Flukraine - Swine flu mutating with a strain of politics
"We had to create a phantom and then have a white knight riding in to save the day." - Taras Berezovets, a senior campaign advisor for Tymoshenko's BYuT bloc
"We had to create a phantom and then have a white knight riding in to save the day."
- Taras Berezovets, a senior campaign advisor for Tymoshenko's BYuT bloc
Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, left,
wears a face mask as she visits a regional hospital in Lutsk,
about 400 km (247 miles) west of Kiev, Ukraine, Monday, Nov. 9, 2009.
A newspaper quoted a government official warning that
Ukraine's presidential election in January could be postponed because of swine flu.
The above quotation from the campaign advisor to the Ukrainian Prime Minister provides a good explanation of Ukraine's phantom swine flu:
According to a campaign advisor to Yulia Tymoshenko, the Ukrainian prime minister and presidential candidate purposely inflated fears of an ongoing swine-flu epidemic to aid her presidential run.[...] Since October, Ukraine has been in the grips of a full-blown panic over swine flu, complete with quarantines, school closures, runs on pharmacies. The Ukrainian health system, already badly dilapidated, was caught off guard and almost 400 people died of the flu in just three weeks.Tymoshenko flew into action, organizing a delivery of the antiviral drug Tamiflu - and the requisite press conference - at the Kiev airport in the early morning hours of Nov. 2. She quarantined nine regions of the country, closed all schools and universities, and petitioned the president for $125 million in emergency funds to fight what seemed to be "the plague of the 21st-century plague," as one Ukrainian put it. Incidentally, she also banned all mass gatherings and political rallies - after she had already had hers.
According to a campaign advisor to Yulia Tymoshenko, the Ukrainian prime minister and presidential candidate purposely inflated fears of an ongoing swine-flu epidemic to aid her presidential run.[...]
Since October, Ukraine has been in the grips of a full-blown panic over swine flu, complete with quarantines, school closures, runs on pharmacies. The Ukrainian health system, already badly dilapidated, was caught off guard and almost 400 people died of the flu in just three weeks.Tymoshenko flew into action, organizing a delivery of the antiviral drug Tamiflu - and the requisite press conference - at the Kiev airport in the early morning hours of Nov. 2.
She quarantined nine regions of the country, closed all schools and universities, and petitioned the president for $125 million in emergency funds to fight what seemed to be "the plague of the 21st-century plague," as one Ukrainian put it. Incidentally, she also banned all mass gatherings and political rallies - after she had already had hers.
There have been a great deal of disturbing reports emanating from Ukraine over its alleged "superflu" outbreak.
Although it is taken for granted that these are swine flu cases there is actually little evidence to support this. The WHO and the CDC's Swine Flu deception and disinformation campaign to fudge the numbers is particularly relevant to Ukraine. We are lead to believe that all fatal Ukraine cases at GISAID (Global Initiative on Sharing Avian Influenza Data) are a new strain of the H1N1 virus that have an RBD D225G mutation.
The virus is reportedly a mixture of H1N1 and parainfluenza, which causes cardiopulmonary failure and the total destruction of the lungs. The high numbers of reported deaths is put down to a poor health care system and antibiotics bought over the counter damage, which irreparably an already weakened immune system.
These reports have led to a slew of speculative theories trying to make sense of what at first glance seemed like a new strain that would quickly engulf the world and bring about the ridiculous predictions of fatalities the WHO has been propagating:
After Baxter shipped live avian flu viral material to a lab in Ukraine there is suspicion that Baxter is part of a carefully orchestrated planned outbreak that unleashed a bioweapon in Ukraine (below video) It is part of Big Phama's plan to create a new hyped-up threat to increase the sales of vaccines and anti-virals The interesting case of Joseph Moshe, the Mossad-linked microbiologist, whose dramatic arrest in Los Angeles prompted stories of the swine flu vaccine being a bioweapon Airplanes were seen spraying mysterious substances over Ukraine days before the outbreak began
After Baxter shipped live avian flu viral material to a lab in Ukraine there is suspicion that Baxter is part of a carefully orchestrated planned outbreak that unleashed a bioweapon in Ukraine (below video)
It is part of Big Phama's plan to create a new hyped-up threat to increase the sales of vaccines and anti-virals
The interesting case of Joseph Moshe, the Mossad-linked microbiologist, whose dramatic arrest in Los Angeles prompted stories of the swine flu vaccine being a bioweapon
Airplanes were seen spraying mysterious substances over Ukraine days before the outbreak began
There is however currently not enough credible evidence to accept these theories outright, even though they are plausible. As of December 1st, the Ukraine Health Ministry reports that 440 people have died of flu and respiratory diseases. The outbreak began on October 29th. Since then, nearly 1.9 million people have contracted flu and respiratory infections. A total of 114,503 people have been hospitalized since the start of the epidemic of which 90,284 people have been discharged. It is interesting to note that there is no mention of swine flu or H1N1 in that report and simple maths showing the fatality rate works out to be around 0.02%. Aggressive infection rate yes, but the actual risk of death has been blown out of all proportion by the way the media has reported it.
The World Health Organization agrees that,
"the numbers of severe cases do not appear to be excessive when compared to the experience of other countries."
The editors of the New York Times have been doing their job of increasing the fear factor: they reported on November 27th that the H1N1 influenza virus found in Ukraine has likely changed to the point where the swine flu vaccine will no longer prevent infection. A case tested in Ukraine was determined to be a "low reactor" to the swine flu vaccine.
This means that the current vaccine is ineffective against this mutated strain.
As one of our forum members pointed out, this last reference comes from one of the primary sources used by the mainstream media: Dr. Henry L. Niman's 'Recombinomics' website:
Further investigation reveals that Dr. Niman was a keynote speaker at a conference in Asia in 2006 along with a whole roster of representatives of some of the largest pharmaceutical corporations in the world, among them Scripps, Merck, Roche and others. [...] Global Research contributor F. William Engdahl also casts doubt upon Dr. Niman's credentials and motivations as a serious and credible source of information.
Further investigation reveals that Dr. Niman was a keynote speaker at a conference in Asia in 2006 along with a whole roster of representatives of some of the largest pharmaceutical corporations in the world, among them Scripps, Merck, Roche and others. [...]
Global Research contributor F. William Engdahl also casts doubt upon Dr. Niman's credentials and motivations as a serious and credible source of information.
Activists of Yulia Tymoshenko's Bloc
hand out protective masks during a pre-election campaign in Kiev.
Engdahl questions whether the current outbreak in the Ukraine is swine flu at all and has written two excellent editorials investigating the internal politics and wider geopolitical factors.
In his article Ukraine, WHO and the Geopolitics of Swine Flu Panic, Engdahl concludes that events,
"appear to be a political concoction by a threatened government to avoid election defeat and possibly declare martial law."
The Ukrainian Presidential candidate Sergiy Tigipko agrees stating that the Flu 'epidemic' is being used to distract public attention from real problems.
Engdahl takes account of current political upheaval and cites an interesting hypothesis from Dr Lawrence Broxmeyer:
Broxmeyer suggests that the WHO and CDC wish to divert attention from a worldwide epidemic of tuberculosis, while focusing attention on flu instead. Indeed recently the WHO changed its categories of causes of death to lump death from influenza in the same group as death from tuberculosis and other pulmonary disease. Given the present Swine Flu hysteria, any pulmonary death seems to be reported as "death from H1N1 influenza." In a passing note the report typically notes the patient also suffered from lung problems. [...]Since Washington financed and organized the 2004 Orange Revolution that brought a pro-NATO Victor Yushchenko in as President, Ukraine politics has been a geopolitical tug-of war between Moscow and Washington. How the current political games around allegations of H1N1 panic play into that tug of war is not yet clear.[...] Prime Minister Tymoshenko, whatever the real facts of the case, is using the WHO Swine Flu panic scenario to the hilt. In a recent statement, she stated, "We cannot relax even for a moment because the World Health Organization predicts two more waves of flu, including the bird flu, are expected in Ukraine. There is no alternative to vaccination. The entire world is going this way..." A day earlier she admitted she was not vaccinated and that she prefers "like all other people" to rely on garlic, onion and lemon as a way of preventing the flu.
Broxmeyer suggests that the WHO and CDC wish to divert attention from a worldwide epidemic of tuberculosis, while focusing attention on flu instead. Indeed recently the WHO changed its categories of causes of death to lump death from influenza in the same group as death from tuberculosis and other pulmonary disease.
Given the present Swine Flu hysteria, any pulmonary death seems to be reported as "death from H1N1 influenza." In a passing note the report typically notes the patient also suffered from lung problems. [...]Since Washington financed and organized the 2004 Orange Revolution that brought a pro-NATO Victor Yushchenko in as President, Ukraine politics has been a geopolitical tug-of war between Moscow and Washington. How the current political games around allegations of H1N1 panic play into that tug of war is not yet clear.[...] Prime Minister Tymoshenko, whatever the real facts of the case, is using the WHO Swine Flu panic scenario to the hilt. In a recent statement, she stated,
"We cannot relax even for a moment because the World Health Organization predicts two more waves of flu, including the bird flu, are expected in Ukraine. There is no alternative to vaccination. The entire world is going this way..."
A day earlier she admitted she was not vaccinated and that she prefers "like all other people" to rely on garlic, onion and lemon as a way of preventing the flu.
In his most recent piece, Are Ukraine's 'Black Death' cases the result of IMF Loans?, Engdahl cites a Cambridge University study that establishes a clear link between the socio-economic conditions that arise when a country is subject to the cruel shock therapy imposed by the IMF and sharp rises in the incidence of Tuberculosis - this disease being a far better match with the reported symptoms than "swine flu" has exhibited:
The Ukraine Government has declared a state of emergency and medical examiners describe results of autopsies on dead patients in chilling terms that recall the Black Death descriptions from the Fourteenth Century in Venice. While everyone is calling it "Swine Flu" and the WHO is using it to spread their panic and untested vaccines, there is strong evidence that the deaths - almost all from pulmonary conditions - are from a rising incidence of Tuberculosis (TB).
The Ukraine Government has declared a state of emergency and medical examiners describe results of autopsies on dead patients in chilling terms that recall the Black Death descriptions from the Fourteenth Century in Venice.
While everyone is calling it "Swine Flu" and the WHO is using it to spread their panic and untested vaccines, there is strong evidence that the deaths - almost all from pulmonary conditions - are from a rising incidence of Tuberculosis (TB).
What is clear is that the Western-aligned Tymoshenko government is using all the best shock doctrine tactics to capitalize on the panic generated in order to remain in power.
The following images portray the over-dramatization being played out on the Ukrainian stage:
Ukraines Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko does her bit at spreading hysteria in her country.
But not everyone is asleep:
Young Ukrainians in Kiev burn a replica of an anti-flu mask to protest
against government-inspired hysteria about swine flu that distracts the public from political issues.
And you all thought we were on our way out While the Obama and the G20 would have us believe that the economic recession was shooed away, the signs are not quite encouraging:
Red Alert - The Second Wave of The Financial Tsunami Société Générale Tells Clients How to Prepare for Potential "Global Collapse" Deepening economic crisis in Eastern Europe
Red Alert - The Second Wave of The Financial Tsunami
Société Générale Tells Clients How to Prepare for Potential "Global Collapse"
Deepening economic crisis in Eastern Europe
Analyst Max Keiser reckons the world is entering phase two of the manufactured global economic crisis.
The tremor towards the end of the month - measuring about a 6.0 on the financial shock scale, was that Dubai World, the largest conglomerate in that white elephant amidst a war-torn desert, has decided not to pay its sixty billion dollar debts until next May at the earliest. Meanwhile, gold has climbed higher than ever before (though it should be even higher) and the US continues to sink lower and lower:
Gold sets all time record US home foreclosures at record high as jobs crisis deepens Unemployment Rises in 29 US states US food charities overwhelmed by demand Around 50 million Americans go hungry Dollar slump persisting as analysts see no bottom
Gold sets all time record
US home foreclosures at record high as jobs crisis deepens
Unemployment Rises in 29 US states
US food charities overwhelmed by demand
Around 50 million Americans go hungry
Dollar slump persisting as analysts see no bottom
The IMF's Dominique Strauss-Kahn warned that the public will not bail out the financial services sector for a second time if another global crisis blows up in four or five years time, as this would not be tolerated by the people and this would put "some democracies at risk". Guess what, the current crisis might still be here in four or five years, and yes, our political leaders may bail out again.
Since when have they been concerned about the opinion of the masses?
Terrorama Brought to you by the War on Terror! Former Mossad chief Efraim Halevy warned the world this month of potential nuclear terror attacks. He should know, given his organisation's notorious involvement in creating terrorism; just recently an accidental discovery revealed that Mossad trains their recruits in the fine and noble art of planting "fake" bombs under cars.
The only real threat to the world from nuclear terror attacks is of course Israel, whose US-based envoys went to China two weeks ahead of Obama to warn the Chinese that if they failed to get behind their agenda to shut down Iran's legitimate quest for nuclear energy, the US would be powerless to stop Israel unilaterally bombing Iran. More on that below. We suspect however there is another angle on Halevy's warnings of 'dirty bombs' (indeed the whole issue of nuclear weapons): the PTB will surely be aware of the increasing frequency of fireballs exploding in the atmosphere and will thus have some idea that the planet is on course to encounter some rough cosmic weather in the coming years.
As you will see from the videos below, it's not inconceivable that the intense flash from an incoming meteor exploding in the atmosphere could be mistaken for, or deliberately spun as, a nuclear explosion.
Iran says labels reading 'Ministry of Sepah', a body that no longer exists,
are enough to prove that the photos released by Israel are forged.
The Mossad were involved in hijacking a ship allegedly smuggling weapons from Iran to Hizb'llah in Lebanon. The cargo was displayed amid Israel's screams of "war crimes!"
The stunt was transparent on many levels, not the least of which was the fact that Israel's actual war crimes were being discussed in the UN on the very same day! After Israel released photos of the various rockets and ammunition it had discovered aboard the Francop, Iranian news agencies published evidence showing that the photos were forged.
Indeed, one of the images shows a couple of boxes labeled 'Ministry of Sepah' - an Iranian government body that no longer exists. The bomb that derailed a train on the Moscow-St.Petersburg line and killed 26 people was interesting for a number of reasons: there was a bomb attack on that same line two years ago and another train was derailed on the same day in Dagestan.
It took five days for anyone to claim responsibility for the Moscow-St.Petersburg attack, but when they did, a familiar script reappeared: a group calling themselves the "Caucasian Mujahideen" posted a message on a website, the leader of which is apparently Doku Umarov, a wanted Chechen terrorist.
Perhaps even more intriguingly, the Kremlin's top banker, Boris Yevstratikov, was among the dead. Further suggesting this was a sophisticated operation, is the fact that a second bomb was detonated after the train derailed and is presumed that the targets were the investigators at the site. The US also witnessed the revival of a familiar script when a patsy was framed in a blatant Secret Team psy-op to reverse flagging public support for the Pentagon's imperial adventures. Perhaps it's mere coincidence, but Fort Hood happens to be an interesting place for many reasons.
Richard Dolan has this to say about the base in his latest book, UFOs & The National Security State: The Cover Up Exposed 1973-1991:
[In the mid 1980s] claims of secret underground bases were beginning to leak from the covert world. Several, replete with connections to UFOs and reverse engineering, pointed to Fort Hood in Texas. Researcher Richard Sauder communicated with a former member of the Army who claimed that to reach his work station beneath Fort Hood, he had to travel through two miles of tunnel. There was evidently much more beyond that. When Sauder asked him whether his work underground was UFO-related, the man remained sphinx-like, but intimated yes. Another military source told Sauder of an underground base at Fort Hood dating back to the 1950s, if not earlier. More recently, Sauder expressed his firm conviction that there are multiple, massive facilities beneath Fort Hood, perhaps even a labyrinth of tunnels and bases. Yet another person, writing anonymously to the UFO news repository, Filer's Files, claimed to have interviewed during the 1980s several individuals connected to with Fort Hood. He concluded there was a secret base below, containing either captured or man-made UFOs. Some of his sources claimed to have seen UFOs taking off or landing in a restricted part of Fort Hood.
[In the mid 1980s] claims of secret underground bases were beginning to leak from the covert world. Several, replete with connections to UFOs and reverse engineering, pointed to Fort Hood in Texas. Researcher Richard Sauder communicated with a former member of the Army who claimed that to reach his work station beneath Fort Hood, he had to travel through two miles of tunnel.
There was evidently much more beyond that.
When Sauder asked him whether his work underground was UFO-related, the man remained sphinx-like, but intimated yes. Another military source told Sauder of an underground base at Fort Hood dating back to the 1950s, if not earlier. More recently, Sauder expressed his firm conviction that there are multiple, massive facilities beneath Fort Hood, perhaps even a labyrinth of tunnels and bases.
Yet another person, writing anonymously to the UFO news repository, Filer's Files, claimed to have interviewed during the 1980s several individuals connected to with Fort Hood. He concluded there was a secret base below, containing either captured or man-made UFOs.
Some of his sources claimed to have seen UFOs taking off or landing in a restricted part of Fort Hood.
Setting the Middle East on Fire Conflict in the Saudi peninsula has been steadily rising in the past few months. Which isn't surprising given that the Saudis are far and away the biggest military spenders in the Middle East. (Yes, even more so than Israel.)
They've been busy trying out their American toys in the neighborhood. In August, Yemen launched Operation Scorched Earth in an attempt to crush Houthi resistance fighters, so named after their deceased leader Abdul Malik al-Houthi. Yemen is a former British colony and since its independence it has been little more than a client state of the British economic empire.
A third of its population are desperately poor, three million of those rely on UN food aid to survive and half of its children - that's around 7 million children - are stunted from persistent malnutrition. An estimated 175,000 people have been forced to leave their homes. The conflict is presented as one between Shia Muslim forces and the predominantly Sunni Muslim Yemeni government.
However the "Shia forces" see their struggle not as a religious one, but a regional one arising from systemic economic and political discrimination against them by the corrupt central government, which is unflinchingly supported by the British and American governments.
The perception managers are trying to convey what is more appropriately a class war as another front in the War on Terror by highlighting the Sunni-Shia religious divide, a previously non-existent cleavage we've seen ruthlessly exploited by Western intelligence and military operatives in neighboring Iraq to further the 'Clash of Civilizations' agenda. This month, the Saudi air-force was joined by Jordanian special forces attacking villages along the border with Yemen. Saudi jets bombed northern Yemeni villages based on the allegation that the Houthi fighters had killed two of its soldiers on the border. The Houthis said they were counteracting Saudi encroachment inside Yemeni territory, and that the Yemeni government had run to the Saudis for air and ground support because it fears losing control of the country.
A likely scenario right out of any counter-insurgency manual is that "agents unknown" disguised as Houthi fighters stirred the hornets' nest.
It makes no sense that a resistance movement of limited means would assault the forces of a powerful neighbor and draw its physical might down on its head. We caught a glimpse of counter-insurgency at play back in June when Houthi fighters were accused of kidnapping and murdering seven foreign aid workers.
Their response?
"It is a government conspiracy to tarnish the Houthis' reputation. It has never happened that a member of the Houthi followers committed such a shameful act."
Saudi Arabia's response has been massive, killing women and children with abandon as they pursue the "deviant" Houthis hiding amongst the local population.
The Yemeni government has historically been propped up by Saudi Arabia's Wahabbist regime and US "aid" by training the Yemeni military as part of its regional counter-insurgency program. That the Saudis justify their involvement in their neighbor's civil war as "fighting extremism" is laughable coming from arguably the most pathocratic government in the region.
The border incursion, combined with reports that the Saudis used phosphorous munitions against civilians, is reminiscent of the pathological behavior of a certain other Middle Eastern state towards its neighbors. In 2006 Israel justified its invasion of Lebanon based on reports, later shown to be false, that Israeli soldiers had been "kidnapped" by Hezbollah.
At the beginning of the year Israel topped its long list of war crimes with the heinous use of white phosphorous on defenseless Gazan civilians.
Without excusing Saudi behavior here, we nevertheless wonder if the Kingdom has been dragged into this conflict with its southern neighbor to divert its attention from Israel's brutal occupation of Palestine, of which Saudi Arabia has been a relatively vigilant opponent, if only in word and not in deed. Interestingly, CIA director Leon Panetta met Saudi officials mid-month, shortly after the US had arranged a military agreement with the Yemeni government in which it promised to help its armed offensive against the Houthi fighters "by providing intelligence and training to its forces." We suspect this deal is intended to retrospectively legitimize what the CIA has been covertly involved with all along.
"Operation Scorched Earth", launched in August, has a distinctly Western intelligence ring to it.
Going further back, remember that a CIA Predator drone unilaterally blasted "al-Qaeda suspects" in Yemen to martyrdom back in 2002. Last year the Yemeni government arrested "a group of alleged Islamist militants linked to Israeli intelligence" following the bombing of the US embassy in Sana'a in which 18 people were killed.
The Iranian government is able to see the hidden Israeli, British and American hand behind this conflict. The Iranians are well versed in objective history and have little doubt that these Western powers have manipulated and fuelled this conflict as a continuation of the British dirty war that cost 200,000 Yemeni civilian lives in the 1960s.
But Iranian pleas for all sides to take note of this have fallen on deaf ears.
Nuclear blackmail The war games with Iran have stepped up a gear this month with the news that Russia and China got behind the US, UK and France to support a new International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) resolution calling on Iran to unconditionally halt all its nuclear operations.
While British foreign secretary David Milliband was delivering Russian and Chinese support against Iran's right to develop nuclear energy, his brother Edward British secretary for Energy and Climate Change, announced Britain was to build ten new nuclear reactors! Negotiations to convince Iran to export its low-enriched uranium to the west for processing collapsed around the question of how much uranium should be sent initially. The draft deal brokered by IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei, involved shipping some 70 percent of Iran's low-level enriched uranium to Russia and France, where the low-enriched uranium would be processed into fuel rods with a purity of 20 percent to supply a research reactor in Tehran.
Iran actually agreed to this but the US, UK and France also wanted Iran to ship the bulk of its supply up front, whereas Iran was only willing to send it in installments.
It's little wonder the Iranians feel the need to build trust before cooperating with such a plan: the last time they agreed to do this, France reneged on the deal:
Tabled by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the proposal requires Iran to ship as much as 70 percent of its LEU out of the country for processing into fuel for the Tehran research reactor.Iranian officials have welcomed foreign cooperation on fuel supply, but have rejected the idea of sending out the bulk of its uranium stock in one batch, saying there are no guarantees that Western countries would keep their end of the bargain.In the early 1970s, Iran made a deal with France under which it was expected to receive around 50 tons of UF-6 gas, which can be turned into enriched uranium.France, however, later reneged on the deal and to this day has refused to deliver the uranium-hexafluoride to Iran.Moreover, Iran, has a 10-percent stake in France's Eurodif nuclear facility and is entitled to the plant's output, but has never received any nuclear material.
Israel's unique ability to bring huge international pressure to bear on its perceived enemies has once more worked wonders.
The IAEA resolution will likely be brought before the UN Security Council, from where the pressure on Iran can be ratcheted up some more through economic sanctions. Perhaps the Gaza model will be followed? And why not; starving the Palestinians has worked wonders for provoking the reaction Israel needs to launch its unilateral wars of aggression. The Washington Post gave us a glimpse into how Israel,
"brings huge international pressure to bear".
Dennis Ross, NeoCon signatory of PNAC and now one of Obama's Zionist advisors, was sent to China two weeks ahead of Obama's visit to deliver the message that,
if China would not support the US on the issue, Israel would be likely to bomb Iranian nuclear facilities. The paper quoted the officials as saying that Israel saw the issue as "an existential issue," and that "countries that have an existential issue don't listen to other countries."
What was implied to the Chinese was that due to Israel's unique existentialist crisis, the only way of protecting Iran from an Israeli attack is to get behind the sanctions agenda.
"Hey, Israel is baying for blood here... We have to stave off Armageddon by throwing it some scraps!"
Thanks to whatever hold it has on the 'big players', including the world's supposed superpower, the latter continue to dance to its dark tune.
Chavez this month said that Israel plans to exterminate the Palestinians, while Ahmadinejad said that Obama must choose between Israel or Iran
The Zionist-controlled media is working overtime to portray this "nuclear showdown" as The World vs Evil Iran, but Ahmadinejad was warmly welcomed throughout his tour of South America, in sharp contrast to the demonstrations that clung to Shimon Peres like a bad smell.
The media pounced on Iran's prosecution of its Nobel laureate and human rights lawyer Shirin Ebadi, who is charged with tax evasion, as if investigation of a Nobel winner was the most vile offence imaginable.
However, if we look at the track record of those awarded the Nobel prizes, it is clearly a political instrument used to reward pathological types:
Menachem Begin Shimon Peres Henry Kissinger Al Gore,
Menachem Begin
Shimon Peres
Henry Kissinger
Al Gore,
... say no more. Iran's response to all this? To hell with you lot: we're going to enrich uranium to 20 percent for the fuel we need!
Oh, and we're going to build ten more nuclear plants! We're also launching a campaign to highlight the real human rights abuses of the real Axis of Evil. Ahmadinejad put things simply to Obama: choose between Israel or Iran. Obama continues to do Israel's bidding on the international stage, but we noticed that he has quietly moved to curb the influence of lobbyists in Washington.
It's an encouraging development, if he's sincere about reining in The Lobby.
First they came for the Muslims The US government is going after "organizations affiliated with Iran" by seeking the closure of certain mosques.
No doubt the Secret Team's 5th of November gunpowder plot helped inject new energy into Islamophobia in the US, though we've yet to hear someone explain how a man who frequented lap-dancing clubs was simultaneously preparing jihad against the immoral infidels. It's right up there with the blonde-haired, Gucci-wearing "Deccan Mujahideen" who terrorized Mumbai last year high on drugs.
Does "mind control" sound too cliché?
Remember, remember what SOTT said last November:
It is important to understand that when we talk about mind control, we are not saying anything more extraordinary than what the mainstream media is already telling you. Even if you believe the official narrative, you would have to accept that anyone capable of randomly murdering as many people as possible in a suicidal mission has been brainwashed into doing something against reason, moral, nature and common sense. Whether mind control is performed by social indoctrination, Pavlovian conditioning or some technique of which the public is unaware, the fact is that people can be led to believe and do things against their natural inclination. So in reality, the how is not really the issue; what is important is the why. As always, in order to understand this, we need to ask: cui bono? (who benefits?).
It is important to understand that when we talk about mind control, we are not saying anything more extraordinary than what the mainstream media is already telling you. Even if you believe the official narrative, you would have to accept that anyone capable of randomly murdering as many people as possible in a suicidal mission has been brainwashed into doing something against reason, moral, nature and common sense.
Whether mind control is performed by social indoctrination, Pavlovian conditioning or some technique of which the public is unaware, the fact is that people can be led to believe and do things against their natural inclination. So in reality, the how is not really the issue; what is important is the why. As always, in order to understand this, we need to ask: cui bono? (who benefits?).
Encroaching fascism and no one seems to notice
Switzerland voted overwhelmingly to ban the building of minarets even though the country's four standing minarets do not broadcast the call to prayer outside their own buildings.
Yes there are only four minarets in the country, but like many Europeans, the Swiss have succumbed to the racist propaganda suggesting Muslims are on the brink of overrunning the country.
The law was sponsored by the largest political party, whose campaign emblazoned the country with posters depicting minarets as missiles rising from the Swiss flag next to a fully veiled woman.
American religious mafia makes a hit on the global neighborhood Do you remember 'The Family'?
A series of sex scandals involving family-values-preaching conservative Republican senators in the US during the summer lifted the curtain on a hitherto secretive organization calling itself 'The Family'. Its members are sworn to secrecy within this outwardly religious organization which connects powerful politicians with the limitless resources of the ambitious powerbrokers behind America's fundamentalist Christian movement.
Author Jeff Sharlet, who infiltrated one of The Family's 'prayer groups' and studied the organization for years has come to the conclusion that their goal is,
"an 'invisible' world organization led by Christ -- that's what they aspire to. They are very explicit about this if you look in their documents, and I spent a lot of time researching in their archives. Their goal is a worldwide invisible organization. That's their word, and that's important because it sounds so crazy.What they mean when they say 'a world organization led by Christ' is that literally you just sit there and let Christ tell you what to do. More often than not that leads them to a sort of paternalistic benign fascism. There are a lot of places that they've done good things, and that's important to acknowledge. But that also means they might be involved with General Suharto in Indonesia and if that means that God leads him to kill half a million of his own citizens then, well, it would prideful to question God leading them.
"an 'invisible' world organization led by Christ -- that's what they aspire to. They are very explicit about this if you look in their documents, and I spent a lot of time researching in their archives. Their goal is a worldwide invisible organization. That's their word, and that's important because it sounds so crazy.What they mean when they say 'a world organization led by Christ' is that literally you just sit there and let Christ tell you what to do. More often than not that leads them to a sort of paternalistic benign fascism. There are a lot of places that they've done good things, and that's important to acknowledge.
But that also means they might be involved with General Suharto in Indonesia and if that means that God leads him to kill half a million of his own citizens then, well, it would prideful to question God leading them.
Sharlet revealed this month that 'The Family' is behind a proposed Ugandan law that would execute HIV positive men who have committed "aggravated homosexuality."
Currently, homosexuality is a crime punishable with life imprisonment in Uganda.
As if that were not inhumane enough, the new proposal would condemn HIV positive gay men and "repeat offenders" to death, jail for three years anyone who knows a gay man but refuses to report them to authorities, and sentence to seven years prison term anyone who defends in public the rights of gays and lesbians.
In a recent interview with National Public Radio, Sharlet explained that,
"[The] legislator that introduced the bill, a guy named David Bahati, is a member of The Family, [...] a core member of The Family. He [...] organizes their Ugandan National Prayer Breakfast and oversees an African sort of student leadership program designed to create future leaders for Africa, into which The Family has poured millions of dollars working through a very convoluted chain of linkages passing the money over to Uganda." And how did Sharlet discover the connection? "You follow [the] money," he said. You look at their archives. You do interviews where you can. It's not so invisible anymore. So that's how working with some research colleagues we discovered that David Bahati, the man behind this legislation, is really deeply, deeply involved in The Family's work in Uganda, that the ethics minister of Uganda, Museveni's kind of right-hand man, a guy named Nsaba Buturo, is also helping to organize The Family's National Prayer Breakfast. And here's a guy who has been the main force for this Anti-Homosexuality Act in Uganda's executive office and has been very vocal about what he's doing, in a rather extreme and hateful way. But these guys are not so much under the influence of The Family. They are, in Uganda, The Family."
"[The] legislator that introduced the bill, a guy named David Bahati, is a member of The Family, [...] a core member of The Family. He [...] organizes their Ugandan National Prayer Breakfast and oversees an African sort of student leadership program designed to create future leaders for Africa, into which The Family has poured millions of dollars working through a very convoluted chain of linkages passing the money over to Uganda."
And how did Sharlet discover the connection? "You follow [the] money," he said. You look at their archives. You do interviews where you can. It's not so invisible anymore. So that's how working with some research colleagues we discovered that David Bahati, the man behind this legislation, is really deeply, deeply involved in The Family's work in Uganda, that the ethics minister of Uganda, Museveni's kind of right-hand man, a guy named Nsaba Buturo, is also helping to organize The Family's National Prayer Breakfast.
And here's a guy who has been the main force for this Anti-Homosexuality Act in Uganda's executive office and has been very vocal about what he's doing, in a rather extreme and hateful way. But these guys are not so much under the influence of The Family. They are, in Uganda, The Family."
This is a remarkable piece of information, not just for the unashamed pure evilness of the law, but because it shows how a fanatical religious group of American politicians is capable of extending its influence across the globe, directly into lawmaking and the selection of new leaders for a whole continent.
We know that The Family has "powerful friends in Nigeria", so we naturally wonder to what extent its pathological influence is responsible for the horrific abuse Nigerian children suffer. Over 15,000 of them have been persecuted for "witchcraft" and over 1,000 have been murdered in the last decade in that country's craze to embrace the most extreme forms of firebrand evangelical "Christianity".
All "in Jesus name", of course.
Direland In our March installment of Connecting The Dots we noticed that British counter-insurgency was active in Ireland again (if indeed it had ever left).
The Special Reconnaissance Regiment (SRR) is a British military-intelligence counter-insurgency unit caught red-handed attacking police units in Iraq and reintroduced to the north of Ireland (where they originally cut their teeth) the day before two British Army soldiers were gunned down at the Massareene Barracks in County Antrim in March.
We noted at the time that this incident, followed a day later by the murder of a policeman, had the paw prints of counter-insurgency such as only Her Majesty's Finest can deliver. Tension built up over the summer with arrests and the usual 'low-level' sectarian violence occasionally punctured by bomb scares - both hoaxes and near misses. November, however, witnessed a spike of incidents coincide with more widespread arrests and detention of political "insurgents." Complaints about low-flying airplanes circling over border areas by night were denied until a plane apparently crashed in County Fermanagh.
A British Army spokesman initially said,
"It's not something we talk about," but when pressed said the drones were training for missions in Afghanistan, which suggests that the CIA is not the sole operator policing Afghan skies, or that drones are being introduced for crowd control "closer to home".
Special Reconnaissance Regiment aka British military counter-insurgency unit
Since its arrival in March, the SRR has embedded itself within the security apparatus, notably the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), the revamped police organization of Northern Ireland and key plank of the "peace process".
The 'cleansing' of the old Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) of undercover military-intelligence agents was pivotal in delivering Irish republicans' acceptance of British dominion of the gerrymandered police statelet and co-governance with British unionists. Recent US Senate hearings have confirmed British government collusion in the murders of Catholics.
Events this year have justified the dissidents' suspicions that nothing has changed: it emerged this month that the SRR have "been active at PSNI checkpoints and in raids" in the border counties. One such raid was initially presented as a successful operation that foiled an attack on policemen by armed dissidents. In fact the only weapons at the scene were those of the PSNI who, along with operatives from MI5 and the SRR, had gone in with guns blazing, then claimed they were fired upon first. They detained five men, one of whom had actually been en route to warn a police officer that he was being targeted by "dissidents".
The SRR's "carefully planned military operation" looks suspiciously like a mad dash to prevent someone from alerting the policeman and thus blowing the cover on their black-op plan to murder him and blame it on "dissidents." Locals suspect it was an attempted shoot-to-kill, a targeted assassination, for which the SRR is infamous.
For whatever reason, the whistleblower wasn't killed.
Despite being unarmed he stands accused of opening fire on his would-be-assassins and is being detained without bail, joining the hundreds of people under surveillance in the British government's war against the people. Following the theme of hitting police targets then pinning the blame on political enemies of the state, on the same night the above raid took place, the Belfast headquarters of the Policing Board was rammed with a car full of explosives that failed to fully detonate. Last month, a car bomb nearly killed another senior policeman.
Given the high-tech surveillance state that blankets most of the planet - especially the UK - it simply doesn't stand to reason that armed groups can successfully target a technologically superior opponent without it seeing your operation develop before it happens. In this light, it's interesting that it was publicly acknowledged this month that one of the worst atrocities in the "Troubles", the Omagh bombing which killed 29 civilians in 1998, was allowed to happen; an event some 9/11 Truthers might term "LIHOP" (let it happen on purpose).
This heinous false-flag terror attack resulted in the the "Good Friday Agreement" and a cessation of armed conflict. It was a false dawn that ushered in the current phase of British rule-by-deception in Ireland.
Those that point out that nothing has changed are instead persecuted for highlighting the obvious and framed for acts of terrorism perpetrated by the Secret Team's people within the British police state.
Serious and sheepish sectarian attack.
Obviously the work of dyed in the wool republicans.
Allaying the heightened sense of anxiety, a cheeky prank brought some much-needed comic relief when a farmer, whose sympathies lie squarely with the British government, awoke one day to find his sheep daubed in the colors of the Irish flag!
Not everyone saw the funny side though:
"the local Ulster Unionist Party politician Billy Armstrong, who knows the farmer, described the incident as sectarian and intended to intimidate people."
If natural disasters reflect the disaster of human society, then perhaps the deluge of rain that hit Ireland and the UK this month is a cosmic reflection of the perilous state of both countries' economies.
In a similar vein, we noticed that Saudi Arabia experienced a Bible-sized flood that drowned over a hundred people just as its pathocratic government intensified its bombardment of the Zaidi people of northern Yemen. We're not suggesting this is heavenly revenge, as Yahweh would have you believe, but rather that natural disasters reflect the disaster of human society.
If social issues were ameliorated and freedom restored, would the mass consciousness reflect that as well?
Clonfert, Co Galway. The flood levels have not abated in many parts
of the country and the damage is expected to cost billions
No sign of that yet in Ireland where the over-hyped and over-reached Celtic Tiger is devouring its own tail, leaving tens of thousands of households on the verge of defaulting on mortgage payments.
Having dutifully bailed out the bankers that exposed the economy to the financial tsunami in the first place, the Irish government announced that if people don't accept a 4 billion hatchet-job of wages and public programs in December's budget, the IMF are poised to step in and dictate even harsher shock therapy. When a quarter of a million people took to the streets in the country's largest ever strike action, the government's response was to announce the army is being prepared to deal with "public disorder on the streets."
More strikes are planned next month. Meanwhile generations of systemic sexual abuse of the country's children has officially been acknowledged, despite the Catholic Church's best efforts to hide its central role in the trauma through buying its victims' silence.
The sheer scale of the crimes detailed in a series of reports led the government's Minister for Justice to comment:
"I read the report as justice minister. But on a human level - as a father and as a member of this community - I felt a growing sense of revulsion and anger," Ahern said."Revulsion at the horrible evil acts committed against children. Anger at how those children were then dealt with and how often abusers were left free to abuse."
Delirium:
"Im a channel for Gods love and I always have been a channel for Gods love," says Joe Coleman
Revulsion and anger with the Catholic Church compounded by the natural and socio-economic turmoil is leading some to seek divine solace elsewhere.
In America some are finding the image of Jesus on truck windows and irons, but in Ireland rumors of visions of Jesus' mother prompted around 10,000 people to heed the call of two "visionaries" who claim to channel messages from The Mother of Christ.
They flocked to witness an apparition of The Virgin Mary who personally told the two faith healers that she would appear at 3pm on October 31st at Knock shrine, County Mayo, location of a famed 19th century sighting of The Mother of Jesus.
She didn't materialize on this occasion, but she did leave a message with her channellers asking for "all my children to pray for my priests", then booked another appointment for December 5th.
November Rain No, not of the terran variety... cosmic rain.
It was difficult not to notice that reports of fireballs searing across our skies are increasing in frequency, especially with many 'night-cams' providing spectacular evidence to support people's excited testimonies. (An unforeseen benefit of the post 9/11 security complex perhaps?)
California - Meteorite Sighting Startles Yolo County Residents An emergency dispatcher with the Federal Aviation Administration confirmed that the event is part of the annual Leonid Meteor Shower. The FAA may be considered the civilian authority of high strangeness in US skies, but the annual November Leonid sprinkle was ruled out as the source for the following behemoth seen from California to Wyoming mid-month: US - Meteor the size of oven lights up the night sky, alarms Utahns At exactly 12:07, people from all over the western United States watched as the bolide meteor crashed into Earth's atmosphere. In some areas, the flash of light was so bright it caused light sensor street lamps to shut off.Don White was in Wyoming and told KSL News-radio for a moment he suspected a nuclear strike.Everyone who saw it has a once-in-a-lifetime story. Scientists believe it was not part of the famous Leonid debris stream, instead a sporadic asteroid, a midnight fireball, which exploded in the atmosphere with an energy equivalent of up to one kiloton of TNT. One kiloton of TNT? This was a pebble then, compared with the tremendous overhead explosion in broad daylight that terrified Indonesians at the beginning of the month: When analyzed, the amount and intensity of low frequency sound waves created by the explosion allowed researchers Elizabeth Silber and Peter Brown of the Meteor Infrasound Group at the Univ. of Western Ontario to determine that the explosion caused by the asteroid was on the scale of 30 - 50 kilotons of TNT. A couple in Massachusetts had their "once-in-a-lifetime sighting" on the 27th of the month: "This thing was big. If I took a ruler and put it up to the sky, this thing would be 6 inches wide in the sky." When we consider the frequency of reported sightings over population centers, it's natural to wonder how many sightings go unreported because, well, there's nobody around to 'sight' them! Only a fraction of the planet's surface area is inhabited (one estimate as low as 2%). Can we extrapolate from this that it's starting to pour? It would help if we weren't blindsided by the refusal of those with the means to survey the number of meteor and comet debris entering our atmosphere to publish their data. It's left to the media to render these spectacular events 'harmless' by assuring us how unique each one is: Massive Fireball Over Tokyo According to a statement from the Toyama Observatory, it was a "massive fireball", "a rare phenomenon caused by a large mass of meteorite".As we said, completely unique, just like all the other ones! California Fireball Witnesses say it was "slow-moving," "white and green," and that it left behind "a trail of smoke and sparkles of debris." "This was a rare event," says Baldridge. "I have not seen a high altitude 'smoke' stream like this for more than 20 years." Thankfully some are paying attention and see that this is happening the world over on a daily basis: Possible Meteor Spotted in British Columbia Sky "These are happening all the time. We've had some very spectacular fireballs in the Malayasia area just a few weeks ago," said [David Dodge, a retired astronomer]."Earlier this year, there was a spectacular fireball that actually ended up in meteorites over Sudan, and a few weeks ago we had one over Vancouver, so these sorts of things are happening all the time." Pennsylvania - Another Fireball My 3 year old daughter started shouting "Look Mama, a comet!!" I looked out the window and to my amazement I saw I HUGE yellow and white ball of fire. Out of the mouths of babes (oft times come gems). The fireball had broken into pieces by the time this photo was taken. Kansas, US - Biophysicist confirms Liberal boy's meteorite discovery It's been a good year for meteorites in Kansas. Three new meteorites have been confirmed [...] That makes four meteorites reported in Kansas this year alone. When does "extremely rare" become "common occurrence"? Those of you wondering what caused that sonic boom you heard should turn off your television sets and take note of this description of a sound that often accompanies a fireball: US - Fireball Lights Up Night Sky A photo believed to be depicting the meteor's aftermath, taken at 7 a.m. Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009, from Clive, in western Tooele County, looking east toward Salt Lake City. } Some have reported it as a "ball of light" and others called to say it looked more like a "green streak."Media outlets in Salt Lake City report that some even felt a "slight rumble" or "sonic boom." Queensland, Australia - Green object that lit up sky a chip off an old meteor Witnesses said the meteor was a green glow traveling from south-east to north-west, leaving a visible trail for 10 to 15 minutes.While the Leonid meteor shower has created spectacular night shows some years, the meteor seen over Brisbane last night was at the wrong time and heading the in the wrong place. Meteor turns night into day with bright explosion over South Africa People saw a bright "greenish, bluish" light heading towards Pretoria at about 11pm on Saturday night. "Almost looked like daylight for a few seconds" "We looked up and that's when the sky lit up like day for a second or two. The sky actually went blue." It was unexpected, and not connected with any kind of shower. There was also one of those close calls which have become a bit too common for comfort in the last few years: Asteroid passes just 8,700 miles from Earth - with only 15 hours warning Unknown Asteroid Buzzed Earth
California - Meteorite Sighting Startles Yolo County Residents
An emergency dispatcher with the Federal Aviation Administration confirmed that the event is part of the annual Leonid Meteor Shower. The FAA may be considered the civilian authority of high strangeness in US skies, but the annual November Leonid sprinkle was ruled out as the source for the following behemoth seen from California to Wyoming mid-month:
US - Meteor the size of oven lights up the night sky, alarms Utahns
At exactly 12:07, people from all over the western United States watched as the bolide meteor crashed into Earth's atmosphere. In some areas, the flash of light was so bright it caused light sensor street lamps to shut off.Don White was in Wyoming and told KSL News-radio for a moment he suspected a nuclear strike.Everyone who saw it has a once-in-a-lifetime story. Scientists believe it was not part of the famous Leonid debris stream, instead a sporadic asteroid, a midnight fireball, which exploded in the atmosphere with an energy equivalent of up to one kiloton of TNT.
One kiloton of TNT?
This was a pebble then, compared with the tremendous overhead explosion in broad daylight that terrified Indonesians at the beginning of the month:
When analyzed, the amount and intensity of low frequency sound waves created by the explosion allowed researchers Elizabeth Silber and Peter Brown of the Meteor Infrasound Group at the Univ. of Western Ontario to determine that the explosion caused by the asteroid was on the scale of 30 - 50 kilotons of TNT.
A couple in Massachusetts had their "once-in-a-lifetime sighting" on the 27th of the month:
"This thing was big. If I took a ruler and put it up to the sky, this thing would be 6 inches wide in the sky."
When we consider the frequency of reported sightings over population centers, it's natural to wonder how many sightings go unreported because, well, there's nobody around to 'sight' them!
Only a fraction of the planet's surface area is inhabited (one estimate as low as 2%). Can we extrapolate from this that it's starting to pour? It would help if we weren't blindsided by the refusal of those with the means to survey the number of meteor and comet debris entering our atmosphere to publish their data.
It's left to the media to render these spectacular events 'harmless' by assuring us how unique each one is:
Massive Fireball Over Tokyo
According to a statement from the Toyama Observatory, it was a "massive fireball", "a rare phenomenon caused by a large mass of meteorite".As we said, completely unique, just like all the other ones!
California Fireball
Witnesses say it was "slow-moving," "white and green," and that it left behind "a trail of smoke and sparkles of debris." "This was a rare event," says Baldridge. "I have not seen a high altitude 'smoke' stream like this for more than 20 years."
Witnesses say it was "slow-moving," "white and green,"
and that it left behind "a trail of smoke and sparkles of debris."
"This was a rare event," says Baldridge. "I have not seen a high altitude 'smoke' stream like this for more than 20 years."
Thankfully some are paying attention and see that this is happening the world over on a daily basis:
Possible Meteor Spotted in British Columbia Sky
"These are happening all the time. We've had some very spectacular fireballs in the Malayasia area just a few weeks ago," said [David Dodge, a retired astronomer]."Earlier this year, there was a spectacular fireball that actually ended up in meteorites over Sudan, and a few weeks ago we had one over Vancouver, so these sorts of things are happening all the time."
Pennsylvania - Another Fireball
My 3 year old daughter started shouting "Look Mama, a comet!!" I looked out the window and to my amazement I saw I HUGE yellow and white ball of fire.
Out of the mouths of babes (oft times come gems). The fireball had broken into pieces by the time this photo was taken.
Kansas, US - Biophysicist confirms Liberal boy's meteorite discovery
It's been a good year for meteorites in Kansas. Three new meteorites have been confirmed [...]
That makes four meteorites reported in Kansas this year alone. When does "extremely rare" become "common occurrence"? Those of you wondering what caused that sonic boom you heard should turn off your television sets and take note of this description of a sound that often accompanies a fireball:
US - Fireball Lights Up Night Sky
A photo believed to be depicting the meteor's aftermath, taken at 7 a.m. Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009, from Clive, in western Tooele County, looking east toward Salt Lake City. } Some have reported it as a "ball of light" and others called to say it looked more like a "green streak."Media outlets in Salt Lake City report that some even felt a "slight rumble" or "sonic boom."
A photo believed to be depicting the meteor's aftermath,
taken at 7 a.m. Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009, from Clive,
in western Tooele County, looking east toward Salt Lake City.
}
Some have reported it as a "ball of light" and others called to say it looked more like a "green streak."Media outlets in Salt Lake City report that some even felt a "slight rumble" or "sonic boom."
Queensland, Australia - Green object that lit up sky a chip off an old meteor
Witnesses said the meteor was a green glow traveling from south-east to north-west, leaving a visible trail for 10 to 15 minutes.While the Leonid meteor shower has created spectacular night shows some years, the meteor seen over Brisbane last night was at the wrong time and heading the in the wrong place.
Meteor turns night into day with bright explosion over South Africa
People saw a bright "greenish, bluish" light heading towards Pretoria at about 11pm on Saturday night. "Almost looked like daylight for a few seconds" "We looked up and that's when the sky lit up like day for a second or two. The sky actually went blue." It was unexpected, and not connected with any kind of shower.
People saw a bright "greenish, bluish" light heading towards Pretoria at about 11pm on Saturday night.
"Almost looked like daylight for a few seconds" "We looked up and that's when the sky lit up like day for a second or two. The sky actually went blue."
It was unexpected, and not connected with any kind of shower.
There was also one of those close calls which have become a bit too common for comfort in the last few years:
Asteroid passes just 8,700 miles from Earth - with only 15 hours warning
Unknown Asteroid Buzzed Earth
Enter Hope... This installment opened with a quote concluding that,
"[a]ll these dangers are caused by human intervention in natural processes, and it's only through changed attitudes and behavior that they can be overcome. The real enemy then is humanity itself".
Mahatma Gandhi reminded us that,
"You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty."
The few psychopaths that fell into the ocean of humanity infested large parts of the waters.
You might say that one of the reasons SOTT exists is to bring this pollution and its causes to our readers' awareness. By connecting the dots, we see that ugly truths paint a very dark picture of our reality. It's cruel, it's painful, but it's the Truth and it calls to be known.
Truth is beautiful because it offers humanity freedom from the illusions that keep it in slavery, gifts humanity the vision to see reality as it is and illuminates a course towards an ideal of what reality can be. So, as long as we are alive and breathing (properly), we have the right to Hope!
"If you lose hope, somehow you lose the vitality that keeps life moving, you lose that courage to be, that quality that helps you go on in spite of it all. And so today I still have a dream." Martin Luther King Jr. The Trumpet of Conscience (1967)
"If you lose hope, somehow you lose the vitality that keeps life moving, you lose that courage to be, that quality that helps you go on in spite of it all. And so today I still have a dream." Martin Luther King Jr.
The Trumpet of Conscience (1967)
Giovanni Battista Tiepolo Time Unveiling Truth
Return to EndGame - JuegoFinal
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to Laura Knight-Jadczyk
