# Hillary and Bill... Gates

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_clinton22.htm

by Brandon Turbeville January 29, 2016 from BrandonTurbeville Website
If close association with one seedy Bill were not enough, Hillary has locked arms with another.
This time, Bill's last name is Gates and his Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation comes with him.
While most uninformed Americans see Gates as a technology genius and successful entrepreneur, Gates' Foundation has been hard at work all across the world promoting,
dumbed-down education policies coercive vaccination GM food abortion sterilization [1] [2] [3]
dumbed-down education policies
coercive vaccination
GM food
abortion
sterilization [1] [2] [3]
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is also one of the seven largest donors to the Bill, Hillary, and Chelsea Clinton Foundation. [4]
The two foundations have also partnered together on a number of initiatives such as the No Ceilings Full Participation Report. [5] Bill Gates pretends to care immensely for the poor, particularly in Third World countries, but the truth is that his Foundation's vaccination and "family planning" (read abortion and sterilization) efforts are not centered around public health, they are based in eugenics and population reduction. After all, it was Bill Gates himself who stated as much publicly when he said,
"The world today has 6.8 billion people... that's headed up to about 9 billion. Now if we do a really great job on new vaccines, health care, reproductive health services, we could lower that by perhaps 10 or 15 percent." [6]
Added to Gates' statement is the fact that, time and again, international vaccination programs have ended disastrously for third world nations.
Case in point:
The recent Meningitis vaccine program that resulted in the paralysis of at least 50 African children and a subsequent cover-up operation by the government of Chad. [7] This large number of adverse events occurred in one small village alone, leaving many to wonder what the rates of side effects might be on an international scale.
The recent Meningitis vaccine program that resulted in the paralysis of at least 50 African children and a subsequent cover-up operation by the government of Chad. [7]
This large number of adverse events occurred in one small village alone, leaving many to wonder what the rates of side effects might be on an international scale.
Even more concerning is the fact that paralysis rates have flourished in countries where Gates' polio vaccine, the one he is dedicating his life to, have been administered the most. Indeed, nowhere is this any more apparent than in India.
As Aaron Dykes writes,
But the real story is that while polio has statistically disappeared from India, there has been a huge spike in cases of non-polio acute flaccid paralysis (NPAFP) - the very types of crippling problems it was hoped would disappear with polio but which have instead flourished from a new cause. There were 47,500 cases of non-polio paralysis reported in 2011, the same year India was declared "polio-free," according to Dr. Vashisht and Dr. Puliyel. Further, the available data shows that the incidents tracked back to areas were doses of the polio vaccine were frequently administered. The national rate of NPAFP in India is 25-35 times the international average. [8]
But the real story is that while polio has statistically disappeared from India, there has been a huge spike in cases of non-polio acute flaccid paralysis (NPAFP) - the very types of crippling problems it was hoped would disappear with polio but which have instead flourished from a new cause. There were 47,500 cases of non-polio paralysis reported in 2011, the same year India was declared "polio-free," according to Dr. Vashisht and Dr. Puliyel.
Further, the available data shows that the incidents tracked back to areas were doses of the polio vaccine were frequently administered. The national rate of NPAFP in India is 25-35 times the international average. [8]
In addition to this data, it appears that the polio vaccines are themselves the leading cause of polio paralysis in India. [9]
In relation to the flawed data reported by the Polio Global Eradication Initiative which attempts to minimize the numbers of both vaccine-induced cases of polio paralysis and polio in general, Sayer Ji remarks,
According to the Polio Global Eradication Initiative's own statistics there were 42 cases of wild-type polio (WPV) reported in India in 2010, indicating that vaccine-induced cases of polio paralysis (100-180 annually) outnumber wild-type cases by a factor of 3-4. Even if we put aside the important question of whether or not the PGEI is accurately differentiating between wild and vaccine-associated polio cases in their statistics, we still must ask ourselves: should not the real-world effects of immunization, both good and bad, be included in PGEI's measurement of success? For the dozens of Indian children who develop vaccine-induced paralysis every year, the PGEI's recent declaration of India as nearing "polio free" status, is not only disingenuous, but could be considered an attempt to minimize their obvious liability in having transformed polio from a natural disease vector into a man-made (iatrogenic) one. [10]
According to the Polio Global Eradication Initiative's own statistics there were 42 cases of wild-type polio (WPV) reported in India in 2010, indicating that vaccine-induced cases of polio paralysis (100-180 annually) outnumber wild-type cases by a factor of 3-4.
Even if we put aside the important question of whether or not the PGEI is accurately differentiating between wild and vaccine-associated polio cases in their statistics, we still must ask ourselves: should not the real-world effects of immunization, both good and bad, be included in PGEI's measurement of success?
For the dozens of Indian children who develop vaccine-induced paralysis every year, the PGEI's recent declaration of India as nearing "polio free" status, is not only disingenuous, but could be considered an attempt to minimize their obvious liability in having transformed polio from a natural disease vector into a man-made (iatrogenic) one. [10]
Gates' polio vaccines have likewise been blamed for deaths and disabilities in neighboring Pakistan, with government offices in that country even recommending that the vaccines be suspended. In India, doctors heavily criticized the program not only for the heavy cost to human health and quality of life but also the massive financial burden hoisted upon the state.
This is because the program was only partially funded by the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations (GAVI-Alliance), which is itself partnered with,
The World Health Organization Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation The Rockefeller Foundation World Bank The United Nations [11]
The World Health Organization
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
The Rockefeller Foundation
World Bank
The United Nations [11]
The doctors criticized the GAVI-Alliance by stating,
The Indian government finally had to fund this hugely expensive program, which cost the country 100 times more than the value of the initial grant," their report stated.
From India's perspective the exercise has been an extremely costly both in terms of human suffering and in monetary terms. It is tempting to speculate what could have been achieved if the $2.5 billion spent on attempting to eradicate polio, were spent on water and sanitation and routine immunization. ...the polio eradication program epitomizes nearly everything that is wrong with donor funded disease specific' vertical projects at the cost of investments in community-oriented primary health care (horizontal programs)... ...this is a startling reminder of how initial funding and grants from abroad distort local priorities. [12]
From India's perspective the exercise has been an extremely costly both in terms of human suffering and in monetary terms.
It is tempting to speculate what could have been achieved if the $2.5 billion spent on attempting to eradicate polio, were spent on water and sanitation and routine immunization.
...the polio eradication program epitomizes nearly everything that is wrong with donor funded disease specific' vertical projects at the cost of investments in community-oriented primary health care (horizontal programs)...
...this is a startling reminder of how initial funding and grants from abroad distort local priorities. [12]
Indeed, as the doctors assert, one cannot vaccinate away a disease like polio.
Apart from the fact that there has never been a study conducted which proves a vaccine either safe or effective that was not connected to a drug company or a vaccine maker, [13] the so-called cure, if it comes under the guise of a vaccine, may well be as bad if not worse than the disease itself. Again, Sayer Ji writes,
Polio underscores the need for a change in the way we look at so-called "vaccine preventable" diseases as a whole. In most people with a healthy immune system, a poliovirus infection does not even generate symptoms. Only rarely does the infection produce minor symptoms, e.g. sore throat, fever, gastrointestinal disturbances, and influenza-like illness. In only 3% of infections does virus gain entry to the central nervous system, and then, in only 1-5 in 1000 cases does the infection progress to paralytic disease. Due to the fact that polio spreads through the fecal-oral route (i.e. the virus is transmitted from the stool of an infected person to the mouth of another person through a contaminated object, e.g. utensil) focusing on hygiene, sanitation and proper nutrition (to support innate immunity) is a logical way to prevent transmission in the first place, as well as reducing morbidity associated with an infection when it does occur. Instead, a large portion of the world's vaccines are given to the Third World as "charity," when the underlying conditions of economic impoverishment, poor nutrition, chemical exposures, and socio-political unrest are never addressed. [14]
Polio underscores the need for a change in the way we look at so-called "vaccine preventable" diseases as a whole. In most people with a healthy immune system, a poliovirus infection does not even generate symptoms.
Only rarely does the infection produce minor symptoms, e.g. sore throat, fever, gastrointestinal disturbances, and influenza-like illness. In only 3% of infections does virus gain entry to the central nervous system, and then, in only 1-5 in 1000 cases does the infection progress to paralytic disease. Due to the fact that polio spreads through the fecal-oral route (i.e. the virus is transmitted from the stool of an infected person to the mouth of another person through a contaminated object, e.g. utensil) focusing on hygiene, sanitation and proper nutrition (to support innate immunity) is a logical way to prevent transmission in the first place, as well as reducing morbidity associated with an infection when it does occur. Instead, a large portion of the world's vaccines are given to the Third World as "charity," when the underlying conditions of economic impoverishment, poor nutrition, chemical exposures, and socio-political unrest are never addressed. [14]
The fact is that the root cause of diseases like polio are not a lack of vaccination but,
poor sanitation standards poverty lower living standards chemical pollution lack of proper nutrition
poor sanitation standards
poverty
lower living standards
chemical pollution
lack of proper nutrition
If money were spent correcting these ills, as opposed to providing ineffective (in their stated purposes) and dangerous vaccinations, then polio and many other such diseases could indeed be eradicated. In the end, the answer is about raising living standards, reducing pollution, increasing knowledge and access to proper nutrition and clean drinking water not chemical and virus-laden needles.
Perhaps this method could be more accurately described as "God's work" instead of the vaccine obsessed Foundations and easily convinced trendy followers of those organizations. The connection between Gates and Clinton in regards to population reduction initiatives is no surprise, however, since it was Secretary of State Clinton who proudly announced that population control policies would become the "centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy" when she stated the following at the 15th Anniversary of the International Conference on Population and Development: [15]
This year, the United States renewed funding of reproductive healthcare through the United Nations Population Fund, and more funding is on the way. (Applause.) The U.S. Congress recently appropriated more than $648 million in foreign assistance to family planning and reproductive health programs worldwide. That's the largest allocation in more than a decade - since we last had a Democratic president, I might add. [16]
This year, the United States renewed funding of reproductive healthcare through the United Nations Population Fund, and more funding is on the way. (Applause.)
The U.S. Congress recently appropriated more than $648 million in foreign assistance to family planning and reproductive health programs worldwide. That's the largest allocation in more than a decade - since we last had a Democratic president, I might add. [16]
Gates' insane Common Core program - a monstrous wealth of stupidity and confounding nonsense - is also a unifying connection between Clinton and Gates. [17]
For instance, Clinton, while attempting to dodge some of the criticism and fire surrounding Common Core from parents and teachers who see the program for what it is, has openly stated that she supports the program. [18] [19] Thus, an informed observer would be lead to question whether or not Hillary is as committed to seeing American children fall even further behind in terms of general intelligence, ability, and overall achievement or if she is merely shilling for the Gates Foundation that has provided her and her family's own foundation with so much money.
It could be a combination of the two. It also could be that Hillary is just as devoted to the destruction of the family, the "lower" classes, and functional society as a whole as Bill Gates.
Considering her history, I would put my money on the latter...
References
Turbeville, Brandon. "Bill Gates Says Global Vaccination Is God's Work.'" Activist Post. January 26, 2013. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/01/bill-gates-says-global-vaccination.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. Hatamoto, Michael. "Bill Gates Plugs GMOs To Reduce Starvation In Africa." Daily Tech. February 24, 2015. http://www.dailytech.com/Bill+Gates+Plugs+GMOs+to+Reduce+Starvation+in+Africa/article37190.htm Accessed on September 2, 2015. Callaghan, Heather. "Bill Gates' Temporary Sterilization Microchip In Beta Female Testing By End Of The Year." Activist Post. July 2, 2015. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/07/bill-gates-temporary-sterilization.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. Helderman, Rosalind S. "Here Are The Seven Biggest Donors To The Bill, Hillary And Chelsea Clinton Foundation." Washington Post. February 19, 2015. http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/02/19/here-are-the-7-biggest-donors-to-the-bill-hillary-and-chelsea-clinton-foundation/ Accessed on September 2, 2015. "UPDATED: Hillary Rodham Clinton, Melinda Gates, And Chelsea Clinton Join International And Community Leaders For Official Release Of The No Ceilings Full Participation Report On Status Of Women And Girls." Clinton Foundation. March 5, 2015. https://www.clintonfoundation.org/press-releases/updated-hillary-rodham-clinton-melinda-gates-and-chelsea-clinton-join-international Accessed on September 2, 2015. Turbeville, Brandon. "Bill Gates Says Global Vaccination Is God's Work.'" Activist Post. January 26, 2013. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/01/bill-gates-says-global-vaccination.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. England, Christina. "Minimum Of 40 Children Paralyzed After New Meningitis Vaccine." VacTruth. January 6, 2013. http://vactruth.com/2013/01/06/paralyzed-after-meningitis-vaccine/ Accessed on September 2, 2015. Dykes, Aaron. "Paralysis Cases Spike In Wake Of Bill Gates' Polio Vaccination Effort In India." Infowars.com. April 6, 2012. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/09/lebanon-protest-leaders-reveal-connections-to-western-color-revolution-apparatus.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. Mudur, G.S. "Flip Side Of India's Polio Success Story Country Needs To Pencil Strategy To Fight Infection Triggered By Vaccine Itself, Say Experts." The Telegraph (India). January 16, 2012. http://www.telegraphindia.com/1120116/jsp/frontpage/story_15011108.jsp#.UQGYn_I5iE9 Accessed on September 3, 2015. Ji, Sayer. "Polio Vaccines Now The #1 Cause Of Polio Paralysis." Activist Post. January 18, 2012. http://www.activistpost.com/2012/01/polio-vaccines-now-1-cause-of-polio.html Accessed on September 3, 2015. Turbeville, Brandon. "Bill Gates Says Global Vaccination Is God's Work.'" Activist Post. January 26, 2013. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/01/bill-gates-says-global-vaccination.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. Turbeville, Brandon. "Bill Gates Says Global Vaccination Is God's Work.'" Activist Post. January 26, 2013. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/01/bill-gates-says-global-vaccination.html Accessed on September 2, 2015. Flu and Flu Vaccines: What's Coming Through That Needle. Dr. Sherri Tenpenny. Ji, Sayer. "Polio Vaccines Now The #1 Cause Of Polio Paralysis." Activist Post. January 18, 2012. http://www.activistpost.com/2012/01/polio-vaccines-now-1-cause-of-polio.html Accessed on September 3, 2015. "Remarks On The 15th Anniversary Of The International Conference On Population And Development." Hillary Rodham Clinton. Secretary of State. Washington D.C. January 8, 2010. U.S. Department of State website. http://www.state.gov/secretary/20092013clinton/rm/2010/01/135001.htm Accessed on September 3, 2015. "Remarks On The 15th Anniversary Of The International Conference On Population And Development." Hillary Rodham Clinton. Secretary of State. Washington D.C. January 8, 2010. U.S. Department of State website. http://www.state.gov/secretary/20092013clinton/rm/2010/01/135001.htm Accessed on September 3, 2015. Rappoport, Jon. "Common Core Education: The Insane Bottom Line." Activist Post. April 4, 2015. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/04/common-core-education-insane-bottom-line.html Accessed on September 3, 2015. Callaghan, Heather. "3rd Grade Government Homework: Good Citizens Do Not Argue." Activist Post. January 27, 2014. http://www.activistpost.com/2014/01/3rd-grade-government-homework-good.html Accessed on September 3, 2015. Layton, Lindsey. "How Bill Gates Pulled Off The Swift Common Core Revolution." Washington Post. June 7, 2014. http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/how-bill-gates-pulled-off-the-swift-common-core-revolution/2014/06/07/a830e32e-ec34-11e3-9f5c-9075d5508f0a_story.html Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Turbeville, Brandon. "Bill Gates Says Global Vaccination Is God's Work.'" Activist Post. January 26, 2013. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/01/bill-gates-says-global-vaccination.html Accessed on September 2, 2015.
Hatamoto, Michael. "Bill Gates Plugs GMOs To Reduce Starvation In Africa." Daily Tech. February 24, 2015. http://www.dailytech.com/Bill+Gates+Plugs+GMOs+to+Reduce+Starvation+in+Africa/article37190.htm Accessed on September 2, 2015.
Callaghan, Heather. "Bill Gates' Temporary Sterilization Microchip In Beta Female Testing By End Of The Year." Activist Post. July 2, 2015. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/07/bill-gates-temporary-sterilization.html Accessed on September 2, 2015.
Helderman, Rosalind S. "Here Are The Seven Biggest Donors To The Bill, Hillary And Chelsea Clinton Foundation." Washington Post. February 19, 2015. http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/02/19/here-are-the-7-biggest-donors-to-the-bill-hillary-and-chelsea-clinton-foundation/ Accessed on September 2, 2015.
"UPDATED: Hillary Rodham Clinton, Melinda Gates, And Chelsea Clinton Join International And Community Leaders For Official Release Of The No Ceilings Full Participation Report On Status Of Women And Girls." Clinton Foundation. March 5, 2015. https://www.clintonfoundation.org/press-releases/updated-hillary-rodham-clinton-melinda-gates-and-chelsea-clinton-join-international Accessed on September 2, 2015.
England, Christina. "Minimum Of 40 Children Paralyzed After New Meningitis Vaccine." VacTruth. January 6, 2013. http://vactruth.com/2013/01/06/paralyzed-after-meningitis-vaccine/ Accessed on September 2, 2015.
Dykes, Aaron. "Paralysis Cases Spike In Wake Of Bill Gates' Polio Vaccination Effort In India." Infowars.com. April 6, 2012. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/09/lebanon-protest-leaders-reveal-connections-to-western-color-revolution-apparatus.html Accessed on September 2, 2015.
Mudur, G.S. "Flip Side Of India's Polio Success Story Country Needs To Pencil Strategy To Fight Infection Triggered By Vaccine Itself, Say Experts." The Telegraph (India). January 16, 2012. http://www.telegraphindia.com/1120116/jsp/frontpage/story_15011108.jsp#.UQGYn_I5iE9 Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Ji, Sayer. "Polio Vaccines Now The #1 Cause Of Polio Paralysis." Activist Post. January 18, 2012. http://www.activistpost.com/2012/01/polio-vaccines-now-1-cause-of-polio.html Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Flu and Flu Vaccines: What's Coming Through That Needle. Dr. Sherri Tenpenny.
"Remarks On The 15th Anniversary Of The International Conference On Population And Development." Hillary Rodham Clinton. Secretary of State. Washington D.C. January 8, 2010. U.S. Department of State website. http://www.state.gov/secretary/20092013clinton/rm/2010/01/135001.htm Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Rappoport, Jon. "Common Core Education: The Insane Bottom Line." Activist Post. April 4, 2015. http://www.activistpost.com/2015/04/common-core-education-insane-bottom-line.html Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Callaghan, Heather. "3rd Grade Government Homework: Good Citizens Do Not Argue." Activist Post. January 27, 2014. http://www.activistpost.com/2014/01/3rd-grade-government-homework-good.html Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Layton, Lindsey. "How Bill Gates Pulled Off The Swift Common Core Revolution." Washington Post. June 7, 2014. http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/how-bill-gates-pulled-off-the-swift-common-core-revolution/2014/06/07/a830e32e-ec34-11e3-9f5c-9075d5508f0a_story.html Accessed on September 3, 2015.
Return to Windows-Microsoft-Bill Gates
Return to The Clintons - America Politics
