# How the Term "Satan" Originated and How Satanism Controls entities

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/master_file/satanicconnection.htm

How the Term "Satan" Originated
and
How Satanism Controls entities
This Awareness indicates that they are generally taught through the satanic movement that they can overcome any insecurity by accumulating greater and greater power. Therefore, they become involved in this quest for power, but the quest for power also asks them to sacrifice something to the Satanic power, and many of these entities will have at some point or another, either sacrificed one of their own, or sacrificed something of their own to that satanic power, and they begin to become accepted in that circle and they may help one another to gain greater wealth by being part of the group, but along the way they also are asked to participate in further sacrifices or to carry out some action of less than the highest, and more often, extremely debased in nature.
For example, they may be asked to participate in a ritual in which some entity is sacrificed, and they are to be the one who places the blade for the sacrifice, or assists in the killing of an entity, and if they do not participate in this, then of course they are not a full party in the group and are looked upon as not being worthy, and therefore, they either join in the negative behavior and criminal act, or they lose face and position in the group.
If they go along they will be rewarded, but they also are vulnerable to blackmail. If they should ever try to tell it or get out of the group, they can be blackmailed, for they have witness who saw the dastardly deed take place, and saw this entity did it himself. This Awareness indicates that the more they participate the deeper they may get into the participation of crimes so that eventually they have done so many of these things that they cannot extract themselves, they cannot get out without the great threat of their associates turning against them.
Satanists
the Mayor Threat in the 90's - Three Types of Entities on Earth Plane Today
(Revelations of Awareness newsletter 89-10)
This Awareness indicates that this will be the greater concern of the masses during the 1990's; that this indeed can eventually lead to a new type of Armageddon between these forces of misguided beings who seek power and who enjoy the action of cruelty and sadism. This Awareness indicates essentially there are three types of entities on the Earth plane:
those who are associated with the attitude exemplified by the Christ, of loving one another, and of clarity in relationship
those who are exemplified by the attitude as Luciferian, who will deceive and who will manipulate and misrepresent information in order to gain power and advantage over to others and who basically see themselves as separate and important, more important than others
those who are represented and symbolized by that which has been termed Satanic; whose interest and joy lies in watching the suffering of others. They seek power not simply to be in control, but to be able to harm others. These are the Sadists of society. They enjoy inflicting pain in whatever way they can
How the Term "Satan" Originated
This Awareness indicates that in reality, there is no such being as Satan. It is simply a creation of man, and the energies associated with this as being created as the movement grows and the creation of such energies as a personification of such energies. Originally, Satan was nothing other than the planet Saturn in an astrological quality. It was the Egyptian Set, the Egyptian God known as Set, which represented Satan or Saturn; the Persians, instead of calling it Saturn or set, called the planet Satan, and personified the planet as though it were a person. This Awareness indicates that the Persians were the first to invent the personification of that which was called Satan. Later, the time being in approximately the mid part of the Christian Age, Western mystics, in studying various religions, latched on to the Persian teachings of Satan and brought into the Christian religion. Prior to that there was no Satan.
This Awareness indicates that it then led to modification in the biblical texts, and let to various types of change in the scriptures and attitudes and terminologies used in the teachings, so that instead of Saturn or Set, the terms for Satan became as though the entity were a person; that in this manner, a force was personified. This Awareness indicates that the personification of this force in modern times is such that entities are treating this personification, this creation, as though it were a real being, and are worshipping this force.
The Philosophy of Satanism
This Awareness indicates that the Satanic philosophy is that the entity claiming to be God of the Judeo-Christian philosophy, the Jewish god Jehovah, as having been a false god, and that Christ was misled, and was a cooperative of this philosophy, and that essentially, these two beings,-the god of the Jews or Hebrews, and the Son of God as Jesus the Christ, were in reality, creations of a false God by the Hebrews and the followers of the Hebrew influence.
This Awareness indicates that these entities, --the Satanists,-- teach that Satan or Natas, was the true God of the universe, and has been slandered and falsely blamed for all of the ills of the world, and that he, as the True Creator, having taking on all the hostility and karma of the universe, awaits for these false forces to play out their roles, their games, when at that time he will again be redeemed and recognized as the true creator of the universe. This Awareness indicates this essentially is a rough concept of the satanic philosophy.
This Awareness indicates that this philosophy also includes the belief that those who align themselves with Natas, or Satan, will have greater power over others. This Awareness indicates that these entities often in meeting places, meditate and pray to Natas or Satan, that the energy enter into them and give them the powers which will redeem the forces of Satan. This Awareness indicates that this unusual philosophic concept or belief of Satanism reaches back into Greek mythological character, having horns and the feet of a goat, half man, half goat.
The Seduction of the Young:
Perversions, Bestiality, ritual Human Sacrifice: More Common today than entities want to believe
This Awareness indicates that there is considerable reason for looking deeply at the satanic movement, and it is true that these entities have been around for thousands of years. This Awareness indicates however, that in the past, their activities have not been so noxious as in the recent years and months, whereby they have begun to spread their teachings among young people, and, coupling this with drug use, these young people become extremely vulnerable to their teachings and ritual sacrifice in such a manner as to bring these things into extreme polarity on a larger scale, so that society must become aware of what is occurring.
This Awareness indicates it is one thing for people from such a group to consider such thoughts and concepts as are expounded in the philosophies of Satan and Bael churches or groups, but it is quite something else when they begin to activate rites of human sacrifice. It is enough to tolerate the ritualistic slaughtering of animals in their rites, but it has in recent time become more and more predominant in these groups to indulge in immoralities, perversions and bestiality, including also murder in these rites.
This Awareness indicates the problem is much more widespread that anyone would care to believe; that there are also situations in which children not only are victims of some of these rites, there are also situations in which the members of such groups, Satanists movements, are involving their own children in witnessing these ritualistic sacrifices of others, including other children, and in fact, in some instances, use the children as the instrument of sacrificing other children.
This Awareness indicates this being forced upon the children with threats that if they do not participate and also, if they speak of this to anyone, they too will be sacrificed in a similar ritual, or they too will witness the sacrifice of other loved ones in the family. This Awareness indicates that this sounds unbelievable to the average and reasonable mind, yet there is a philosophy propounded by these entities who see this as a reasonable normal part of their own view of their lives, and do not wince or feel any conscience in regard to the type of behavior and actions of such rituals.
This Awareness reminds entities to refer always to Satan as the myth of Satan, so that others begin to think in this way, for it detracts greatly from the power of that myth to have it called a myth. This is an example of making entities free.
In the New World Order Prostitution and Pornography will increase
Thus, prostitution and pornography will become an even greater and more open industry after the New World Order is fully implemented. At present it is an industry that is hidden behind the scenes. This Awareness indicates that generally, when something of this nature is implemented in society, there is a way of impressing society that it is necessary for the security of the nation or of the people, and when this is used as an argument, in most cases, the people will accept it.
This Awareness indicates however, as has been said, entities who put too much value on security open themselves to become victims of maximum security, thus, slavery and bondage becomes an outcome of excessive security and entities give up freedoms and the right to express themselves, or the desire to have decency as representing their governments and leaders.
At this time, the value of decency has eroded so greatly that most politicians can be indecent and still win the election if they can show how they are helping the masses improve their lifestyle and their security in their lives. There are many entities who have been conditioned to think that money gives them freedom; that money and security are the bottom line for a happy life. They have not fully thought through how much value there is in being free or in being able to go from one place to another having to get a permission from some authority.
As entities become more dependent on government it puts them back into the position they experienced as children when their parents were overbearing, overcontrolling, and when as children, they could only dream of growing up and becoming independent adults. But many adults do not know what to do with their freedom and thus enjoy subjecting themselves to an overbearing government and are willing to lose their freedoms in order to have greater protection and greater benefits from the governments that they choose to serve them.
The silent masses
When this becomes the greater, value, they can be persuaded to remain placid and quiet and silent and go along, to get along, even when the government begins to raid their neighbor's homes, take the neighbor's children, et cetera, and they will not ask: "What happened ? Where did they go?" or if they do, and the government simply says "We are taking care of the entity's family. The entity committed crimes and we have moved the family to a safe place," the masses will say "Oh! That's good!," without further investigation.
This Awareness indicates if they did attempt to investigate, they would run into those who stopped them from going further in their investigation. They would run into stories and statements to assure them that "All is well, the entity will get a fair trial, the family is relocated in a nice place, in a nice home, and therefore, you need not worry about their safety and their welfare any further." Meanwhile the family may be up on the blocks being sold into white slavery or shipped to another country for further use as human resources in slavery or in prostitution or some other money-making activity.
This Awareness indicates if there are enough people who awaken to this diabolic activity that is now progressing, it may not be possible for these entities to continue their program. They are really a relatively small group when compared to the billions of people in the world. It is just that they have control over the media, and because they have control over the media and over money, they are able to keep others quiet and to intimidate the masses. This Awareness indicates once the masses awaken like a giant mob or a giant army of citizens, these entities would have absolutely no chance of ruling a New World Government to subject the masses to slavery.
*
UNICEF sex book remains in print May 11, 2002 By
George Archibald THE WASHINGTON
TIMES NEW YORK - A U.N.-financed sex-education manual for teens that promotes
abortion, homosexuality and even sex with animals has not been withdrawn in
Latin American nations as UNICEF says it has, current and former government
officials from Mexico and Nicaragua said yesterday.
http://www.washtimes.com/national/20020511-32784532.htm
*
The FISTGATE Report "Fisting [forcing one’s entire hand into another person’s
rectum or vagina] often gets a bad rap....[It’s] an experience of letting
somebody into your body that you want to be that close and intimate with...[and]
to put you into an exploratory mode." Students Given Graphic Instruction In
Homosexual Sex By Brian Camenker and Scott Whiteman May 2000 The above quotation
comes from Massachusetts Department of Education employees describing the
pleasures of homosexual sex to a group of high school students at a state-sponsored
workshop on March 25, 2000. On March 25, a statewide conference, called "Teach-Out,"
was sponsored by the Massachusetts Department of Education, the Governor’s
Commission on Gay and Lesbian Youth, and the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education
Network. Among the goals were to build more Gay/Straight Alliances in Massachusetts
and expand homosexual teaching into the lower grades. Scores of gay-friendly
teachers and administrators attended. They received state "professional development
credits." Teenagers and children as young as 12 were encouraged to come from
around the state, and many were bussed in from their home districts. Homosexual
activists from across the country were also there. To say that the descriptions
below of workshops and presentations of this state-sponsored event for educators
and children are "every parent’s nightmare," does not do them justice. It
is beyond belief that this could be happening at all. One music teacher who
attended out of curiosity said that she could not sleep for several nights
afterwards and had nightmares about it.
http://www.massnews.com/past_issues/2000/9_Sept/900fist1.htm
Next page "About New Age & Christian Religion must change"
