# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1254.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1254.html

May 1947
(Part of this message and the one following it on Page 612 appear in chapters III and VII of The Reappearance of the Christ. Chronologically they belong in the historical sequence here given).
Year after year I have written you (and all who care to listen) a message which has often been prophetic, always related to the fundamental spiritual union of the East and the West, of the Buddha and the Christ, and which has consistently laid emphasis upon the immediate spiritual opportunity. Every year I have prepared these messages with great care, and in their synthesis there emerges (if you have read them in order and intelligently) a picture of the spiritual life of the world. It is a picture which involves the knowable past, which concerns the immediate present, and carries forward into a future of spiritual unfoldment, transcending in [592] expression all that has hitherto been known, because it has ever been based on the reality, on the fact of God Immanent.
God Transcendent, greater, vaster and more inclusive than His created world, is universally recognized and has been generally emphasized; all faiths can say with Shri Krishna (speaking as God, the Creator) that "having pervaded the whole universe with a fragment of Myself, I remain." This God Transcendent has dominated the religious thinking of millions of simple and spiritually-minded people down the centuries which have elapsed since humanity began to press forward towards divinity.
Slowly, there is dawning upon the awakening consciousness of humanity, the great paralleling truth of God Immanent - divinely "pervading" all forms, conditioning from within all kingdoms in nature, expressing innate divinity through human beings and - two thousand years ago - portraying the nature of that divine Immanence in the Person of the Christ. Today, as an outcome of this unfolding divine Presence, there is entering into the minds of men everywhere a new concept: that of Christ in us, the hope of Glory. There is a growing and developing belief that Christ is in us, as He was in the Master Jesus, and this belief will alter world affairs and mankind's entire attitude to life.
The wonder of that Life lived two thousand years ago is still with us and has lost none of its freshness; it is an eternal inspiration, hope, encouragement and example. The love He demonstrated still holds the thinking world in thrall, even though relatively few have really attempted to demonstrate the same quality of love as He did - a love that leads unerringly to world service, to complete self-forgetfulness and to radiant, magnetic living. The words He spoke were few and simple, and all men can understand them, but their significance has largely been lost in the intricate legalities and discussions of St. Paul, and the lengthy disputations of theological commentators since He lived and left us - or apparently left us.
Yet - today Christ is nearer to humanity than at any other time in human history; He is closer than the most [593] aspiring and hopeful disciple knows, and can draw closer still if what I here propose to write is understood and brought to the attention of men everywhere. For Christ belongs to humanity, to the world of men, and not only to the churches and faiths throughout the world.
Around Him - in that High Place on Earth where He has His abiding place - are gathered today all His great Disciples, the Masters of the Wisdom, and all Those liberated Sons of God Who, down the ages, have passed from darkness to Light, from the unreal to the Real, and from death to Immortality; They stand ready to carry out His bidding and to obey the Master of all the Masters and the Teacher alike of Angels and of men. The Exponents and the Representatives of all the world faiths are there waiting - under His guidance - to reveal to all those who today struggle in the maelstrom of world affairs, and who seek to solve the world crisis, that they are not alone. God Transcendent is working through the Christ and the Spiritual Hierarchy to bring relief; God Immanent in all men is standing on the verge of certain stupendous Recognitions.
The great Apostolic Succession of the Knowers of God is poised today for renewed activity - a Succession of Those Who have lived on earth, accepted the fact of God Transcendent, discovered the reality of God Immanent, portrayed in Their Own lives the divine characteristics of the Christ life and (because They lived on earth as He did and does) have "entered for us within the veil, leaving us an example that we too should follow His steps," and Theirs. We too belong eventually in that great Succession.
