# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1203.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1203.html

Forget not one important point. The Hierarchy itself is the result of human activity and aspiration; it has been created by humanity. Its members are human beings who have lived, suffered, achieved, failed, attained success, endured death and passed through the experience of resurrection. They are the same in nature as are those who struggle today with the processes of disintegration but who - nevertheless - have in them the seed of resurrection. All states of consciousness are known to Them and They have mastered all of them; They have mastered them as men, thus guaranteeing to humanity the same ultimate achievement. We are apt to look upon the members of the Hierarchy [473] as different radically from humanity, forgetting that the Hierarchy is a community of successful men, Who earlier submitted Themselves to the purificatory fires of daily living, working out their own salvation as men and women of affairs, as business men, as husbands and wives, farmers and rulers and that they know life, therefore, in all its phases and gradation. They have surmounted the experiences of life; Their great Master is the Christ; They have passed through the initiations of the new birth, the baptism, the transfiguration, the final crucifixion and the resurrection. But they still are men and differ from the Christ only in the fact that He, the first of our humanity to attain divinity, the Eldest in a great family of brothers (as St. Paul expresses it), the Master of the Masters and the Teacher of angels and of men was deemed so pure, so holy and so enlightened that He was permitted to embody for us the great cosmic principle of love; He thus revealed to us, for the first time, the nature of the heart of God.
These perfected men, therefore, exist; They are more than men because the divine spirit in them registers all stages of consciousness and awareness - subhuman, human and superhuman. This inclusive development enables them to work with men, to contact humanity at need, and to know how to lead us forward to the phases of resurrection.
There is no need for me to enlarge at this point upon the world that They are attempting to aid and to salvage. The state of humanity today is known to all truly thinking people. Devastation, crucifixion, slaughter and death are widespread; sorrow, pain, disillusionment and pessimism are conditioning the thinking and the reactions of millions, whilst the plight of the unthinking but helpless masses has reached an inconceivable height of misery. The ignorance, lack of understanding, and selfishness of men everywhere, particularly in the countries which have escaped the ravages of war, aggravate the situation. Nevertheless with serenity and confidence, the Hierarchy today faces its arduous task.
One aspect of Their work and attitude I would like to touch upon, for it is apt to cause misunderstanding among [474] those with narrow vision and (if I may describe them) with constricted, though loving, hearts. I refer to the attitude taken by the Hierarchy during the past years of war. This attitude has caused some to find in it cause for criticism. Let me be explicit and also bring in the time equation. I can well do so, because it was through my writings that the position of the Hierarchy was affirmed and publicly stated.
In 1932, I wrote a series of pamphlets which were intended to mobilize the disciples of the world under the name of the New Group of World Servers and to arouse the men and women of goodwill in a final effort to awaken humanity to the need for change. I endeavored to institute a worldwide house cleaning and to incite men to take the steps which were needed to avert war - a war which the Hierarchy saw coming closer, day by day. In a way unrealized and undreamt of by the average man, the Forces of Evil were in a most potent manner emerging from their ancient lair; they were intent upon seeking those whom they could mould and obsess, and thus hurry mankind towards disaster. They found minds responsive to their evil promptings in every country; they found also that it was possible to take possession of two countries, Japan and Germany and - to a very much less extent - of Italy.
The Hierarchy, foreseeing this, attempted to offset their efforts. They made appeal to the spiritually minded people of the world; Their appeal reached millions and culminated in May, 1936, in a planetary effort wherein the Great Invocation was used upon a large scale in most of the countries of the world. For another three years Their labor of love continued; They struggled to save humanity and to arouse men to their imminent peril; They endeavored to arrest the selfishness of humanity and to produce a new and fresh orientation to the spiritual values, and thus avert war. They failed. The men and women of goodwill and the spiritually minded people could not appreciate the true nature of the impending danger. Some recognized it and did their utmost; a few worked hard, trusting to the wisdom [475] of those who knew and asked their aid; most of them were disturbed and worried, but none of them appreciated properly the double danger with which humanity was faced: the danger arising out of human selfishness and greed, plus the danger which was nearing the Earth through the agency of the combined forces of evil. These forces were organized by beings of most evil and expert experience and were preparing to obsess and ultimately possess the negative German people, ruled by a group of men of such positive selfishness and aggressive materialistic spirit that they could easily become the agents of the subjective evil forces.
