# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1205.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1205.html

Therefore, when the war broke out and humanity chose to fight and the forces of evil were let loose upon our planet, the Hierarchy ceased its efforts to bring peace through goodwill and openly sided with those fighting to drive evil back whence it came, and to defeat the Axis nations. Because of this decision on Their part, unthinking people claim that the statements of those who represent the Hierarchy on earth have been contradictory and that the actions of the Hierarchy have not been compatible with their preconceived ideas of how love should be demonstrated. For the past five years, therefore, the efforts of the Christ and of His followers, the Masters of the Wisdom, have been directed towards clarifying the true issues in the minds of men, towards indicating the lines along which right action should be taken, and towards unifying inter-allied policies. They have been occupied with banding together the men of goodwill throughout the world in preparation for the Cycle of Conferences and the coming world readjustments. They have sought to protect the sufferers, organizing methods of relief, guiding the minds of army leaders, and arousing public opinion to take those steps which will eventually lead to right human relations. Temporarily, the German people and the Japanese have been left to their fate and to the tender mercies of the armies of evil; the present debacle in Germany is a testimony as to what evil can bring upon those who follow it. With all these modes of strengthening the Forces of Light and of extricating humanity from the descended evil, the Hierarchy has also been occupied with lines of activity which may not be disclosed, because they concern the handling of the subjective forces of evil. The potency of these forces will be realized if the length of time which the war has lasted is considered and also the fact that two nations have been able to withstand - until the past few months - an entire world of nations united against them.
This is a phenomenal fact in itself and a witness to the [479] strength of the evil group - objective and subjective - which has sought to gain dominance over mankind. Had the Hierarchy not taken sides with the United Nations and thrown the power of its thought into the battle, victory might still be a long way off. Today it is well-nigh in our hands.
As I said elsewhere, it is a fallacy to believe, as some do, that the main trend of Christ's work is through the medium of the churches or the world religions. He necessarily works through them when conditions permit and there is a living nucleus of true spirituality within them, or when their invocative appeal is potent enough to reach Him. He uses all possible channels whereby the consciousness of man may be enlarged and right orientation may be brought about. It is, however, truer to say that it is as World Teacher that He consistently works, and that the churches are but one of the teaching avenues He employs. All that enlightens the minds of men, all propaganda that tends to bring about right human relations, all modes of acquiring real knowledge, all methods of transmuting knowledge into wisdom and understanding, all that expands the consciousness of humanity and of all subhuman states of awareness and sensitivity, all that dispels glamor and illusion and that disrupts crystallization and disturbs all static conditions, come under the realistic activities of the department within the Hierarchy which He supervises. He is limited by the quality and the caliber of the invocative appeal of humanity and that, in its turn, is conditioned by the point in evolution attained.
In the Middle Ages of history, and earlier, it was the churches and the schools of philosophy which provided the major avenues for His activity, but it is not so today; this is a point which the churches and organized religion would do well to remember. There is now a shift of His emphasis and attention into two new fields of endeavor: first, into the field of worldwide education, and secondly, into the sphere of implementing intelligently those activities which come under the department of government in its three aspects of statesmanship, politics and legislature. The common people are today awakening to the importance and [480] responsibility of government; it is therefore realized by the Hierarchy that before the cycle of true democracy (as it essentially exists and will eventually demonstrate) can come into being, the education of the masses in cooperative statesmanship, in economic stabilization through right sharing, and in clean, political interplay is imperatively necessary. The long divorce between religion and politics must be ended, and this can now come about because of the high level of the human mass intelligence and the fact that science has made all men so close that what happens in some remote area of the earth's surface is a matter of general interest within a few minutes. Time and space are now negated.
