# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1262.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1262.html

The question now arises: In what way can we be of service? How can we aid during this preparatory stage?
On this point I have but little to say. The whole idea of His return is so familiar to you in its anticipatory nature (though not in the factual details as I have hinted them to you) that I find it hard to say anything practical or which will arrest your attention. [610]
What the members of the spiritual Hierarchy are doing is much indeed; those disciples who are in conscious touch with the Masters of the Wisdom - or, if you prefer the term, with the senior disciples of the Christ - are working day and night in order to establish such confidence, correct attitudes and understanding of the divine spiritual "push" or enterprise that His way will be made easier. They and their groups of lesser disciples, aspirants and students of the realities stand unitdely behind the Christ and can thus enable Him to accomplish His purpose. Their major realization is that of a cyclic crisis in the spiritual life of our planet; it is one which has been anticipated in the Father's House (Shamballa) for thousands of years. They have registered the fact that, for the first time in human history, all the three spiritual centers or groups through which God works are unitedly focused on the same objective. Shamballa, the Spiritual Hierarchy, and Humanity (the Father's House, the Kingdom of God, and the world of men) are all striving in one vast movement for an intensification of the Light of the World. This Light will irradiate in a fashion unknown before, not only the Father's House, which is the source of all our planetary light, but also the spiritual center from which have come all Those Teachers and World Saviors Who have stood before men and said, as did Hermes, the Buddha and the Christ: "I am the Light of the World." This light will now flood the world of men, bringing illumination to men's minds and light into the dark places of human living.
It is light and - above all else - "life more abundantly" which Christ will bring, and until He brings it we know not what it signifies; we cannot realize the revelation which this will entail and the new possibilities which will open before us. But through Him, light and life are on their way, to be interpreted and applied in terms of goodwill and of right human relations. For this the spiritual Hierarchy is preparing. This time the Christ will not come alone, for His co-workers will come with Him. His experience and Theirs will be the reverse of the previous one, for this time [611] every eye will see Him, every ear will hear Him, and every mind will pass judgment upon Him.
