# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1259.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1259.html

2. Christ taught also that the Kingdom of God is on Earth and told us to seek that Kingdom first and let all things go for its sake. That Kingdom has ever been with us, composed of all those who, down the ages, have sought spiritual goals, liberated themselves from the limitations of the physical body, emotional controls and the obstructive mind. Its citizens are those who today (unknown to the majority) live in physical bodies, work for the welfare of humanity, use love instead of emotion as their general technique, and compose that great body of "illumined Minds" which guide the destiny of the world. The Kingdom of God is not something which will descend on earth when men are good enough! It is something which is functioning efficiently today and demanding recognition. It is an organized body which is already evoking recognition from those people who [604] do seek first the Kingdom of God and discover thereby that the Kingdom they seek is already here. Christ and His disciples are known by many to be physically present on Earth and the Kingdom which They rule, with its laws and modes of activity are familiar to many, and have been throughout the centuries.
Christ is the World Healer and Savior. He works because He is the embodied soul of all Reality. He works today, as he worked in Palestine two thousand years ago, through groups. There He worked through the three beloved disciples, through the twelve apostles, through the chosen seventy, and the interested five hundred...Now He works through His Masters and Their groups, and thereby greatly intensifies His efforts. He can and will work through all groups just in so far as they fit themselves for planned service, for the distribution of love, and come into conscious alignment with the great potency of the inner groups.
Esotericists, occult students, Rosicrucians and Theosophists have always proclaimed the physical Presence of the Christ, but have so distorted the teaching by dogmatic assertions on unimportant details and by ridiculous claims, that they have evoked little recognition of the underlying truth, nor have they portrayed a Kingdom which is attractive. Yet that Kingdom exists and is not a place of disciplines or golden harps and peopled by unintelligent fanatics, but a field of service and a place where every man has full scope for the exercise of his divinity in human service.
