# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1261.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1261.html

There is one aspect of this return of the Christ which is never touched upon and to which no reference is ever made. I, a humble disciple of the Christ, would like here to speak of it. It is the factor of what this coming out again among men, this return to outer everyday activity, will mean to the Christ as He faces it. How will He feel when the hour of His appearance arrives? [607]
There is a great initiation spoken of in the New Testament, to which we have given the name of the Ascension. Of it we know nothing. Only a few items of information are brought to us in the Gospel story: the fact of the mountain top, of attendant watchers, and of the words of Christ, assuring them that He was not leaving them. Then the clouds received Him out of their sight. There were none present who could go further with Him. Their consciousness could not penetrate to the place where He had chosen to go; they even misinterpreted His words and only in a vague and mystical sense has humanity ever understood His disappearance or the significance of His persistent but unobserved Presence. The watchers were assured by two of the Knowers of God Who were also present that He would come again in like manner. He ascended. The clouds received Him and today the clouds which cover our planet are waiting to reveal Him.
He is now waiting to descend. This descent into our unhappy world of men can present Him with no alluring picture. From the quiet mountain retreat where He has waited, guided and watched over humanity, and where He has trained His disciples, initiates and the new group of world servers, He must come forth and take His place prominently on the world stage, and take His part in the great drama which is there being played. This time, He will play His part, not in obscurity as He previously did, but before the eyes of the entire world. Because of the smallness of our little planet, and because of the prevalence of the radio, television and the rapidity of communication, His part will be watched by all, and the prospect must surely, for Him, hold certain horror, must present its tests and major adjustments, plus painful and unavoidable experience. He does not come as the omnipotent God of man's ignorant creation, but as the Christ, the Founder of the Kingdom of God on Earth, to complete the work He started, and again to demonstrate divinity in far more difficult circumstances.
The Christ suffers, however, far more from those in [608] His Own household than from those in the outer world; His work is more impeded by the advanced aspirant than by the intelligent thinker. It was not the cruelty of the outer world of men which caused the depths of sorrow to the Christ; it was His Own disciples, plus the massed sorrow - spread over the entire cycle of living - past, present and future - of humanity.
He comes to correct the mistakes and the misrepresentations of those who have dared to interpret His simple words in terms of their own ignorance, and to recognize those whose faithful service has made His return possible. He too is facing a major test, preparatory to a great initiation, and when He has passed the test and fulfiled His task He will pass to a still more exalted position in the Father's House or to some distant place of service where only the most exalted can follow Him; His present position will then be taken by the One Whom He has prepared and trained.
But before all this can happen He must again enter the public arena, play His part in world affairs and prove the scope of His mission. He will gather around Him, in the flesh, His chosen associates and advisors; these will not be the ones who gathered around Him in those earlier simpler days, but those members of our human family who today recognize Him and are preparing to work with Him as far as in them lies. It is a different world to which He is now planning to return and this is largely due to the intellectual development of the mass of men. This presents Him with stupendous difficulties, for the intellects of men must now be reached and not just their hearts (as in the earlier days), if the Will of God is to be intelligently carried out on Earth. His major task is surely the establishing of right human relations in every department of human living. I would ask you to use your divine imagination and endeavor to think out what must be the implications of the task which confronts Him; I would ask you to ponder on the difficulties which He must inevitably face - the difficulty, above all, of mass intellectual wrong emphasis. [609]
