# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1263.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1263.html

If you can succeed in presenting these four ideas to the world at large, thus overcoming the intelligent criticism that all that is said is too vague, prophetic, and visionary, you will do much. It is possible, surely, that the ancient truism, "the mind is the slayer of the real" may be fundamentally true where the mass of humanity is concerned, and that the purely intellectual approach (which rejects the vision and refuses to accept the unprovable) may be far more at fault than the anticipations of the Knowers of God and the expectant multitude.
The intelligence of divinity is vested in the spiritual Hierarchy, and that Hierarchy is today composed of Those Who have united in Themselves both the intellect and the intuition, the practical and the apparently impractical, the factual way of life and the way of the man who sees a vision. There are also the people who must be found in the market [612] place of daily life; these are the people who must be trained in the divine recognitions which are essentially physical plane responses to the new expansions of consciousness. The Christ Who will return will not be like the Christ Who (apparently) departed. He will not be a "man of sorrows"; He will not be a silent, pensive figure; He will be the enunciator of spiritual statements which will not necessitate interpretation (and give rise to misinterpretation) because He will be present to indicate the true meaning.
He has been for two thousand years the supreme Head of the Church Invisible, the spiritual Hierarchy, composed of disciples of all faiths. He recognizes and loves those who are not Christian but who retain their allegiance to their Founders - the Buddha, Mohammed, and others. He cares not what the faith is, if the objective is love of God and of humanity. If men look for the Christ Who left His disciples centuries ago they will fail to recognize the Christ Who is in process of returning. The Christ has no religious barriers in His consciousness. It matters not to Him of what faith a man may call himself.
The Son of God is on His way and He cometh not alone. His advance guard is already here and the Plan which they must follow is already made and clear. Let recognition be the aim.
