# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1265.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/exter/exte1265.html

These factors, when realized by thinking men and women, produce a deep discouragement and a sense of futility and hopelessness. Instead, they should be faced [616] with courage, with truth and understanding, as well as with the willingness to speak factually, with simplicity and with love in the effort to expose the truth and clarify the problems which must be solved. The opposing forces of entrenched evil must be routed before He for Whom all men wait, the Christ, can come.
The knowledge that He is ready and anxious publicly to appear to His loved humanity only adds to the sense of general frustration, and another very vital question arises: For what period of time must we endure, struggle and fight? The reply comes with clarity; He will come unfailingly when a measure of peace has been restored, when the principle of sharing is at least in process of controlling economic affairs, and when the churches have begun to clean house. Then He can and will come; then the Kingdom of God will be publicly recognized and will no longer be a thing of dreams and of ideals.
Aspirants are prone to ask the question as to why the Christ does not come - in the pomp and ceremony which the churches ascribe to the event - and by His coming demonstrate His divine power, prove convincingly the authority and the potency of God, and thus end the cycle of agony and distress. The answers to this are many. It must be remembered that the main objective of the Christ will not be to demonstrate power but to make public the already existent Kingdom of God. Again, when He came before He was unrecognized, and is there any guarantee that this time it would be different? You may ask why would He not be recognized? Because men's eyes are blinded with the tears of self-pity and not of contrition; because the hearts of men are still corroded with a selfishness which the agony of war has not cured; because the standards of value are the same as in the corrupt Roman Empire which saw His first appearance, only in those days these standards were localized and not universal; because those who could recognize Him and who hope and long for His coming are not willing to make the needed sacrifices, and thus ensure the success of His advent. [617]
Another factor militating against His being recognized, and one which will probably surprise you, is the fact that there are so many exceedingly good people in the world today, so many selfless workers and disciples and so many truly saintly people, that the spiritual competition would call forth a degree of holiness on His part which would negate His appropriation of a physical body of a caliber which would enable Him to manifest among men. This was not the case two thousand years ago; it is, however, the case today, so great is human advancement and the success of the evolutionary process. To enable Him today to walk among men requires a world which will have in it enough effective workers and spiritually-minded people to change the atmosphere of our planet; then and only then, the Christ can and will, come. I am not, however, presenting you with an impossibility.
