# https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1257.html

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/exter/exte1257.html

The Wesak Festival has been held, down the centuries, in the well-known valley in the Himalayas (if the faithful would only believe it) in order:
Perhaps one of the major messages I have for all of you who read my words is this great truth and fact of the physical Presence on Earth at this time of the Christ, of His group of Disciples and Executives, of Their representative activities on behalf of mankind and of Their close relationship. This relationship comes out at certain of the great spiritual Festivals where relationship includes not only the Kingdom of God but also the Father and the Father's Home. There is the Festival of Easter; the Festival of the Buddha [600] Who, in physical Presence, expresses the spiritual solidarity of our planet; and the Festival in June, peculiarly the Festival of the Christ, when He - as Leader of the new group of world servers - employs the new Invocation on behalf of all men of goodwill in all lands; at the same time, He gathers up the inchoate and unexpressed demands of those masses who seek a new and better way of life. They want love in daily living, right human relations, and an understanding of the underlying Plan.
It is these physical happenings which are of moment, and not the vague hopes and promises of the theological faiths. It is the physical Presence upon our planet of such recognized spiritual Figures as the Lord of the World, the Ancient of Days; the seven Spirits Who are before the throne of God; of the Buddha, the spiritual leader of the East, and the Christ, the spiritual leader of the West, which I bring at this climaxing time to your attention. To you I say that the vague belief in Their existence, the dreamy speculations as to Their work and Their interest in human welfare, and the unconvinced, yet hopeful, wishful thinking of believers (and also unbelievers), will soon give place to certain knowledge, to visual recognition, to provable signs of executive work, and to the reorganization (by men of unusual potency) of the political, religious, economic and social life of the planet.
All this will not come as the result of some proclamation or some stupendous planetary event which will force human beings everywhere to say: Lo! He is there! Lo! Here are the signs of His divinity! for that would evoke only antagonism and laughter, resistance or fanatical credulity. It will come as a recognition of potency in leadership, through dynamic but logical changes in world affairs, and through action taken by the masses of the people from the depths of their own consciousness.
