# Huge Media Blackout Regarding Earth and Moon Orbital Changes?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/ciencia/ciencia_earthchanges31.htm

20 October 2010
from BeforeItsNews Website
Spanish version
Unprecedented Earth changes are taking place at this time. L.A. had a record cool summer and a few days after summer is over, they shoot up to a record high 113 degrees. Parts of Brazil and Bolivia shattered record cold temps and were colder than Antarctica for much of July, killing millions of fish, and many alligators and fresh water dolphins!
Weather is going crazy around the world and all the mainstream media talks about is "climate change" "global warming"...etc. But they won't touch upon the True Cause, because for them it is too alarming. An increasing number of people around the world have witnessed amazing changes in the location of Sun rise and set in summer and winter. Apparently this is being caused by the earth moving below the old ecliptic plane in summer and above it in winter!
The moon is also playing rodeo all over the sky....and the media says nothing.
I have read of reports (as yet unsubstantiated) that a "gag order" is in place and professionals dealing with the subject have had to sign non-disclosure agreements regarding these facts.
The Inuit peoples of the high arctic have published several stories regarding the changes in sun position at their locations and were told by a meteorologist that it is an,
"optical phenomenon unique to the extremely high horizon".
Yet these changes are visible all over the world.
Ordinary citizens from all over the world are reporting their observations regarding the sun and moon changing their positions in the sky. And we're not just talking inches here. The changes are amazing to say the least!
The furthest north the sun traditionally appeared for thousands of years, was the tropic of cancer which passes through central Mexico, yet now, at the beginning of summer, it can be witnessed to rise in the direction of Maine and set in the direction of Seattle. And according to the universities, the highest latitude that the moon reaches, is 28.5 degrees, yet for the last couple years at least, it has transgressed that number by a significant margin!
One can watch the moon rise low in the south east and set in the southwest, at least from my position at 40 degrees north in the Midwest U.S. and then, within two weeks time, it will rise high in the northeast and set in the northwest, far north of 28.5 degrees.
According to WIRED magazine and others, scientists are perplexed at the mysterious high tides, and reports of "giant rogue waves" coming out of the clear blue, and Tsunami are on the increase, as are earthquakes in populated areas around the world.
Changes in the sun are being documented at a dizzying pace these days as well, and on the same day that a large asteroid hit Jupiter this summer, something impacted Venus. These were observed on the same day!
One can easily observe the sun rising too far north in summer and too far south in winter and these changes are, themselves, in a state of change.
I have assembled a long list of reputable sources of information in support of my observations and those of others, that these events are indeed taking place.
UPDATE Tracking huge global changes, as I have been doing for quite awhile now, I've seen various 'cause and effect' relationships between certain phenomenon.
One example is that as the moon nears it's new northern limit each month, a large earthquake occurs, usually in the southern hemisphere. I have informed readers at various locations on the net to be aware of this relationship, which seems to be occurring rather like clockwork as of late.
As of this writing, I have documented 4 examples of this apparent relationship, including the Christ Church New Zealand quake, and the 7.7 quake which just occurred.
The rise and descent angles of the moon at it's northern most point, which it is nearing as we speak, tell a strange story indeed. For if one projects an imaginary arc continuing down below the horizon upon moon rise and set, in accordance with it's visible ascent/descent vectors, one can clearly see that the moon is not orbiting the center mass of the planet at this time.
This spiraling orbit seems to have been set in motion as earth's orbit rises above the old ecliptic plane in winter and dips slightly below it in summer.
It is at these times, start of winter and summer, that the moon would have been influenced to begin orbiting in the manner currently being displayed, which also would account for the sun rising and setting so far north in summer and south in winter.
Think of how miniscule the change in earth orbit would have to be for us to witness a major change in latitude for sun rise/set, commensurate with changes in rise/set angles, which are surely what seem to be occurring at this time! I kept track of the sun last summer, from my position at 40 degrees north latitude in the Midwest U.S.
For almost a month or so, a couple weeks before and after June 21st, I could watch the sun rise at an odd angle roughly in the direction of Maine, and descend at the same strange angle toward sunset, roughly in the direction of Seattle.
What really piqued my interest was that the sun's after glow was visible well after sundown and this eerie glow proceeded northward and was quite visible until about 1:30AM disappearing until about 3:30AM as the glow crossed beneath the north pole, then began to glow brighter and brighter until the sun popped up in the north east. This seems to be a sure indicator that earth's orbit has changed and is moving above the old ecliptic plane in winter, and below it in summer! Such activity would also account for the moon's new orbital track, initiated at winter or summer solstice and exacerbated at those points in earth's orbit. These changes are constantly in flux due to an intimidating number of cosmic/physics variables! As the moon reaches it's monthly northern limit over the next few days, pay particular attention to it's rise and set angles, it's apparent planar traversing arc, and you will see that it clearly cannot be orbiting the earth's center mass.
As one waits a couple weeks or so and views it's orbit at it's southern extreme, one may realize that it does not take a physics expert to determine that the moon's orbit has changed considerably. It is orbiting in a 'spiral' fashion, rising and setting WELL north of the old northern maximum declination of 28.5 degrees north latitude.
Notice on the university chart below, how far the moon USED to travel (north and south) over the course of an entire year.
Look up and notice how far north and south it now swings in a single month, and how far north of the old maximum of 28.5 degrees north it rises and sets once a month.
Video
Something Wrong With The Sun, Moon & Earth by netlethe November 18, 2010
from YouTube Website
Something Wrong With The Sun Moon & EarthSun Moon & Earth out of kilter 01.55 Hrs 19th November 2010 Wiltshire UK So what has happened To The Moon it looks to be almost 90 degrees out of kilter !Wonder Why The Public Isn't Being Told About This, why the media blackout Is This Not IMPORTANT ?If the Moon does not Rotate And the Sun is always at the centre of our little corner of the UniverseWhat does this say about the orbit of The Earth, it's Rotation ? Something Strange & Unusual has happened Or is Happening ! Our Governments Are Not Telling Us No Change there then ! The Sun has been in the wrong place for the last 2 years that I've/We have noticed, and is lower on the Southern horizon again this winter, this we know & and can tell from our roof shadow cast in our north facing garden.! Here, the Sun is almost as low as it would be around Mid December that's 4 weeks or so out of sync ! Many good friends have confirmed their observations of the Sun in that, around the globe, we are definitely receiving the Sun's Rays from a differing angle over the past 2 years or so, this then helps us to understand my Moon observations as being in step with some form of Change within Our Galaxy....We have confirmation in another video ( In My Favs) some positive viewers observations, and some contradictions, which is what we expect on any issue., thanks for taking part.As Reported by many friends from differing parts of the globe, the Sun Has been "off track" for at least 2 years..I'd like to offer these few lines ... From around the globe, folk agree that the Sun Is Not doing it's usual thing, reports going back two years tell us this ... anyone looking for a change in tidal patterns would have to look back in time to find any change, when the Earth must have tilted.There was a suspected "Tilt" of 3 degrees or so following the Tsunami of 2004.Images of our Moon at this time show without doubt that: it has rotated slightly ! Why?... Has something smashed into it ??? our friend from Hawaii https://www.youtube.com/mrgalleria observes a strange secondary glow about the Moon, which could be "Ejecta" from the bombing a while back?.. as well as capturing Similar images to mine ! As the Sun is out of it's trajectory, this indicates that the Earth has Tilted slightly. The Moon does not spin & certainly not on an north east to south west axis ! Though it rotates once in every revolution around the Earth, Thus, We Always see the same face, well we used to that is.! The position of the Sun & Moon combine to create our ocean's tidal patterns If the distance between the Sun, Moon & Earth remains the same a good guess would be that tides would have changed slightly allowing for Earth's slight Tilting. Then settling. Tidal observations show that: In 2008 all around the globe there Were "Unusual & Unexplained Tidal Changes" many low & high tides in a short space of time on the same day !!. Does anyone KNOW the date the Earth Tilted ?... Without a doubt, it was more than 2 years ago ! The Earth orbits the Sun in an elliptical orbit being closest to it on 3rd January 2011 in this cycle.I could not find one image on the internet that shows the Same image as captured here in This video.
Something Wrong With The Sun Moon & EarthSun Moon & Earth out of kilter 01.55 Hrs 19th November 2010 Wiltshire UK So what has happened To The Moon it looks to be almost 90 degrees out of kilter !Wonder Why The Public Isn't Being Told About This, why the media blackout Is This Not IMPORTANT ?If the Moon does not Rotate And the Sun is always at the centre of our little corner of the UniverseWhat does this say about the orbit of The Earth, it's Rotation ? Something Strange & Unusual has happened Or is Happening ! Our Governments Are Not Telling Us No Change there then ! The Sun has been in the wrong place for the last 2 years that I've/We have noticed, and is lower on the Southern horizon again this winter, this we know & and can tell from our roof shadow cast in our north facing garden.! Here, the Sun is almost as low as it would be around Mid December that's 4 weeks or so out of sync ! Many good friends have confirmed their observations of the Sun in that, around the globe, we are definitely receiving the Sun's Rays from a differing angle over the past 2 years or so, this then helps us to understand my Moon observations as being in step with some form of Change within Our Galaxy....We have confirmation in another video ( In My Favs) some positive viewers observations, and some contradictions, which is what we expect on any issue., thanks for taking part.As Reported by many friends from differing parts of the globe, the Sun Has been "off track" for at least 2 years..I'd like to offer these few lines ...
From around the globe, folk agree that the Sun Is Not doing it's usual thing, reports going back two years tell us this ... anyone looking for a change in tidal patterns would have to look back in time to find any change, when the Earth must have tilted.There was a suspected "Tilt" of 3 degrees or so following the Tsunami of 2004.Images of our Moon at this time show without doubt that: it has rotated slightly ! Why?... Has something smashed into it ??? our friend from Hawaii https://www.youtube.com/mrgalleria observes a strange secondary glow about the Moon, which could be "Ejecta" from the bombing a while back?.. as well as capturing Similar images to mine !
As the Sun is out of it's trajectory, this indicates that the Earth has Tilted slightly.
The Moon does not spin & certainly not on an north east to south west axis ! Though it rotates once in every revolution around the Earth, Thus, We Always see the same face, well we used to that is.!
The position of the Sun & Moon combine to create our ocean's tidal patterns
If the distance between the Sun, Moon & Earth remains the same a good guess would be that tides would have changed slightly allowing for Earth's slight Tilting. Then settling.
Tidal observations show that: In 2008 all around the globe there Were "Unusual & Unexplained Tidal Changes" many low & high tides in a short space of time on the same day !!.
Does anyone KNOW the date the Earth Tilted ?... Without a doubt, it was more than 2 years ago !
The Earth orbits the Sun in an elliptical orbit being closest to it on 3rd January 2011 in this cycle.I could not find one image on the internet that shows the Same image as captured here in This video.
Return to Earth Changes
Return to The Moon
