# Illuminati - 2a

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/newage_illuminati/illuminati_03.htm

Chapter 2
(part one)
1. The Origin of the Mysteries.2. Bible Knowledge To Test a True Prophet.3. A Brief Study About the Cabala, the Jewish Book of Magic.4. Origin of the Rosicrucians.5. What Is Illuminism?6. Who the Great God Hermes Actually Was.7. Hermes and Nimrod, Founders of Freemasonry.8. More on the King God-Man Ninus, Who Was Nimrod.9. Albert Pike, Highest Authority of Freemasonry, Was Not a Confederate Hero General As Believed and Taught Among Masons, but Was a Washout.
To trace the origin and purposes of Secret Societies, we need to go back again to the book of the beginnings (Genesis) to Adam and Eve's fall. The book of Genesis showed us how Satan caused a serpent to deceive Eve, then later managed to get the very instrument used to deceive to be worshipped and adored. Now in this chapter we will study the bait Satan used to actually induce the first humans to commit their deadly mistake, and how Lucifer has used this same bait to deceive others. What did the Father of Lies say unto Eve? "For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil." Genesis 3:5. Here is the Truth about how multitudes are swept into the high ranks of Witchcraft to be used by Satan to deceive others. It was by creating a desire to obtain forbidden knowledge that Adam and Eve were swept from the protection of God, and lost eternal life, not only for them but also their offspring. Satan implanted in Adam and Eve a desire to be like gods, knowing good and evil. This covetousness produced self-exaltation in the minds of the earth's first couple, and it is this very thing that led to Lucifer's own fall in Heaven. Man, from the time of Adam and Eve, has ever strived to progress forward into the knowledge of the secret things of the Universe. As with Adam and Eve, Lucifer tries to kindle a desire to explore what God has not made known to us. The Bible reveals to man there are secrets of the Universe the Lord does not want to reveal to man. It is not because God is selfish, as the serpent implied, but because of the evil heart in man - he can't be trusted with them. Look at the condition that man has created for himself in the world today. He is constantly in fear, world wide, because of his evil inventions that could destroy the world. He is plagued day by day with the threat of war, crime, and national ruin within his own country. It was Christ who created the Universe and all that is in them. John 1:1-3, 14; Ephesians 3:9; Hebrews 1:1,2. Jesus is the owner, and it's His right to judge what knowledge man can or cannot be trusted with. Saith the Lord: "The secret things belong unto the Lord our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law." Deuteronomy 29:29. How were these secrets about the Earth's history revealed? Saith the Lord: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secret unto His servants the prophets." Amos 3:7. For those things that were to be revealed to us, God chose people that he knew he could trust and would faithfully carry out His prescriptions. These people were called Prophets. They were to write down and record what was revealed to them by Visions and Dreams. Saith the Lord: "And he said, hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a VISION and will speak unto him in a dream." Numbers 12:6. However, as there is a Mystery of Godliness (1.Timothy 3:16) so is there a Mystery of Iniquity (2.Thessalonians 2:7). And, as the Lord has His Prophets, so has the Devil. "For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works." 2.Corinthians 11:13-15. Now, one of the clear ways to test a prophet is found in Isaiah 8:20: "To the Law and to the Testimony if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is NO LIGHT IN THEM." If a man or woman claims to receive a vision or a dream from the Lord, but contradict the teaching in the Law (Torah) which means the first five books of the Bible (Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy), or contradicts the teachings found in the Testimony (the rest of the books of the Bible), it is because the Lord has not sent them. Another way the Lord has given His people to detect a true or false prophet is found in Deuteronomy 13:1-5: "If there arise among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, And the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods, which thou hast not known, and let us serve them; thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams: for the Lord your God proveth you, to know whether ye love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Ye shall walk after the Lord your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave unto him. And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, because he hath spoken to turn you away from the Lord your God which brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, to thrust thee out of the way which the Lord thy God commanded thee to to walk in. So shalt thou put the evil away from the midst of thee. " As stated clearly above, the Lord said there are some people who can predict something to happen (give a sign), or can work wonders, but at the same time could be trying to lead us into the worship of one of these religions of Satan's we have been examining. Can we not today, in our time, observe such things? Here is another way the Lord gives His people knowledge and understanding to see who is being led by the Holy Spirit, or being used by the Devil. "I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets. And by a prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved." Hosea 12:10, 13. A true prophet's ministry will tend to preserve the people. When a man or woman claims to receive a message from the Lord about something to happen, but it doesn't, the Bible warns: "But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die. And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the Lord hath not spoken? When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him." Deuteronomy 18:20-22. A genuine prophet of God is distinguished from a false prophet according to Scripture by his life, Doctrines, Predictions, and who he or she worships. If a prophet predicts certain events to happen and only some of the events come to pass, it is because he is not receiving messages from the Lord. A genuine prophet of God, according to Scripture, is never wrong in predicting future events, because the messages he is receiving are from the One who knows the end of things from the beginning. A prophet who foretold something to the Lord's people in ancient times, but that prediction did not come to pass, was to be killed for deceiving the people. Now here is another important note from the Scriptures to remember in testing prophets: "There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through fire or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits (spirit guides), or a wizard, or a necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord: and because of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive them out from thee." Deuteronomy 18:10-12. The God of the Bible says He communicates to His Prophets through VISIONS AND DREAMS. He does not reveal messages through Astrologers, Palm Readers, or through cards, or by crystal ball visions. This is prophecy by divination. He does not reveal messages through a magician, sorcerer, or psychic. The Lord does not reveal messages through a hypnotist, called a charmer in Scripture. The Lord does not relay messages through spirit guides which the psychics, mediums and witches claim to be ancient sages or wise men. "The dead know not any thing." Ecclesiastes 9:5. The Lord does not communicate through wizards (male witches), or necromancers, "For all that do these things are an ABOMINATION UNTO THE LORD." Deuteronomy 18:12. As we tried to show you in the last chapter, Astrology is the basic foundation of Witchcraft. In Isaiah, the Bible foretells what will happen to Astrologers and people who trust in them. Unlike Astrology, the Bible predictions have never failed: "Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels, Let now the Astrologers, the Stargazers, the monthly Prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee, behold, they shall be as stubble: the fire shall burn them: they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: there shall not be a coal to warm at nor fire to sit before it." Isaiah 47:13,14. "Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else, I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. " Isaiah 46:9. Our Lord, from ancient times, has revealed the mysteries of the Godhead and what he desires us to know about the Universe, and its future, through His Holy Prophets. However, instead of believing these words: "Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper," 2.Chronicles 20:20, Satan has led man away from the Gospel by keeping him interested in the secrets of the Universe. While abandoning the most ancient book we have about the world's history the Bible, men are led to think there is Truth beyond Bible Truth and have invented false sciences which totally contradict the Scriptures. The way out speculations and pure guess work used to support their findings leads them to eventually lose hold on what little faith they had in God, to even reject that there is a God. When the Jews were deceived into worshipping the cosmic gods of nature and were sent into captivity by the Lord to Babylon as a punishment for their idolatry, certain Jewish priests, while in Babylon, studied deep into the ancient Babylonian mysteries (Witchcraft). These priests produced what became a philosophy called the Cabala, Cabbala, or Qabbalah (some of the English spellings of a Hebrew word whose more correct transliteration is Kabbalah), whose meaning is "Receiving," or "that which is received." The Cabala's central doctrine, say the Cabalists, deals with the unfolding of the hidden and unknowable God into the fullness of the manifest God, known by his works [1]. In other words, they try to explain that which is hidden that the Lord has not revealed. The scientific name for this science is Metaphysics. The word Cabala actually derived from the Hebrew verb, kabel which means to receive and implies that the Cabala was received, in the form of special revelations, by a few of the elect, who were especially chosen for the privilege, because of their saintliness [2]. This Jewish movement didn't catch on among the Jews as a whole until about nine centuries after the resurrection of Christ. It reached its height in Spain when a Cabalist's Bible called the Zohar was published [3]. The Zohar was compiled by Moses de Leon at the end of the 13th century. He incorporated into the Zohar, which means "book of brightness," the doctrines of the infamous Gnostics and Neoplatonists [4] that the soul is immortal and its attachment to the body is unfortunate, but temporary. Cabalists believe in reincarnation and that God supplies all knowledge. They claim that the Scriptures contain important symbols that, properly analyzed, reveal secrets concerning the creation of the Universe. They believed that these secret combinations of words and symbols could be manipulated to achieve magical results [5]. Unlike ancient Witchcraft, the Cabalists believe that the Godhead consists of 10 emanations of the one God. However, these Jewish Cabalists do not believe that these emanations are gods, as paganism teaches, but a complex organism consisting of ten emanations, potencies, or focal points, called the Sefiroth. These ten aspects, stages, or manifestations of the Living Deity, the World of Emanation, or World of the Sefiroth, is not the Universe (stars), say Cabalists, but the Godhead in its existent aspect [6]. It is mind boggling to try to understand any of this nonsense; however we ask the reader to keep patience, for the reader must have a little knowledge what the Cabala is so he can understand the philosophies behind the Secret Societies. It is from the Cabala that modern Witchcraft and the Secret Societies say they draw many of their crafts. Like Witchcraft, the Cabala teaches that man is a microcosm (miniature universe), and has both male and female elements in the Godhead. The female element of the Godhead is found in one of the ten emanations (Sefiroth). The Shekhinah, they say, is the female element because it is the passive aspect to the Deity, the manifestation of the divine power which vitalizes all creation [7]. Cabalists say man has spiritual intercourse with God through the Shekhinah. From Hasidic Prayer, by Louis Jacobs, page 61, we quote the following: "But of Moses of the Zohar does say that he had intercourse with the SHEKHINAH! Tishby has, however, shown that there are, in fact, many passages in the Zohar in which erotic symbolism is used for man's relationship with God and not only with regard to Moses." Jacobs goes on to say: "For instance, the Zohar states that when a man cannot be with his wife, for example, when he is away from home, or when he is studying the Torah, or when she has her periods, then the Shekhinah is with him so that he can be male and female." Another sacrilegious claim of the Cabala is also found in their philosophy about the 10 emanations (Sefiroth). Cabalists claim that the 10 Sefiroth is the Tree of Life from which the Universe emanated or came into existence, and that man can unite himself with, or become, the One 'by rising through the spheres,' spiritually climbing the ladder of the Sefiroth to reach God [8]. In magic, the adept (an expert) must experience and master all 10 Sefiroth in order to achieve supreme perfection and power, for the Tree of the Sefiroth is believed to be a cosmic diagram, the basic pattern which shows how the Universe is arranged and how its phenomena are connected. And since man is a miniature replica of the Universe (microcosm) and of God, man is capable of spiritually expanding himself to become God [9]. Is not this blasphemous language nothing but an echo from Eden? "YE SHALL BE AS GODS," Genesis 3:5. The Cabala teaches that man can reach the magnitude of the Omnipotent God. Who would dare make such a statement? As we saw earlier, his words are recorded in Isaiah 14:12-15. Like Roman Catholic Church doctrines, there are enormous amounts of blasphemous claims against the God of Heaven that can be found in their literature. However, space does not allow us to venture too far into this diabolical scheme to deceive. But to summarise what basically the Cabala is, it can be summed up in one word, MAGIC, and its roots are found in Babylon. Cabalistic magic is mainly arranging numbers and combining Hebrew letters and their numerical values into magical squares and anagrams [10]. The Cabalists claimed Moses used magic to bring the plagues against the Egyptians. However, it wasn't Moses who caused the plagues to fall upon the Egyptians, it was God Himself. There will be more unveiling of the Cabala and how multitudes have been deceived by it as we study into the doctrines and purposes of the Secret Societies. However, before we study the origin and purposes of the Secret Societies, we need to examine an ancient mystical name given to schools or groups that taught Babylonian mysticism. They were known for centuries as the Illuminati. And they called Babylonian mysticism ILLUMINISM. The Encyclopedia Americana, p. 698, says The Illuminati is a name taken, or given, to various groups of individuals existing during the past 2,000 years, who believed in and taught a doctrine of illumination or inner light (Illuminism) [11]. However, this mystical name derived from its original source at a much earlier time. The Western equivalent to this Eastern mysticism is Hermeticism and Gnosticism, which we will also examine as we go on. The Illuminati taught living a life of purity and service would open their so-called inner senses so that they would obtain spiritual sight or Clairvoyance, known as the Third Eye, become Seers, and be able to converse with angels and with dead saints [12]. The individual who became spiritually or intellectually enlightened in the ancient Babylonian Mysteries was initiated into the mysteries when qualified, and called an Illuminated [13]. In France, under the name of Illumines, another Witchcraft school appeared in Picardy in 1623, but only continued a short time because of the repressive measures taken by the Papacy. However, another sect of Illumines appeared in the south of France about 1722 AD and continued until 1794. They traced their origin to the Gnostics [16]. Here is an interesting note. It is from a sect of the Illuminati who existed in the 15th century that the Rosicrucians, an international Secret Society, claim their modern fraternal order originated. They also continue to claim that it actually derived out of the Egyptian mysteries before that time. Rosicrucism is a mixture of both Christianity and Witchcraft. The number 13 in Witchcraft plays a very important part in the practice of Witchcraft as we saw earlier. And so it does in this fraternal Order of the Rosicrucians. Here from one of their own publications, "The Rosicrucian Cosmo - Conception," by Max Heindel, we read the following: "The Order is not merely a secret society; it is one of THE MYSTERY SCHOOLS, and the Brothers are Hierophants of the lesser Mysteries, Custodians of the Sacred Teachings and spiritual power more potent in the life of the Western World than any of the visible Governments, though they may not interfere with humanity so as to deprive them of their free will."Heindel goes on to say, "Like all other Mystery Orders the Order of Rosicrucians IS FORMED ON COSMIC LINES: If we take balls of even size and try how many it will take to cover one and hide it from view, we shall find it will require 12 to conceal a thirteenth ball. The ultimate division of physical matter, the true atom, found in interplanetary space, is thus grouped in twelve around one. The twelve signs of the Zodiac enveloping our Solar System, the twelve semitones of the musical scale comprising the octave, the twelve Apostles who clustered around Christ, etc., are other examples of this grouping of 12 and 1. The Rosicrucian Order is therefore also composed of 12 Brothers and a 13th." We will come back to the Rosicrucians in a moment, but let's go on and take another look at some other Mystic Schools who adopted this name "Illuminati." There were other little sects of Illuminism recorded in history like the Illuminati of Avignon and the Illuminati of Stockholm; but none of them became a threat to freedom, liberty of conscience, and Christianity like the Illuminati of Bavaria. This Secret Order was founded May 1, 1776, by one Adam Weishaupt, a professor of Canon Law at Ingolstadt, Germany, and an ex-Jesuit priest." Weishaupt, and his Order of Illuminati, we shall study in the next chapter. Now, the Rosicrucians, who claim also to be illuminated or Enlightened, say that Thutmose III of Egypt was the founder of their Secret Order. He erected two obelisks bearing a record of his achievements. One of these obelisks is now located in Central Park in New York [18]. According to the Rosicrucians, after Thutmose III died, his son Amenhotep took up his father's work in their Brotherhood about the end of September 1448 BC. He was succeeded by his son Thutmose IV, who ruled from 1420 to 1411 BC. Then came Amenhotep IV, with whose history all the Rosicrucians are greatly concerned. He was the Great Master in the family of the founders, and the one to whom they owe their philosophies and writings used so universally in all their Lodge work throughout the world. He was born in the Royal Palace at Thebes, according to the Rosicrucians, in 1378 BC [19]. To qualify to be initiated into the mysteries, the new initiate had to want to become an expert (adept) in Astrology, Magic, Sorcery, Fortune-telling, Necromancy, etc., which, by the way, is an abomination unto our Lord (Deuteronomy 18:10-12). On this side of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, there were various other schools of these mystics besides the ones we already stated, who were given, or assumed, this name Illuminati, on the grounds of having superior knowledge of God, and of divine things which they claimed to be able to perform. The Rosicrucians and the Illuminati's first cousins were the infamous Gnostics, from whom Simon Magus borrowed his mysteries and mixed them with Christianity. Another group of Gnostics found in the book of Revelation were called the Nicolaitanes (Revelation 2:15), who were followers of one Nicolas, a deacon in the time of Paul, who fell into licentious doctrines and practices [20]. Another such school for higher learning of Witchcraft was found in Spain around 1520 AD, and was called in the native language Los Alumbrados. It continued for about a century, then disappeared as victim of the Spanish Inquisition. Ignatius Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits), almost became a victim of the Spanish Inquisition himself when the Roman Catholic Church got wind of his connection with the Alumbrados. But he was acquitted before the Inquisition Court with an admonition [21]. However, there are some who hold today that the Illuminati is a front for the Roman Catholic Church to unite the world under her banner again. And, it was this same Ignatius Loyola who founded the Illuminati [22]. But, we will learn from history that it was not Ignatius Loyola who founded the Order of the Illuminati in Germany which has continued since 1776 AD. It was Adam Weishaupt, an ex-Jesuit. Now, coming back to the Rosicrucians who also used the name Illuminati for their Order: The reason the Rosicrucians look back to the reign of Amenhotep IV was because he was the last of the Great Pharaohs of Egypt and Hermes Trimegistus the Prophet, was born during his reign. There is much confusion in ancient and modern learned circles about who Hermes actually was. Scholars of mythology said he was just a myth, as was Mercury, his equivalent to the Romans. His Egyptian equivalent, say some scholars, was the Egyptian god "Thoth." The god Thoth or Hermes, was the moon god, who was the god of time and of its divisions. He was the measurer and the god of measurements. He was also the conducter of the dead, and god of human Intelligence, to whom are attributed all the productions of human Art. To the pagan Egyptians, all the literature of Egypt is attributed to Hermes. All the writings that relate to the different sciences, mathematics, astronomy, medicine, and music of the Egyptians were called by the Greeks "The Hermetic Books." In Greek mythology, Hermes was known as the son of Zeus and Maia. He was the god who invented dice, music, geometry, the interpretation of dreams, measures and weights, the arts, letters, etc. He was also regarded as the patron of public treaties, as the guardian of roads and writing. Thoth to the Egyptians was considered a great king, a teacher of mankind, who had left books of magic and mystery behind him. Numerous books of such a sort once existed in Egypt. Clement of Alexandria claimed he knew of 42 so-called Hermetic fragments which could be found in the works of Stobaeus, Cyrillus, Suides and Lactantus. The Hermetic Books fall into two groups. The first deals with Astrology, Alchemy, etc.; while the others are dialogues describing the soul's regeneration in terms like the Cabala. This is the blasphemous doctrine that man can reach perfection through his own efforts by journeying through the higher spheres of knowledge, then after death, become God. Tradition says the Egyptian mysteries were a key to a complete knowledge of the Universe and man. And this so-called knowledge was preserved in these Hermetic Books which were believed for centuries to be written by Hermes Trismegistus. These books were universally accepted among the doctors of occultism as authentic books of Hermes until the early 17th century, when they were proven to be a fraud. They had actually been written as late as the second and third centuries AD, by a succession of anonymous Greeks living in Egypt. However, even though these Hermetic Books were not directly from Hermes, as the occultists said, there are still some interesting facts to learn about who Hermes was, this legendary god of wisdom. To start, we need to take a deeper look at the other gods of the Orient who were the Eastern equivalent to the Western god Hermes. They were known in history as Nebo (Nabu) and Eel. Alexander Hislop, who spent years tracing down ancient gods to Babylonian origin, has some very interesting facts compiled from the ancient past in his book The Two Babylons. In this book Hislop states the following: "If Ninus was Nimrod, who was the historical Eel? He must have been Cush; for Cush beget Nimrod, Gen. 10:8, and Cush is generally represented as having been a ringleader in the great apostacy. But again, Cush, as the son of Ham was Hermes or Mercury; for Hermes is just an Egyptian synonym for the "son of Ham." Now, Hermes was the great original prophet of idolatry; for he was recognized by the pagans as the author of their religious rites, and the interpreter of the gods." (The Two Babylons, Hislop, pp. 25, 26.) To the occultist, tradition says the Egyptian Mysteries were a key to a complete knowledge of the Universe and of man. But the truth is, Egypt received its knowledge of the ancient Mysteries from Babylonia. In the traditions of the ancient writers, Ninus is said to be the son of Eel who Gesenius the ancient scribe identifies as Nebo, the Babylonian prophetic god. And Hyginus, another ancient scribe, shows that Nebo was Mercury. And, Hyginus tells how a similar legend was written about the confusion of tongues as stated in the Bible. Hyginus is quoted by Hislop: "For many ages men lived under the government of Jove (evidently not the Roman Jupiter, but Jehovah of the Hebrews), without cities and without laws, and all speaking one language. But, after that Mercury interpreted the speeches of men (whence an interpreter is called Hermeneutes), the same individual distributed the nations, then discord began." (The Two Babylons, Hislop, p. 26.) Now the pagans often named places, cities, and towns after their chief gods. A mount called Nebo east of Jordan over against Jericho, in Moab, part of the Abarim range, with a top called Pisgah, is where our Lord told Moses to view the land which he couldn't enter because of his transgression, Deuteronomy 32:49. The word "Nebo" means height [23]. The word "Baal" means Lord, but the name "Eel" means "The Confounder" [24]. The ancients often got the two names Baal and Eel mixed up as do modern scholars today. The Scriptures themselves show that Baal and Eel were two distinct gods with TWO distinct names. In Jeremiah 50:2; 51:44 we read: "Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard; publish and conceal not; say, Babylon is taken, Eel is confounded, Merodach is broken in pieces, her idols are confounded, her images are broken in pieces." "And I will punish Eel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he hath swallowed up: and the nations shall not flow together any more unto him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall." Now, Eel the Confounder or, in other words, the god of confusion, was himself to be confounded by the destruction of Babylon, the origin of all pagan religions. The name Babylon itself means "Confusion" [25]. Today, the city of Babylon is just as it was predicted to be, and now is a symbol of religious confusion throughout the world which will, in these last closing days, unite under one banner. To the Romans the god Eel, who actually was Nimrod's father Cush, was worshipped as Janus, the two faced god, the god of gods. Hislop quotes Ovid, another ancient scribe who wrote of a hymn dedicated to Janus. "From whom all the other gods had their origin is made to say of himself: 'the ancients... called me Chaos.'" This god Chaos' name is used in our language today to mean confusion. The symbol of this god of confusion was a club, and Hislop goes on to say the following: "..that symbol is a club; and the name of a 'club in Chaldee comes from the very word which signifies 'to break in pieces, or scatter abroad.' He who caused the confusion of tongues was he who 'broke' the previously united earth, Genesis 11:1, in pieces and scattered the fragments abroad. How significant then as a symbol, is the club, as commemorating the work of Cush as Eel, the Confounder? That significance will be all the more apparent when the reader turns to the Hebrew of Genesis 11:9, and finds that the very word from which a club derives its name is that which is employed when it is said, that in consequence of the confusion of tongues, the children of men were scattered abroad on the face of all the earth. The name of Cush is also 'Khus' for 'sh' frequently passes in Chaldee into s; and Khus, in pronunciation, legitimately becomes Khawos, or, without the digamma, Khaos." (The Two Babylons, Hislop, p. 27.) In Isaiah 46:1, it appears that Nebo and Eel are synonymous. "Eel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth." And the symbol of this god (the club) is called the hammer in Scripture. "How is the HAMMER of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! How is Babylon become a desolation among the nations." Jeremiah 50:23. Hence, it was Eel and Baal, or Cush and Nimrod, who caused the inhabitants of the earth to be scattered all over the earth by introducing Astrology, Magic, Necromancy, etc., building an antichrist society that would change "the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man and to birds and fourfooted beasts and creeping things. Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves, Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen." Romans 1:23, 24. Now look at the name "Hermes," from whom these Secret Societies and occult fraternities say they draw their philosophies. The word Her, says Hislop, in Chaldee is synonymous with Ham, or Khem [26] the burnt one. This name formed a foundation for covertly identifying Ham with the Sun, and so deifying the Patriarch after whose name the land of Egypt was called [27]. The Scriptures themselves state that Egypt was founded by Ham. "Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the Land of Ham." Psalms 105:23, 27, Hislop goes on to say: "Her is the name of Horus, who is identified with the Sun (Bunsen, Vol. I, p. 507), which shows the real etymology of the name to be from the verb to which I have traced it. Then, secondly, 'Mes' is from Mesheh for, without the last radical, which is omissible (see Parkhurst, Sub Voce, p. 416], Mesh, 'to draw forth.' " The Two Babylons, Hislop, Loizeaux Brothers, p. 25. What all this means is "Mes" was used by the ancient Egyptians to show the genealogy of the name applied. This will explain the Egyptian names of Kings of Egypt such as Rameses, which means "The Son of Ra," who was the Egyptian Sun-god, whose incarnation was "Osiris." Hence, "Hermes" or "Her-Mes" means "The Son of Her," or Ham, who was Cush [28]. "And the sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan." Genesis 10:6. Now it was really Cush who was worshipped as Hermes, Eel, Nebo, Mercury, etc., that was generally represented by the ancients as their god who was the author of Astrology, Magic, Spiritualism, etc., on this side of the flood. Here are some more astonishing facts about modern Secret Societies that even most of their own members are not aware of. Like the Rosicrucians, the Freemasons trace their origins to the Hermetic writings. And, ironically enough, the Freemasons admit that it was Nimrod along with Hermes (Cush), who founded their order. The following will be taken from an authorized publication of Freemasonry called An Encyclopedia of Freemasonry and Its Kindred Sciences, by Albert G. Mackey 33", p. 322: "HERMES" * IN ALL THE OLD MANUSCRIPTS & RECORDS WHICH CONTAIN THE LEGEND OF THE CRAFT, MENTIONIS MADE OF HERMES AS ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF MASONRY." Mackey goes on to say: "He found one of the two pillars of stone, and found the science written therein, and he taught it to other men. There are two persons of the name of Hermes mentioned in sacred history. The first is the divine Hermes called by the Romans Mercury. Among the Egyptians he was known as Thoth. Diodorus Siculus describes him as the secretary of Osiris; he is commonly supposed to have been the son of Mizaim, and Cumberland says that he was the same as Osiris. There is, however, much confusion among the mythologists concerning his attributes. "The second was Hermes Trismegistus or Thrice Great, who was a celebrated Egyptian legislater, priest, and philosopher, who lived in the reign of Ninus, about the year 2670 (BC). He is said to have written thirty six books on theology and philosophy, and six upon medicine, all of which are lost. There are many traditions of him; one of which, related by Eusebius, is that he introduced hieroglyphics into Egypt. This Hermes Trimegistur, although the reality of his existence is doubtful, was claimed by the alchemists as the founder of their art, whence it is called the Hermetic science, AND WHENCE WE GET IN MASONRY, HERMETIC RITES AND HERMETIC DEGREES." Now in the same volumes of An Encyclopedia of Freemasonry and its Kindred Sciences, by Albert G. Mackey, Vol. 2, p. 518 we read who this other founder of Freemasonry was: "NIMROD." THE LEGEND OF THE CRAFT IN THE OLD CONSTITUTIONS REFER TO NIMROD AS ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF MASONRY." It was indeed NIMROD who was first to teach the arts of masonry! Now here lies a key to understanding the mysterious rituals of Freemasonry. Just as the women who worshipped Thammuz were led to weep for the god because in the myth all the images wept for him, so does the Freemason mimic the myths of the Sun-gods during their Hermetic Rituals. Just as the Roman Catholic is taught to mimic the death of Jesus Christ during Holy Week, so does Freemasonry imitate most of the myths of Baal worship. Here from their own publications we will learn the real purposes and goals of the leaders of Freemasonry. In the Booklet, "The Masonic Report," published by C.F. McQuaig, a former 32nd Degree Mason, with an Introduction from James D. Shaw, a former 33rd Degree Mason and past Master of all Scottish Rite Bodies, we have now one of the complete studies into the Secret behind Freemasonry. These former high ranking Freemasons now EXPOSE Freemasonry for what it actually is, in hope that deceived Masons will see who is really the hidden teacher of their mysteries, and choose Jesus Christ as their Lord and Saviour, and will openly withdraw from it. Space won't allow us to examine the entire booklet; however, we will examine Masonic books the booklet quotes, and also other Masonic books that we have ourselves. After the reader has examined these things from their own literature, the reader will learn that Freemasonry is nothing less than WITCHCRAFT! All this will be completely exposed in the part 2 of this chapter.
[1] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.3, Cavendish, p.382 [2] Collier's Encyclopedia, Vol.5, 1977, p.85 [3] Ibid. p.84 [4] Ibid. p.84 [5] Student's Encyclopedia, Vol.3, p.579 [6] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.3, Cavendish, p.384 [7] Ibid. p.384 [8] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.3, Cavendish, p.387 [9] Ibid. p.387 [10] Ibid. p.387 [11] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.20, Americana Corp. 1947, p.698 [12] Ibid. p.698 [13] Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol.14, 1910, p.320 [14] omitted[15] omitted[16] Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol.14, 1910, p.320 [17] Encyclopedia of Occultism and Paraspycology, Vol.1, 1978, p.460 [18] Rosicrucian Questions & Answers with Complete History, Lewis, p.28 [19] Ibid. p.28,29 [20] Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol.9, p.702 [21] The Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol.14, 1910, p.320 [22] The Godfathers, Chick Publications, 1982, p.9-11 [23] Young's Analytical Concordance to the Bible, p.689 [24] The Two Babylons, Hislop, p.26 [25] Ibid. p.25,26[26] Ibid. p.25[27] Ibid. p.25[28] Ibid. p.26
[illuminati - 2b] [illuminati - 1b] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
