# Illuminati - 4a

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/newage_illuminati/illuminati_06.htm

Chapter 4
(part one)
1. The Birth of Communism2. The History Behind The League of the Just (a front for the Illuminati)3. Karl Marx writes the Communist Manifesto for The League of the Just4. Nicholai Lenin becomes a member of the League of the Just, who later changed their name to "The League of the Communists"5. Jacobin Clubs, The League of the Just, The League of the Communists and Bolshevism were all Illuminati fronts.6. The plan by the modern 20th Century Illuminists to get control of the World's Nuclear Weapons through the United Nations.
In 1785, the Bavarian Government exposed Adam Weishaupt's plan to destroy Christianity and control governments. However, this was not the end of the Illuminati, as most historians have written. Weishaupt's plans were only interrupted and dealt with as a dangerous revolutionary force in Germany. The other nations that the Illuminati were operating in did not heed the warning from the Bavarian Government. Just a couple of years later, the plan to destroy Christianity and World Governments was first seen in the French Revolution. This same revolutionary force reappeared again in Germany, called "The League of the Just" [1], with branches in London, Brussels, Paris, and Switzerland. Napoleon, when he came into power, would not tolerate the activities of the Jacobin Clubs with their independent opposition, so he completely suppressed it [2]. However, the Illuminati just operated under other names. It was under the name of "The League of the Just" that "Karl Marx" became a member. He was hired to update the writings of Adam Weishaupt, written seventy years earlier. Weishaupt died in 1830, but his revolutionary plans were carried on by a list of his successors. In 1842 Karl Marx began to write revolutionary propaganda for the League of the Just, hoping to cause a spirit of unrest. In 1844, in collaboration with Friedrich Engels, and under the supervision of The League of the Just, Marx began to write the infamous "Manifest der Kommunistichen Partei," commonly known today as the "The Communist Manifesto," which appeared at the beginning of 1848 [3]. Later, the Illuminati operating under the name of The League of the Just, changed their name to "The League of Communists" [4]. The Communists celebrate May 1st as the birth of their revolutionary movement because it was the birthday of the Illuminati, founded by Adam Weishaupt. And, it is not by chance that all Communists use the "Pentagram" (five pointed star) as one of their insigia. And, it is not by chance that the Communists use the term RED to describe their revolutionary movement. The Rothschild international banking family, who for some 200 years had a great influence on the economic and the political history of Europe, was founded by Mayer Amschel Rothschild Feb. 23, 1744 in Frankfurt. He had five sons and the family name derived from the RED SHIELD on Mayer's ancestor's house. It was Adam Weishaupt and the House of Rothschild who started this partly religious and partly political movement [5] foretold in prophecy as the "Scarlet Coloured Beast" that shall ascend out of the bottomless pit (Spiritualism). Revelation 17:3, 8. In the 1890's this world revolutionary movement added to its membership Vladimar Ilyich Ulyanov, who changed his name to Nicholai Lenin. As the illuminati terrorist group in France (Jacobin Clubs) caused the fall of the government of Louis XVI, so did their later aristocractic brethren operating under the name of Bolshevism [6] cause the overthrow of the Tsar in Russia and cause the Russian Revolution in 1917 [7]. It will be shown later that these Communists were financed by both European and American International Bankers. The ideas Lenin developed were directly from the Karl Marx Communist Manifesto, and the ideas founded in the Communist Manifesto were directly from the writings of Dr Adam Weishaupt, who took his orders from the House of Rothschild. Gary Allan in his multimillion best seller None Dare Call It Conspiracy, states the following about Marx's Communist Manifesto: "If you study Marx Communist Manifesto you will find that in essence Marx said the proletarian revolution would establish the Socialist dictatorship of the proletariat. To achieve the Socialist dictatorship of the proletariat, three things would have to be accomplished. 1. The elimination of all right to private property. 2. The dissolution of the family unit: and 3. Destruction of what Marx referred to as the 'opiate of the people,' 'Religion.' " Allan goes on to say, "Karl Marx was hired by a mysterious group who called themselves 'The League of the Just Men' to write the Communist Manifesto as demagogic boob-bait to appeal to the mob. In actualfact the Communist Manifesto was in circulation for many years before Marx' name was widely enough recognized to establish his authorship for this revolutionary handbook. All Karl Marx really did was update and codify the very same revolutionary plans and principles set down seventy years earlier by Adam Weishaupt, the founder of the Order of the Illuminati in Bavaria. And, it is widely acknowledged by serious scholars of this subject that the League of the Just Men was simply an extension of the Illuminati which was forced to go underground after it was exposed by a raid in 1786 conducted by the Bavarian authorities." None Dare Call It Conspiracy, Allan, Concord Press, 1971, p. 25. Even though Allan dates the exposure of the illuminati at another year than what we read from a Masonic book, nevertheless, it does not alter the fact that these things are historically true. Marx also called for the abolition of Capitalism, which he believed was a struggle between the bourgeoisie (the middle class) and the proletariat (the workers) [8]. Marxism tells the poor that if they would establish a dictatorship of the proletariat, which would set up a classless Communist society, everyone would live in peace, prosperity, and freedom. There would be no more need for governments, police, or armies, and all these would gradually wither away [9]. Marx said that the ruling class would never willingly give up its power, and that struggle and violence were therefore inevitable [10]. This would naturally sound terrific to some poor struggling blacks, or to the starving in the Latin American countries. But what the Communist leaders don't tell the people is that the leaders are exempt from sharing equally the material wealth of their nation. How many Russian leaders do you see among the poverty stricken? The real motive behind Communism is not to distribute the wealth of the world equally, but the Communist Party is just a front for the super-rich as an instrument for gaining and using power. IT IS NOT THE COMMUNISTS THAT RUN COMMUNISM. There is yet another controling power behind communism. Communism and socialism are just arms of a more devilish conspiracy working behind the public eye, that is not being run from Moscow or Peking, but from New York, Paris and London. These are very serious and dangerous times. The average gullible American has absolutely no thought what is about to come upon him. Awake! Awake! This is a very serious and dangerous anti-Christian movement that has been working politically and socially since the French Revolution to destroy the sovereighty of this Nation and all nations around the world. This beast from the bottomless pit (Spiritualism) spread its poison first in Europe during the French Revolution, and from there to Russia. George Washington, even though he was a deceived Freemason, was nevertheless a loyal American, and was very aware of this International Revolutionary force to destroy all governments and religions in his own time. Des Griffin in his book Fourth Reich of the Rich, p. 57 explains how the Illuminati Conspiracy crept into America even when the 13 original Colonies were united: "However, before the Colonies were united, the Constitution adopted, and our Republic established, fifteen Lodges of the Order of the IIluminati were formed in the thirteen Colonies. The Columbia Lodge of the Order of the IIluminati was established in New York City in 1785: members included Governor DeWitt Clinton, and later CLINTON ROOSEVELT (a direct ancestor of FDR), Charles Dana and Horace Greeley. The following year a Lodge was established in Virginia with which was identified THOMAS JEFFERSON. When Weishaupt's diabolical plans were exposed by the Bavarian government, JEFFERSON STRONGLY DEFENDED HIM AS AN 'ENTHUSIASTIC PHILANTHROPIST." "Many strong warnings were issued about the activities of the Illuminati in America. On July 19th, 1798, David Pappen, President of Harvard University, issued a strong warning to the graduating class and lectured them to the influence Illuminism was having on the American scene. President Timothy Dwight of Yale University issued a similar warning. "Also GEORGE WASHINGTON sent a letter to a G.W Snyder in which he stated: 'It is not my intention to doubt that the doctrine of the Illuminati and the principles of Jacobinism had not spread to the United States. On the contrary, no one is more satisfied of this fact than I am. "The idea I meant to convey was that I did believe the Lodges of Freemasonry in this country had as societies, endeavored to propagate the diabolical tenets." Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, Emissary Publications, 1979. Russia is a perfect example today of what the illuminati plans are for the world. There are about 1.1/3 billion persons, or about a third of the world's population, who now live under Communist rule. However, it is estimated that only 10% of the people are actually members of the Communist Party themselves [11]. Look at Russia today and its Communist brethren worldwide. The Communist Party allow no political rivals, and the voters have no real choice among candidates. The truth is that the Communist Party itself is a highly centralized government, and only its top members make important decisions. Most Communist countries are nothing less than open air concentration camps. And, contrary to Marx's predictions, their conflicts, crime and prejudices have not vanished in these Communist countries. There is just as much centralization of the wealth of a nation for the gain of a few, at the expense of the poor and middle class, in Communist countries as there is in non-Communist countries. There can also be seen in Communist countries the same national and racial hatred they were supposed to be free of. Who are really pulling the strings today behind the Communist World Revolutionary movement? Gary Allan's statement in his book, None Dare Call It Conspiracy, could not state it any plainer, on page 35: " 'Communism' is not a movement of the down-trodden masses but is a movement created, manipulated and used by power-seeking billionaires in order to gain control over the world ... first by establishing socialist governments in the various nations and then consolidating them all through a 'Great Merger,' into an ALL POWERFUL WORLD SOCIALIST SUPERSTATE probably under the auspices of the UNITED NATIONS." None Dare Call It Conspiracy, Allan, Concord Press, 1971. It is the International Bankers who are actually pulling the strings that control the affairs of Communism, not the Communists. Russia, China, Cuba, Poland, etc. are taking their orders indirectly from the super-rich International Bankers who control the commerce of this world. Seventy years before Karl Marx came on the scene, Weishaupt told his disciples that in order to achieve this One World Government, his conspirators would have to infiltrate every agency of the governmental affairs of the nations. They first used the Masonic Lodges as we learned earlier, to begin this task. By sitting in the top seats of all governments, the Illuminati agents could eventually guide the nations toward a "Novus Ordo Seclorum," which means in Latin "A New World Order." They would accomplish this by the power of the vote which they would have while occupying positions as legislators. However, before the people of the world would accept the Luciferian Government which Weishaupt, an apostle of Lucifer, hoped to eventually achieve, there would have to be a culture change within the societies of the people first, along with a spirit of unrest and riots in the air. The people of the world would have to be reduced into a godless society. Atheism was just a tool to destroy Christianity in France during the Revolution. Weishaupt and his "Inner Circle" were not ATHEISTS; they believed in a god. However, this god was not Jesus Christ, but Lucifer. Communism is just an anti-Christian, atheistic force to destroy Christianity and all world governments, by modern day Luciferians who actually control world commerce. Saith the Lord: "For all nations have drunk of the wine of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the MERCHANTS OF THE EARTH are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who iudgeth her. And the MERCHANTS OF THE EARTH shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more." Revelation 18:3, 7, 11. For the benefit of any skeptic, or reader who has been brainwashed into believing that this Luciferian (illuminati-Communist-Socialistic) Conspiracy does not exist today, let us look into a warning from Winston Churchill that he wrote February 8, 1920, in the Illustrated Sunday Herald: "From the days of SPARTICUS (Adam Weishaupt) to Karl Marx, to those of Trotsky, Bela-Kuhn, Rose Luxembourg, and Emma Goldman, this world-wide conspiracy has been STEADILY growing. This conspiracy has played A DEFINITELY RECOGNIZABLE ROLE IN THE TRAGEDY OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. It has been the mainspring of EVERY SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENT DURING THE 19TH CENTURY; and now at last, this band of extraordinary personalities from the underworld of the great cities of Europe and America have gripped the Russian people by the hair of their heads, and have become practically the undisputed masters of that enormous empire." Quoted from The Missing Dimension in World Affairs, Goy, p. 92. Revelation 16:13,14 warns about the three-fold union of the Dragon, the Beast and the False Prophet that will unite the whole world whose names are not written in the Lamb's book of Life, to war against Christ and His people. The first power that will go out into the world is symbolized as the Dragon, Revelation 16:13. It is also symbolized as the Beast that Ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit. These TWO symbols both represent Satan and his Luciferian (Illuminati-Communism-Socialistic) Conspiracy. Like the 18th century Illuminists of the French Revolution, the New Age Movement (Spiritualism of Today) is seeking to destroy Christianity by a worldwide social transformation. Among this New Age Movement there are teachers and office workers, famous scientists, government officials and lawmakers, artists and millionaires, taxi drivers and celebrities, leaders in medicine, education, law, and psychology, who are trying to condition the Christian world into accepting this modern version of Nimrod's One World Government. Marilyn Ferguson, the author of The Aquarian Conspiracy who is a member of this Luciferian plot herself, states the following in her book on page 26: "The Aquarian Conspiracy represents the Now What. We have to move into the unknown: The known has failed us too completely. "Taking a broader view of history and a deeper measure of nature, The Aquarian Conspiracy is a different kind of Revolution, with different revolutionaries. It looks to the turnabout IN CONSCIOUSNESS OF A CRITICAL NUMRER OF INDIVIDUALS, ENOUGH TO BRING A RENEWAL OF SOCIETY." The Aquarian Conspiracy, Marilyn Ferguson, J.P. Tarcher, Inc., 1980. As we learned earlier, Communism derived out of an 18th century version of Babylonian Witchcraft (Illuminism), and it insisted on the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions. Francis B. Randall, Ph.D., who has taught at both Amherst College and Columbia University, states the following about Marx in his book, The Communist Manifesto, on page 37: "He (Marx) insisted on the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions with uninhibited abandon ... Let the ruling classes tremble at a communist revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Working men of all countries, unite! Millions have thrilled to this most memorable of all appeals that have come down to us from the Romantic Age." The Communist Manifesto, Marx/Engels, edited by Francis B. Randall, Ph.D., Simon & Schuster, 1964. As we tried to show the reader before, Communism is not a movement to help the downtrodden people of the world. But Communism is actually being run today by Capitalists, the very people who control the wealth of the world that Communism is supposedly fighting against. Very few Americans know that Karl Marx was a correspondent and political analyst for Horace Greeley, who owned the New York Times newspaper. In 1849 both Horace Greeley and Clinton Roosevelt contributed financially to the Communist League in London to assist in the publication of the Communist Manifesto [12]. Other contributors were the English millionaire, Cowell Stepney, and of course Friedrich Engels, who was a wealthy German. And, up until recently, two checks made out to Karl Marx by Nathan Rothschild could be seen on display at the British Museum. Lenin, Trotsky and Stalin were financed by Capitalists from America, England and Germany, to help promote the Bolsheviki Revolution in Russia. What should a follower of Jesus of Nazareth do? Should we unite together and take up arms and defend ourselves? The answer is NO, a thousand times NO. This conflict is not a social, but a spiritual war. "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, AGAINST SPIRITUAL WICKEDNESS IN HIGH PLACES." Ephesians 6:12. It is foretold that Lucifer will condition the ignorant of this world into accepting a total Luciferian Rule through Spiritualism, Catholicism, and Apostate Protestantism. In the name of Peace and Love does this great delusion come. "And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of this truth, that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie: That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness." 2 Thessalonians 2:10-12. The modern Luciferian One World Government plot to enslave the whole world under socialism is attackng the world by using physical force (Communism) and by subliminal warfare coming in the name of the New Age Movement. This is nothing less than a mask for the super-rich who are really the ruling class and those who control the huge secret Society of the Illuminati. The first Russian Marxist group was formed in 1883 in the very year of Marx's death by Lenin, who was a Russian Revolutionary exiled in Switzerland. Between 1900 and 1903 Lenin called his revolutionaries the "Bolsheviki, then later renamed themselves" Communists, after Marx's term in the Communist Manifesto [13]. Lenin announced to the world before the overthrow of the Tsar in Russia the following: "After Russia we will take Eastern Europe, then the masses of Asia, then we will encircle the United States which will be the last bastion of capitalism. We will not have to attack. It will fall like an overripe fruit into our hands" [14]. Since that statement Russia, China, Mongolia, Tibet, Afghanistan, Algeria, Ethiopia, Libya, North Korea, North and South Vietnam, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary, East Germany, Romania, Yugoslavia, Albania, Cuba, Chile, etc, are under Communist rule; and now Central America and Mexico are threatened with Communist guerrillas. However, the Communist plan to overthrow the last bastion of capitalism (The United States) is to be attacked politically, socially and economically, as Lenin planned. Robert L. Preston, in his book Wake Up America, states the following: "When Nikita Khrushchev visited the United States, he boasted that the Communists would bury us and that our grandchildren would live under Communist rule. He even outlined the exact manner in which they would accomplish it: "You Americans are so gullible. No, you won't accept Communism outright, but we'll keep feeding you small doses of Socialism until you'll finally wake up and find you already have Communism. We won't have to fight you. We'll so weaken your economy until you'll fall like overripe fruit into our hands." "As outlined by Khrushchev and Lenin, there is no intention for the Communist to attack us in battle; they expect us to fall into their hands like overripe fruit. They intend to bring this about by weakening our economic structure until we are financially insolvent and by giving us more and more Socialism until we are too weak to resist the final thrust into complete Communist rule. As we review the Socialistic and economic picture in this nation today, we are forced to admit that they have once again proceeded exactly as planned." Wake-Up America, Hawkes publishing Inc., 3775 South 500 W., Salt Lake City, Utah 84115. Preston goes on to quote in his book on page 18, the second point Khrushchev made that was to cause the overthrow of the United States. "The best way to destroy the Capitalist System is to debauch the currency. By a continuing process of inflation, governments can confiscate, secretly and unobserved, an important part of the wealth of their citizens." Wake-Up America, pp. 15-17. There shall be wars and rumors of wars until Jesus returns. However, the world and man will not be destroyed by a world wide nuclear holocaust. The Bible makes this very clear. God's people are here and will be delivered out of this world at Christ's Second Coming. 1.Thessalonians 4:16. It will be Jesus who will lay this world in complete ruins, not the Communists. The threat of a world-wide nuclear war is nothing less than another Communist plot to frighten the inhabitants of the world into believing that a One World Government is the only solution for world peace. The reader must understand that Communism is not being run from Moscow, but by those who control the monetary systems of the world in London, Paris and New York. Do you really believe they would blow up each other? As stated before, when Adam Weishaupt and the House of Rothschild formed their New Order for the Ages, or The Illuminati, they infiltrated the high levels of the nations in Europe through Freemasonry. Through this they hoped to be able to fill the top positions in the Old World Governments so they could legislate bills that would connect the countries according to their plans. Using social issues and humanitarian causes, the Illuminati of today have in their ranks untold millions promoting this same Luciferic scheme, and many in it are completely unawares. Millions upon millions of sincere people think they are doing the world a great service by joining this international Luciferian movement that's coming under a name today called "The New Age Movement." Constance Cumbey, a Christian lawyer, got wind of this movement and spent painstaking months gathering New Age books and magazines, so she could expose it for what it really is. She states in her book, The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow, The New Age Movement And Our Coming Age Of Barbarism, that the New Age Movement uses secret code names and symbols today, as we showed you earlier. One of the most important symbols in this modern day Luciferian Conspiracy is, however, the rainbow. Also called the Antahkarama, it is used in the occult as an hypnotic device. This modern version of the Illuminati calls the rainbow the "International Sign of Peace." But to the higher orders of this movement, it represents in symbolic language that they are building a rainbow bridge between the personality (man) and the over-soul, or the Great Universal Mind. This Great Universal Mind is Sanat Kumara, or Lucifer [15]. New Agers display this rainbow symbol on their cars and businesses. After carefully investigating the publishing houses and organizations that are today promoting this modern day version of Adam Weishaupt's World Revolution, Attorney Constance Chumbey has compiled documentive proof that the New Age Movement has now a network of more than 10000 different organizations they are working through, just in the United States and Canada [16]. The modern day Luciferian Conspiracy to overthrow Christianity and all other religions that will not worship Lucifer is today called THE PLAN. It was Adam Weishaupt in the 18th century who first wrote out this Plan for a One World Luciferian Government. Then, 70 years later it was updated by Karl Marx in the 19th century. However, it was Alice Bailey whom Lucifer used to speak to the 20th century man. Alice Bailey died in 1949 leaving behind a step by step plan to destroy Christianity and all other religions and governments who will not adhere to this New Age Movement. Attorney Constance Chumbey points out in her book, The Hidden Dangers Of The Rainbow, how Alice Bailey, in The Externalisation of the Hierarcy, told New Agers to feel free to use weapons on religious groups who interfere in the political process of their movement. The New Age Movement plans to eliminate several billions of people from the earth's population. They say this must be done before the year 2000 if the world is to survive [17]. The weapons that they plan to use are NUCLEAR BOMBS, gained through the promotion of a nuclear freeze and disarmament. The countries of the world are to be pressured into giving up these nuclear weapons and they are to be placed into the hands of the United Nations so they can police the world. On page 548 of her book, Alice Bailey is quoted as follows: "As a means in the hands of the United Nations to enforce the outer forms of peace, and thus give time for teaching on peace and on the growth of goodwill to take effect. The atomic bomb does not belong to the three nations who perfected it and who own the secrets at present - the United States of America, Great Britain and Canada. It belongs to the United Nations for use (or rather let us hope, simply for threatened use) when aggressive action on the part of any nation rears its ugly head." The Externalisation of the Hierarcy, Bailey. The most dangerous threat for Freedom and Christianity from these modern Luciferians is coming today under the guise of WORLD PEACE. To take control of the world, these conspirators had to get control of the world monetary systems through a Central Bank which we shall discover they have already achieved. Now they are working night and day to condition the world governments into handing over the weapons to them and place them in the very hands of those who want this One World Luciferian Government. Coming in the name of Nuclear Freeze for Peace, or Nuclear Disarmament, it has been their greatest task to get their hands on these nuclear weapons. Alice Bailey, whom these modern Luciferians follow to the letter, states the following in her book, The Externalisation of the Hierarchy: "In the preparatory period for the new world order there will be a steady and regulated disarmament. It will not be optional. No nation will be permitted to produce and organise any equiptment for destructive purposes or to infringe the security of any nation. One of the first tasks of any future peace conference will be to regulate this matter and gradually see to the disarming of the nations." This 20th Century Luciferian prophetess told her disciples that the nations of the 20th century will eventually hand over their nuclear weapons to the United Nations. This is their ultimate plan, because, as the reader continues to follow the history of this One World Luciferian Government Conspiracy, we will show with documentive evidence that the United Nations is the headquarters for the New Age Movement (Illuminati)!
[1] Masterplots Cyclopedia of World Authors, 1958, p.724,725 [2] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.15, p.657 [3] Encyclopedia Britannica, Vol.2, p.553 [4] Masterplots Cyclopedia of World Authors, 1958, p.725 [5] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.249 [6] The Naked Communist, Skousen, p.112 [7] Ibid. p.112 [8] The World Book Encyclopedia, Vol.4, p.726b [9] Ibid. p.726b [10] Ibid. p.726b [11] Ibid. p.725 [12] Wake Up America, Preston, p.51,52 [13] The Communist Manifesto, Randall, p.37 [14] Wake Up America, Preston, p.16 [15] The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow, Cumbey, p.77 [16] Ibid. p.58 [17] Ibid. p.152
[illuminati - 4b] [illuminati - 3] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
