# Illuminati - Concluded

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/newage_illuminati/concluded.htm

Conclusion
1. The Communistic Trap to use Christianity to destroy Christianity through The World Council of Churches.2. Signs today that show the Coming Merger of Communism (Illuminism), Catholicism, and Apostate Protestantism.3. The Coming World-wide "Reign of Terror."4. The Seal of the Living Cod on their Foreheads.5. Jesus Christ, who was, is, and is to come.6. A Sign given by Christ to Show the Earth and its inhabitants that Jesus Christ is the Creator.7. What the Mark of the Beast (Papacy) is.8. The Papacy is branded with the number 6669. Come out of her, My People.10. Jesus Christ will destroy Lucifer and all his people.11. The Universal Product Code
"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters. And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:" Revelation 14:6-10. The Bible expresses that the whole world has been deceived into false systems of religions which were invented by Lucifer. The Scriptures admonish us to turn to our Creator "and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." Revelation 14:7. We have not reached this period of time yet when the United States will speak as a dragon, and how he "exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him (Papacy), and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed." Revelation 13:11,12. But we are hurrying toward the fulfillment of these predictions. Hardly a day goes by that the reader will not see something in the US about the great work the Pope is doing in the world. Constantly, the Papacy is being exalted directly or indirectly before Americans as a Great Religious Movement working in the world for the benefit of mankind. In some Protestant circles, it is almost considered blasphemy to even mention anything against the Papacy or her Pope. She has painted a picture of herself today as a religious movement that has respect to all religions. However, let her again become powerful and dictatorial, and the same murderous character that slaughtered the French people who did not obey her authority will again be demonstrated. It was because of her idolatry that the Protestants refused to be connected with her during the Dark Ages. In the Bible, the doctrines she adopted from Sun worship and forced people to obey or die, are called the Wine of her fornication. Revelation 17:2,4. The United States is predicted from the Scriptures to exercise all the power of the First Beast (Papacy). In other words, the US will also become a religious dictatorship that will force the idolatry of the Papacy on its citizens and cause the other nations of the world to follow its example. It will be the Protestants in America, not the Papacy itself, but the Protestants, that will reinstate the Papacy with its Pope, in another religious tyranny even worse than during the first 1260 years it cast the Truth to the ground. It has been foretold and it shall come to pass. But, the reader may question, how could this ever happen in the US? In our Constitution we are protected from any religious movement forcing religious laws on people which force citizens to obey religious opinions and beliefs. The goal of all three of these powers foretold in Scripture "that go out into the world to gather them together whose names are not written in the Lamb's book of life" will be to change our Constitution by simply calling for an amendment or Constitutional convention. As stated before, these three powers as symbolized in Scripture are: ++ Dragon - Beast from the Bottomless Pit (Communism) ++ Beast - First Beast of Revelation 13:1 (Catholicism) ++ False Prophet - Second Beast of Revelation 13:11-17 (American Protestantism) They are ever working separately behind the public eye in high places within our government to change, and eventually try to throw out, our Constitution. Be not deceived, the Papacy has planted their agents in our government just like the Communists have. They too have had Congressmen, Senators, and even a President that have been inventing laws along with the Communists, that have little by little been chiseling away our Constitution. Remember, Adam Weishaupt, the real author of the Communist Manifesto, learned to infiltrate governments by once being a Jesuit priest himself. The Jesuits are the Gestapo of the Roman Catholic Church. If the reader needs something to show what the Papacy's real intentions are for America, here is a bit of information right from their own publication, that should alert any loyal American, Christian or non-Christian: "Protestantism is just as wrong now as it was in 1517. It is the duty incumbent on us as Catholics to 'spread the word' and make America Catholic ... Father Isaac Hecker founded the Paulist Fathers for the express purpose of making America Catholic. They are still at it and doing a fine job of it. It is the goal of every bishop, priest and religious order in the country. No Catholic can settle, with good conscience, for a policy of appeasement, or even mere co-existence with a non-Catholic community." Our Sunday Visitor, luly 31, 1960 - Quoted from Preparation for the Final Crisis, Chaij, Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1966, p. 177. But the reader still may question how the Papacy could unite with Communism, along with the Protestants, into a New World Order when the Papacy appears to be so set against it? This may quickly be answered by just briefly looking into the modern philosophy of both Catholicism worldwide, and Protestantism in these modern times. In John Stormer's book, The Death of a Nation, he brings out how Catholicism, Protestantism and Communism are today finding mutual ground: "The fight against communism, J. Edgar Hoover has said,'... is economic, social, psychological, diplomatic and strategic - but above all IT IS SPIRITUAL.' "America is losing the economic, social, diplomatic and strategic battles with communism because the traditional spiritual leaders of the nation - the churches and the clergy - are largely committed, knowingly or unknowingly, to the communist side. "This is a serious charge - but careful investigation shows that churches and men who call themselves 'Christian' are deeply divided today." The Death of a Nation, Stormer, Liberty Bell Press, 1968, p. 90. In the beginning of the study of the origin of Communism, which derived out of Witchcraft, we stated that one of the ultimate goals of the Illuminati was to destroy all religions, including Christianity. It may seem to be a contradiction to state that Communism and Catholicism and Protestantism will unite under one banner after stating Communism wants to destroy Christianity. However, Communism, as stated before, is not being run by Communists, but by the Luciferians, who control the wealth of the world. They want to cause another "Reign of Terror," and this time the anarchy is to be world-wide. Communism, Catholicism, and Protestantism are ALL just tools of the Devil which he is using to eventually destroy the Real Religion of the Bible, and attempt to make Lucifer the only god of this world. Using Catholicism, Protestantism, and Communism, the Luciferians hope to throw the world into complete mayhem, so in the end, the people of the world who survive this coming Holocaust will become disillusioned with both Christianity and Communism, and just as during the French Revolution, blame Christianity and Christ as the reasons for the world's problems. Earlier, Albert Pike made this very clear. This is no nursery rhyme or part in a play we have been presenting before you, these things are for real, and deadly serious. This is Satan's last effort to take complete control of this world. Jesus Himself predicted what will happen in the last days we live: "And woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days! But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day: For then shall be Great Tribulation, SUCH AS WAS NOT SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE WORLD TO THIS TIME, NO, NOR EVER SHALL BE. AND EXCEPT THOSE DAYS SHOULD BE SHORTENED, THERE SHOULD NO FLESH BE SAVED: BUT FOR THE ELECT'S SAKE THOSE DAYS SHALL BE SHORTENED." Matthew 24:19-22. To continue to show how these three unclean spirits will gather the people of the world into a great battle against its Real Creator, let's now look at how Communism has penetrated into Protestantism. International bankers have made a ton of money financing nations to buy weapons to kill each other. Any concerned Christian who has any insight into Bible prophecy can see that the Korean and Vietnam Wars, like the World Wars, were just a money making venture by these international bankers who are controlling American foreign policy. The United States could have flattened the whole nation of North Vietnam without sending one soldier to walk its territory. Without using the nuclear bomb, the US Naval Fleet or the US Air Force could have stopped the Communist aggression in Vietnam many years before it ended. One doesn't have to be a military officer to say that. But the fact is, the military leaders were under orders not to end the war. The long, meaningless Vietnam war only accomplished three things. First it proved to be a bonanza for the super-rich. Second, it destroyed over 50 thousand American men and women. And third, it helped destroy the morale of many Americans. What many Americans do not realize is that the Communists have been using Christianity to spread Communism by posing as missionaries, and great humanitarians, while at the same time overthrowing countries by riot and revolution. In the name of Peace they have destroyed many. To put it bluntly, the Communists have been working through Protestant organizations and civil rights groups to spread their movement. What appeared at first to be a Protestant Christian organization is now a political monster coming in the name of Christianity. It is one of the biggest Communist traps next to the United Nations. And like the United Nations, it too had Communist elements behind its founding. We are pointing to the organization which calls itself The World Council of Churches, and its offshoot called The National Council of Churches. It was the World Council of Churches that helped Vietnam fall completely into the Communists' hands by using its members to pressure the US into stopping its bombing of North Vietnam. Stormer goes on to state in his book, The Death of a Nation, what the World Council of Churches did to prolong the war: "American efforts to prevent communism from enslaving the people of South Vietnam has been attacked and condemned by major church leaders and organizations. Since 1966, the World Council of Churches, of which most major U.S. Protestant denominations are a part, has regularly denounced American efforts to halt communism's spread. In February 1966, for example, the Central Committee of the World Council meeting in Geneva, Switzerland... called upon the United States to halt its bombing of North Vietnam, pull its troops out of South Vietnam, and 'review and modify' its policy of trying to contain communism." St. Louis Post Dispatch, February 16, 1966. Quoted in Death of a Nation, Stormer, Liberty Bell Press, 1968, pp. 90, 91. Stormer wrote his book while the Vietnam war was still going on. And as we now know, the United States did stop its bombing of North Vietnam and did pull out of South Vietnam leaving millions of dollars of military equipment as a gift to the Communists to give to other Communists to help with their efforts in spreading riot and revolution in other countries such as Central America. The World Council of Churches was formally constituted at Amsterdam on August 23, 1948 [1] for the sole purpose of religious ecumenicity for the New World Order of the super-rich. Even though the Roman Catholic Church keeps itself at a short distance from being a member of this Protestant movement, the Roman Catholic Church for years has been advocating not only a religious ecumenical merger, but also a social one as well. She has been showing for the past few decades how she will merge with the Dragon (Illuminati-Communistic-Socialistic Movement) and her herald, the False Prophet (Apostate Protestantism), as it was predicted almost 2,000 years ago in the book of Revelation 13:11-17; 16:13,14. John A. Stormer has also compiled information from an official publication of the Catholic Church, showing how today the Roman Church is beginning to merge with Communism: "John C. Bennett is a leader in the World and National Councils of Churches. As head of on important seminary he is responsible for training young ministers. He frequently appears on television to give the 'Christian' point of view on major issues. Yet he cannot bring himself to condemn a godless force which has brutally slaughtered 40-million Chinese. His words show he is not a naive, uninformed man. He knows the communists used brainwashing, mass murder, and dictatorship in bringing communism to China. Even so, he refuses to reject these 'means' because they are being used to achieve what he believes is a good end. "Bennett is not alone in his views. The World Council of Churches Conference on the Church and Society heard Red China described as ... 'THE NEW SAVIOUR OF THE POOR NATIONS OF THE WORLD.' - AP The News and Observer, Raleigh, N.C. July 17, 1966. "SIMILAR VIEWS ARE EXPRESSED IN CATHOLIC CIRCLES. Msgr Charles Owen Rice, in his column in the October 6, 1966 Pittsburgh Catholic, official publication of the diocese of Pittsburgh, PA., used almost the same words os John C. Bennett. Msgr. Rice wrote: "It may sound strange coming from a Catholic priest, but I am convinced we should pray for the survival of the present government of China ... The present government, even though Communist, has brought order to its vast nation, order and admirable measures of internal peace." "Mao Tse-tung and his followers have changed China utterly and the change has been for the better... To be sure he has established and maintained tight control, and has insisted on an austere program. He incessantly propagandizes. He, alas, uses hate as a weapon for control and motivation. Many are the mistakes of Mao and his coterie, but the evidence is that the men now ruling from Peking desire the welfare of the people of China ..." "While Msgr. Rice was writing these words Red Guards were roaming China carrying out a wave of terror in which at least five Catholic priests were buried alive and thousands of people were tortured and slain. His words reveal an apparent awareness of such terror campaigns and his approval of them. He said:'... terribly slow progress was badly dislocated by over communization and the Great Leap Forward. It is again, probably, being hampered by the current Red Guard campaign.' " "However, the Red Guard campaign is not foolishness ... The masses of China must sacrifice for the sake of the nation ... Any development of a superior class to ride on the shoulders of the masses must be rooted out with PERIODIC RUTHLESSNESS IF PEKING'S PROGRAM IS TO HAVE ANY CHANCE OF SUCCESS. PEKING ALSO MUST CONTINUE THE VIRTUALLY HOPELESS ATTEMPT TO KEEP THE REVOLUTIONARY FERVOR ALIVE." "WE SHOULD LOOK ON THIS WITH A CERTAIN SYMPATHY AND TOLERANCE ... ACTUALLY WE HAVE TO MIX ADMIRATION WITH OUR SYMPATHY FOR THE MIRACLE OF MANAGEMENT AND MASS MANIPULATION THAT PEKING HAS ACCOMPLISHED." "With men who think like John C. Bennett and Msgr. Rice providing the leadership, the General Board of the National Council of Churches voted 90 to 3 on February 23, 1966 to advocate of the Red Chinese butchers to the United Nations - UPI, Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, Mar. 15, 1966." The Death of a Nation, Stormer, Liberty Bell Press, 1968, pp. 93, 94. Communism, The Papacy, and the Apostate Protestant Churches will unite shortly into one movement as the Scriptures have predicted, with the office of the Pope directing the affairs of this New World Order. But before the ordinary people will accept this New World Order, there will come a spirit of world-wide revolution that will be seen everywhere, especially in the streets of the cities of the United States. The riots of the 1960's were only a shadow of what's coming. All this anarchy is to frighten the world into believing that a new world order is the only solution to avoid the entire destruction of the human race. However, before the whole world will be thrown into complete anarchy our Lord's last day message is to go out into the world. This last day message is given as we have read in Revelation 14:6-10. This last day message is to go out to every kindred, nation and tongue and people before God allows Satan to throw the world into a holocaust which has never been witnessed in the history of this world. In Revelation 18:1-5 our Lord is calling His people out of Babylon which represents the coming confederacy of a One World Religion and One World Government that has left God out as it was in the days of Nimrod. The time allowed by God to keep in check the universal destruction among all nations is symbolized in Revelation 7:1-3. "And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. And I saw another angel ascending from the east having THE SEAL OF THE LIVING GOD: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, Saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have SEALED THE SERVANTS OF GOD IN THEIR FOREHEADS." Not only will man cause destruction in this coming holocaust, but nature herself will be thrown out of order. Jesus foretold in Luke 21:10-13, 25,26: "Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom anainst kingdom. And GREAT EARTHQUAKES shall be in divers places, and FAMINES, and PESTILENCES; and FEARFUL SIGHTS AND GREAT SIGNS SHALL THERE BE FROM HEAVEN. But BEFORE ALL THESE, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake. And it shall turn to you for a testimony. And there shall be SIGNS IN THE SUN, AND IN THE MOON, AND IN THE STARS: AND UPON THE EARTH DISTRESS OF NATIONS, WITH PERPLEXITY; THE SEA AND WAVES ROARING; MEN'S HEARTS FAILING THEM FOR FEAR, AND FOR LOOKING AFTER THOSE THINGS WHICH ARE COMING ON THE EARTH: FOR THE POWERS OF HEAVEN SHALL BE SHAKEN." All this is to happen shortly before Jesus comes again. "And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. And when these things come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." Luke 21:27 28. Those who are alive in these last days who are to go through this coming great tribulation must be sealed in their foreheads with the seal of the Living God. The Scriptures have predicted that the majority of the earth's inhabitants will accept the Mark of the Beast, for the Protestants of the United States will "causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads." Revelation 13:16. There is a Seal of God and a Mark of the Beast (Papacy). It will be these two principles that will separate those who will obey God or Lucifer. As we studied throughout this book, Satan has always used camouflages and religious rites that teach just the opposite of what the Lord says in Scripture, to turn people to him instead, through a network of false gods and false doctrines. Sun worship was and still is the biggest rival of True Christianity. In order to understand what the Seal of God is, the reader must understand just who was Jesus Christ. In the book, Beware Its Coming The Antichrist 666, published by Workers For God, Inc., it is brought out for the ordinary reader very clearly: "Before the birth of the real incarnate of God, the Seed that will bruise the serpent's head, the real Bright and Morning Star, the real God-Man, was to make His appearance on the behalf of man, Satan's messiah had already been preached and worshipped throughout the world, counterfeiting the religious rites passed down to God's people by the Patriarchs. Satan tried to destroy the True Faith by false gods, and when the written word was given, Satan hoped the learned men of the world would look to Christ as just another pagan messiah. When the Greatest Advent in man's history came into the world for the salvation of the human race: 'He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: And we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows: Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: The chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.' " Isaiah 53:3-5. "In the ancient world, Satan deceived millions with the darkness of pagan Sun worship. In these modern days Satan has taken on a brighter look, it's called Christianity. Instead of using the name Baal, which means Lord or Master, he is coming in the name of Jesus." "But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that readeth understand) then let them that be in Juda flee to the mountains: And let him that is on the housetop not go down into the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house. And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take up his garment. But woe to them that are with child and to them that give suck in those days." Mark 13:14-17 "One thousand years before the first advent of our Lord, David likened the people of God to Sheep, and our Lord to a GOOD SHEPHEAD. David was a shepherd as a boy, who protected his sheep from the evil beasts around them. David, just a boy, killed a lion and a bear that took a lamb out of his flock. See 1.Samuel 17:34-37. David knew as the shepherd of the field protected his sheep from the evils of the world, so does the Good Shepherd in Heaven watch over His Flock. Just as the shepherd of the field could call his sheep by name, and his sheep knowing his voice would follow, so will the people of the Lord's Flock hear His voice from the Scriptures and do the things which He commands us. One millennium before God became a Man in Christ, David wrote: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul: He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: For thou art with me: Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: Thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever." Psalm 23. At a later time, Jesus said: "I am the Good Shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me." John 10:14,27. "In these final days of earth's history, there are multitudes of Christian churches, pastors, priests, Bible instructors, laymen, using television, radio, magazines, newspapers, and tracts proclaiming the Gospel of Christ; however, there is much religious confusion. But if the seeker would forget about what churches have to say, and find the Lord of the Bible, and seek to do His will: 'Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.' " Malachi 3:18. "Thus saith the Lord the King of Israel, and his redeemer the Lord of Hosts; I am the first, and I am the last, and beside me there is no god. And, behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star. And the spirit and the bride say come ... and whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely." Isaiah 44:6; Revelation 22:12, 12, 16, 17. Quoted from Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G., Inc., 1982, pp. 107, 108 (by permission). If the reader would like to study more into the deceptions with which Satan has fooled both pagans and Christians alike, may we recommend you get yourself a copy of "Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666." It proves through archaeology and history that Sun Worship indeed began with Nimrod, and that the Roman Catholic Church doctrines are from paganism and not from the Bible. They prove this by a complete study of Catholicism using their own publications. This book, Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, is one of the most complete studies about the Antichrist and that mysterious number 666 that has ever been published. The reader should try to find a copy in a Book and Bible House. Indeed, very few who call themselves Christians realize that it was Jesus Himself who created this Earth. Jesus is the God of the Old Testament which spoke through the Old Testament Prophets. It was jesus who told Eve that "the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." Genesis 2:17. Paul, describing Jesus to the Ephesians, tried to make them understand, by saying: "And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ." Ephesians 3:9. Again Paul, describing who Jesus was to Timothy, said: "And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, Justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory." 1.Timothy 3:16. Jesus Himself said: "I and the Father are one." John 10:30. We are very much aware how some churches deny that Jesus was God and the existence of the Holy Trinity. But the Bible says: "For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: And these three are one." 1.John 5:7. Jesus is the Word Of God incarnated. Revelation 19:11-13. John saw Jesus in a vision and said: "And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth Judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called THE WORD OF GOD." The Apostle John described Jesus as the Word Of God that created the whole universe: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth." John 1:1-3, 14. Jesus Christ was God manifested in the Flesh. It was Jesus who was the creative force of the Godhead that said, "Let there be light." Genesis 1:3. "In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins: Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature: For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: All things were created by him and for him." Colossians 1:14-16. The Child that Isaiah the Prophet said that was to be born of a virgin (Isaiah 7:14) also said "his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The Mighty God, The Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. " Isaiah 9:6. It was Jesus who gave Moses the Ten Commandments. And it was Jesus who said in the Fourth Commandment, Exodus 20:8-11: "REMEMBER THE SABBATH DAY, TO KEEP IT HOLY. Six days shalt thou labour and do all thy work: But the SEVENTH DAY (Saturday) is the SABBATH OF THE LORD THY GOD: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor the stranger that is within thy gates: FOR IN SIX DAYS THE LORD MADE HEAVEN AND EARTH, THE SEA, AND ALL THAT IN THEM IS, AND RESTED THE SEVENTH DAY: WHEREFORE THE LORD BLESSED THE SABBATH DAY, AND HALLOWED IT." The seventh day Sabbath was given to man to help him remember that it was Christ himself who created the heaven and earth in six days and rested on the seventh day from all of His works that he had made. Multitudes of Protestant Doctors of Divinity, Pastors, Teachers, etc., will tell us that the seventh day Sabbath was only given to the Jews to observe. However, this is as false as the worship of the Sungod. Jesus gave the seventh day Sabbath at Creation which was over 2,000 years before the Jews came into history. In Genesis 2:1-3 we read: "Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God (Christ) ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: Because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." The seventh day Sabbath recognizes Jesus Christ as creator of this world. Sunday observance is not from the Bible, but from the astroloical worship of the Sun-God. Sunday is the first day of the week, not the seventh day. From the Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Vol. IV, Schaff, Funk & Wagnalls Company, 1894, P. 2259, we read the following: "Sunday (Dies solis, of the Roman Calendar, 'Day of the Sun,' because it was dedicated to the Sun), the first day of the week, was adopted by the early Christians as a day of worship." On the same page of this Encyclopedia, we read the following: "No regulations for its observance are laid down in the new testament, nor, indeed, is its observance even enjoined." As we studied earlier, in the worship of the Sun-God, every thing that was first was dedicated to the Sun-God and so was the first day of the week. This is Satan's counterfeit to our Lord's day. According to Funk & Wagnalls Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Sunday was substituted for the seventh day Sabbath given at creation by Christ himself by early Christian men, not by the one who instituted the Sabbath. Sunday observance was instituted by men, not by Christ or his apostles. We are fully aware that there are Protestant Pastors and Teachers telling the congregations that the original day of worship (the Seventh Day) was changed to commemorate the resurrection of Christ, however, that sounds good, but their is no such commandment in either the Old or the New Testament commanding Christians to observe the pagan day of Sunday. Absolutely Not! On the contrary, Jesus Himself warns about tampering with the Word of God as we saw earlier in Revelation 22: 18, 19. Man is not to change or add anything to Sacred Scripture. "Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar." Proverbs 30:6. Many are those who tell others that it was Jesus who changed the Sabbath from Saturday to Sunday, but the Bible says "I am the Lord, I change not;"..."Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever."..."Therefore the son of man is Lord also of the Sabbath day." Malachi 3:6, Hebrews 13:8, Mark 2:28. Jesus is our example. He came down from Heaven to show His people how to live and the right road that will lead to eternal life. "Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." John 8:12. If we claim to be Christians we claim also to be His followers. "He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked." 1.John 2:6. In other words, if you say you are Christian, you are to walk in Christ's footprints. "And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up for to read." Luke 4:16. Jesus kept the Seventh Day Sabbath holy, not the pagan day of the Sun-God which is the first day of the week, which is even called Sun-Day, the day of the Sun-God, who in reality is Lucifer. It was Satan who changed the Sabbath into Sunday, not Christ or His apostles. This was also foretold. Daniel the Prophet in the seventh chapter of Daniel predicted four acts that the Little Horn would do against God in Daniel 7:25: "And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shall wear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times and laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and the dividing of time." As we stated before, the Little Horn of Daniel 7:8, 23, 24, and the First Beast of Revelation 13: 1-10 are symbols of the Papacy. Daniel the Prophet foretold in more detail what the Papacy was to do against the Most High, while John in the book of Revelation 13:1-10, 18 saw a similar vision of this anti-Christian power, but was given a clue that would absolutely identify it as a deception of Satan's, for it would be branded with Satan's number 666. We will see more of this in a moment. We have already seen how the Papacy has fulfilled everything in history which Daniel foretold about it except one of the four points of Daniel 7:25: "and think to change times and laws." Here, from the Roman Catholic Church's own publication, is really who is responsible for tampering with God's Law that has caused millions to trample it underfoot. "The Catholic Church for over one thousand years before the existence of a Protestant, by Virtue of her divine mission, changed the day from Saturday to Sunday." Catholic Mirror, Sept., 1983. From another Roman Catholic publication, we again read the following: "Of course the Catholic Church claims that the change was her act...And the act is a Mark of her ecclesiastical authority in religious things." H. F. Thomas, Chancellor of Cardinal Gibbons. From another Roman Catholic publication called, Plain Talk for Protestants, p. 213 we read the following: "The observance of Sunday by the Protestants is an homage they pay in spite of themselves to the Authority of the Catholic Church." The Roman Catholic Church does not hide the fact that it was her church that is responsible for throwing away the Commandment to keep Holy the Seventh Day as it is set forth in the Fourth Commandment found in the Ten Commandments. (Exodus 20:8-11). In the book Unfolding the Revelation, Roy Allan Anderson, D.D. it states the following: "Whatever the Mark of the Beast is, it must be something clear and definite. God's unmingled wrath would not be reserved as a punishment for an unknown offense. Furthermore, the mark of the beast must be in contradistinction to the 'seal' or mark of God. His seal, the sign of His creative power, as we have already noted, is God's rest day, or the true Sabbath. It follows that the seal or mark of this universal apostasy would be man's rest day, or the false day of worship. Unfolding the Revelation. Anderson, Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1974, p.155. As we have already observed, too, throughout this book that those who deal in Witchcraft have always had their secret signs to let other occultist know who they are, so does the Lord of the Sabbath let His people know that they have the right God: "And hallow my Sabbaths; and they shall be a SIGN between me and you, that ye may know that I am the Lord your God." Ezekiel 20:20. Sunday is the MARK of the beast (Papacy). The seventh day Sabbath is the SEAL of God. The mark of the beast and the seal of God, are not a literal mark on the forehead as multitudes have said. Lucifer is at war with Cod over the control of the mind of man. The Mark of the Beast is applied when Sunday-Keepers by law force the observance of Sunday as a day of rest. Today they are called BLUE LAWS. The Sabbath and the false Sabbath, Sunday, will shortly bring the line of distinction between those who will settle in their minds which of the two powers they will obey, the Roman Catholic Church, or the Christ of the Bible. Looking to the end of the world Jesus said to those who will go through this Great Tribulation: "But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day." The end of the world has not yet come. And Jesus tells us to pray that our flight to the wilderness during the coming holocaust be not in the winter or on the Sabbath Day, showing Jesus stills holds man responsible today for keeping the Sabbath Day holy. In Revelation 14:6-11 is Christ's last warning to the world. In it, He is calling His people to turn away from the Papacy and worship Him who created the Heaven, Earth and the Sea, and the fountains of waters. When you observe the Sabbath (Seventh Day) as it is set forth in the Ten Commandments, you are showing that you recognize Jesus Christ as the Creator. When you observe Sunday, you are showing you obedience to Rome. It was Satan who used the Roman Catholic Church to change, and tuck away the original day of worship, to Sunday, which derived out of Sun-worship. And, "Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey;" Romans 6:16 (first part). In ancient times, Kings would use a seal to authorize all their important documents. A seal is a badge of authority. A seal not only shows the king's authority, but also his territory, and his name. When a worshipper of Christ observes the Sabbath of the Bible, he shows that he recognizes Christ's authority, His ownership of this world, and that there is "none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." Acts 4:12. The False Sunday Sabbath will be the tool that will unite the merchants and the labor unions which are controlled by The Illuminati, to join the Protestants in a joint effort to force through legislation the observance of Sunday, which will bring persecution on those who do not recognize it. The God of the Bible is calling to Him a people who will follow Him all the way and will help restore the Seventh Day Sabbath back to its rightful place. Even in the New Heaven and New Earth, God's true people will be observing the Seventh Day Sabbath. Isaiah, the Prophet foretold this in Isaiah 66:22, 23: "For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the Lord, so shall your seed and your name remain. And it shall come to pass that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the Lord." The Lord of the Sabbath is calling His people who have been deceived by the Papacy, whether they are members of the Catholic Church or are Protestants who have been taught to observe Sunday, to come back to the doctrines of the Bible and come out of Babylon the great, which is a symbol of all churches that teach doctrines that derived out of Sunworship. The Bible makes very clear that the THREE UNCLEAN SPIRITS or the three powers that go forth to gather the world against God will combine their forces under one banner. It will be the Principle of Sunday legislation that will be the factor that will become the issue, that they will find common ground which will unite them under one banner. "These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the Beast." Revelation 17:13. Once a believer finds out about the Papacy's apostasy, and how they have been duped into believing in a system of false Christianity, the Lord will demand his or her loyalty to Him. As we showed from Scripture earlier, our Lord accepts our worship even if we are in error, if we are worshipping him with knowledge we have received. But when our ignorance has been exposed, we are to turn from error and darkness, to Truth and Light. Sunday worship is a invention of Satan himself and it is the Mark (Sign) of apostasy while the Seventh Day Sabbath is a Seal (Sign) that we are the property of God. Won't you take your stand to restore the ancient day of rest that recognizes Jesus as the Creator? During the 1260 years of the Papal apostasy, the Scriptures foretold that Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots, would move its seat from Babylon to eventually end up in Vatican City. However, Babylon the Great is not only the Papacy, it is all religions that teach these same doctrines we have studied throughout this book. The Lord makes it very plain that he has people still in Babylon and he is calling them out! This Great False Religious System is also predicted from Scripture to be destroyed, and those who do not take their stand to come over to the Lord's side will also receive their reward. "And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power, and the earth was lightened with his glory. And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Revelation 18:1-4. The line that will show who are really on God's side and who are just pretending, will be clearly seen in those who make an all out effort to follow Jesus all the way. The Christian has been duped by the Devil and conditioned by the Devil to observe Sunday as a day of rest. The whole world schedules its activities either around Sunday or Friday (the Moslem Sabbath), while the real day of worship (the Seventh Day Sabbath) has been neatly tucked away as a whole. Revelation 14, which warns about receiving the Mark of the Beast, in the same chapter also goes on to show those who are not deceived and have recognized how to avoid being deceived. "Here is the patience of the saints: Here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Revelation 14:12 In another area of this last book of the Bible, it clearly shows our Lord's True Church and how the Dragon (Devil) has made open avowed war on her. In Revelation 12:17 we read: "And the Dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Reader, that's all TEN, not just nine of them. "For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgessor of the law." James 2:10, 11. Once saved, always saved, is as false as Sunday worship. Jesus makes this very plain in Matthew 7:21-23: "Not every one that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in Heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils? And in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: Depart from me, ye that work inquity." Even to people who call themselves Christians, who can cast out devils, speak in tongues, foretell the future, or perform healing miracles, our Lord says: "To the law and to the testimony: If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. He that saith I know Him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even, his prayer shall be abomination." Isaiah 8:20, 1.John 2:4, Proverbs 28-9. Even though the reader may have trampled underfoot the Seventh Day Sabbath which recognizes Christ as creator, our Lord is still holding back the winds of destruction so that those who are still in Babylon may have a chance to flee out of it before it receives its plagues. God promises a blessing on those who make their stand for Him in Isaiah 58:13-14. "If thou will turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my Holy Day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable, and shalt honour Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: For the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." Now to show the reader that there is no mistake in identifying this Beast where Satan's seat is (Revelation 13:1, 2), who even boasts about changing God's Law, "Here is Wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the nmber of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six." Revelation 13:18. The Beast here is the Papacy as we have already seen. Our Lord made it very plain that this religious power will also be branded with Satan's number. Our Lord does not leave His people in darkness about this. In Unfolding The Revelation, by Roy Allan Anderson, he has compiled some very interesting facts that show how the Papacy is branded with this number of doom. Let us now see how the Papacy itself and the name of it's Pope today, add to 666. Here found on page 130 of Anderson's Unfolding The Revelation is the location of this Beast's residence. Here in Greek with its numerical values, is "HE LATINE BASILEIA," which means in Greek with its transliterations, "THE LATIN KINGDOM" [2].H E L A T I N E B A S I L E I A0 8 30 1 300 10 50 8 2 1 200 10 30 5 10 1 = 666 The name "LATIN" is derived from the earlier Romans, centuries before the age of the Papacy. It was the name of the Sun-god who the early Romans worshipped. Hence the Romans, to identify themselves with their Sun-god, adopted their god's name. They called themselves "LATINS." Here is a name that shows in what country this religious power has its church. Here again in Greek with its transliterations and numerical values is "ITALIKA EKKLESIA" which means in Greek, "ITALIAN CHURCH" [3]. I T A L I K A E K K L E S I A10 300 1 30 10 20 1 5 20 20 30 8 200 10 1 = 666 The Papacy not only adopted the pagan rites of the early Roman Sun worshippers, but the sacred language of the pagan Romans. LATEINOS is theGreek spelling for Roman Sun-god (Latin). It also means, "Latin-speaking Man," or "Latin Man."Here is the Latin-speaking man (LATEINOS) [4]: L A T E I N O S30 1 300 5 10 50 70 200 = 666 Now here from a Roman Catholic authorized publication, the official name of the office of the Pope: "The Title of the Pope of Rome is VICARIUS FILII DEI and if you take the letters of his title which represent Latin numerals (printed large) and add them together they come to 666." Our Sunday Visitor, Nov. 15, 1914. quoted from Beware Its Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G., Inc., p. 143. Here is VICARIUS FILII DEI which means in Latin "VICAR OF THE SON OF GOD," added in Roman Numerals [5]:V I C A R I U S F I L I I D E I5 1 100 0 0 1 5 0 0 1 50 1 1 500 0 1 = 666 Since the publication of Roy Allan Anderson's Unfolding the Revelation, and The Antichrist 666, there have been elected two new Popes. And, a new dynasty to what the Papacy claims to be the succession of Peter. There have been in numerous newspapers and magazines claiming Pope John Paul to be "Christ in the Flesh," which is blasphemy. And ironically enough, if you write John Paul Vicar of God in LATIN, and add it up in Roman Numerals, you get: I U A N P A U L O V I C E D E O0 5 0 0 0 0 5 50 0 5 1 100 0 500 0 0 = 666 The book of Revelation predicts that all powers of this world, including the Illuminati and apostate Protestantism, will make the Papacy the absolute authority in the near future. It may appear that the Papacy is at odds with Communism, however, through the sure word of prophecy they will unite. It may sound confusing to some, but that's actually why the Divine Language in Revelation 17:5 calls it Mystery, Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots and Abominations of the Earth. Babylon means confusion, and this term applied here in Revelation 17:5 means the great spiritual confusion of the world. Babylon the Great is pictured in Revelation 17 as sitting on a scarlet (red) color Beast that ascends from the Bottomless Pit (Spiritualism), which symbolized the Illuminati-Communistic-Socialistic movement today. This shows that this Political Power is also to become world-wide. However, it will be the Papacy that is to be the Head of this last Political Power again shortly before the Second Coming of Jesus Christ. The Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit has eight powers, and we have already seen that heads on a Beast in Bible prophecy represents the controlling powers. It is still unclear what powers for sure are the eight powers mentioned in Revelation 17:9-11 and it is dangerous to be dogmatic when it comes to unfulfilled prophecy. However, we can know for sure who the first five are, because they have already passsed in history. Says the Bible: "And there are seven kings: FIVE ARE FALLEN, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the EIGHTH, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition." The first five heads here suggests: Babylon, Persia, Greece, Pagan Rome, and Papal Rome. It is the sixth and seventh head where most who have studied deep into the Mystery of Godliness have still a problem solving because we have not reached in history as yet when the Papacy is fully restored. However, we can be positive in saying that the eighth power represents the confederacy of Communism, Apostate Protestantism and the Roman Catholic Church. There are, however, some suggestions of who the sixth and seventh heads are. One Bible Commentary suggests the following about the Eight Powers found on the Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit: "According to this pattern of interpretation the powers represented by the first five heads would be Babylon, Persia, Greece, The Roman Empire, and the Papacy. The Sixth and Seventh Heads might be Revolutionary France and the United States, or the United States and a restored Papacy." S.D.A. Bible Commentary, Vol. 7, p. 855. So, the eight powers may be: Babylon Papacy Persia Illuminati (Communism) Greece United States (Apostate Protestantism) Rome Papacy, United States, Communism Before we close there is another important issue of the day we need to seriously examine. Attorney Constance Cumbey, while investigating "The New Age Movement," exposed another goal of these One World Luciferian Government conspirators. They will call for a "World Food Authority" [6]. Although we do not agree at all with Constance Cumbey's interpretation of Revelation the 13th and 17th chapters, however, we do believe that there is a wealth of valuable information for concerned Christians and non-Christians alike, found in her book that will help a seeker of truth avoid being another victim of this world-wide conspiracy. We suggest the reader obtain a copy of The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow, by Constance Cumbey. We are very much aware of the many different interpretations given throughout Christendom about who this Second Beast is in Revelation 13:11-17 and how this Mark of the Beast shall keep the true followers of Jesus of Nazareth from buying and selling. One of the most popular interpretations found in the 1980's on this subject tells us that this Second Beast of Revelation 13:11-17 is not a political power (U.S.), but it is supposed to be a man who is a Jew from the tribe of Dan and a master of Satanic magic. He will proclaim that the "First Beast" (which has been interpreted also as a man, not a political power) is the Antichrist and it will be this "False Prophet" (Second Beast, Rev. 13:11-17) that will cause the whole world to worship the First Beast (man who is the Anti-christ), because he will claim to be God [7]. This "Second Beast," according to Hal Linsey, is the "False Prophet" (man) who will force the worship of this "First Beast" (man), who will be a Roman dictator. And this, according to Lindsey, is the Antichrist. Now, this last world dictator, according to Mary Stewart Relfe, Ph.D., will control the world's buying and selling through the Universal Product Code that is found now on the back of the items you buy at your favorite supermarket. Mary Steward Relfe states in her book, The New Money System 666, on page 206, what she thinks is the Mark of the Beast: "The Mark of the Beast, the only unpardonable sin specifically named in the Bible, and the only sin for which God metes out a named 4-fold punishment is:1. Receiving of one's own volition the Mark (brand) in the right hand or forehead; which I believe will be a bar code facsimile incorporating a concealed use of '666', unintelligible to the eye, which will entitle one to all the benefits of "Man's Great Society," in exchange for:2. Worship of the Beast (Man) who claims to be God; and3. Worship of his image." This would sound very interesting to the casual seeker who would like to know what this most solemn warning really means. However, those who are learned in the areas of Bible prophecy and have studied deep into Jewish symbolism, know that what Relfe and Linsey stated about the "Two Beasts" found in Revelation the 13th chapter (as being two men), breaks every law of good Biblical scholarship. A Beast, in Bible prophecy, is a symbol of a "political power," not an individual man. Daniel the Prophet was clearly shown this (Daniel 7:17, 23, 24). Like the names Baal and Eel, multitudes also get the Number of the Beast (666) and the Mark of the Beast confused as being the same thing. They are NOT the same thing. There are five different warnings from our Lord concerning identifying with this Beast (who is the Papacy). 1. Worship of the Beast 2. Worship the image of the Beast 3. Receive the Mark of the Beast 4. Or have the Name of the Beast 5. Or the Number of his Name (666) The Mark of the Beast is not the Universal Product Code. It is a settling in your mind of whom you will obey. The "First Beast" found in Revelation 13:1-10 is symbolized here as the Papacy and all the pagan nations before it that promoted Spiritualism. The Mark of the Beast is forced observance of the False Sabbath, Sunday. The Roman Catholic Church is responsible today in causing the majority of Protestant Churches to trample underfoot the original Day of Rest (Seventh Day Sabbath). Sunday worship is not a Commandment from the Bible, but a commandment found on the pages of most astrological heathen religions. It was Lucifer, "The Shining One," whom the ignorant Sun worshippers bowed to and so is it today. The Sun is just a camouflage the Devil hides behind to get the people of the world to turn their backs to the Real Creator. And so is it with the observance of Sunday. Sunday tradition is an invention of Satan himself. Jesus of Nazareth said He is the "Lord of the Sabbath," not Sunday. See Mark 2:27, 28. However, nobody has received the Mark of the Beast as yet. The Universal forced Sunday observance law is still in the near future. There shall be multitudes of Sunday observers who died in Christ in Heaven. The controversy between Sunday and the Seventh Day Sabbath is an issue that will be settled in these latter times. Just before Jesus of Nazareth comes for his people, all the doctrines that were lost during the 1260 year Papal apostasy will be presented before those who call themselves Christians. When the truth about the Seventh Day Sabbath is brought out in the light, multitudes of sincere Sunday keepers will begin to ask their religious leaders where in the Word of God is the Commandment to observe Sunday! This will stir up a controversy in both Christianity and in the Pagan Religions. While worldly Christians try to find excuses to ignore the call for Sabbath reform, a small group of sincere Christians from all faiths will hear what the Spirit is saying unto the churches and will obey the call from God to: "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: But the Seventh Day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: For in six days the Lord made Heaven and Earth, the Sea, and all that in them is, and rested the Seventh day: Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Exodus 20:8-11 Sunday worship is part of the wine of her fornication (False Doctrines) that has made the whole world intoxicated with false religions. Witchcraft (Spiritualism), the powerful force of Lucifer's might, will reach its peak shortly. The Father of Lies will pour out every conceivable sign and lying wonder to gather the ignorant against those who will not sanction Sunday. "Babylon the Great" of Revelation the 17th chapter is a symbol of all the religions of the world united together under a New World Religion. This New World Religion which will have both Roman Catholic and Protestant movements, will unite with Spiritualism. This New Age Movement calling for a New World Religion will also call for a Universal Day of Rest. This day will be Sunday. And it will soon be a criminal offense with the pain of death, if not sanctioned. It has been foretold and it will come to pass. We should not ignore however, what Mary Stewart Relfe, Ph.D., is trying to show her readers. The Bible clearly states that the true followers of Jesus of Nazareth will suffer persecution in these closing days. "And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the Mark, or the Name of the Beast, or the Number of his Name." (666) Revelation 13:17. Even though Mary Stewart Relfe, Ph.D., has the Universal Product Code mixed up as being the Mark of the Beast, nevertheless, the Bible makes it very plain that the followers of Jesus of Nazareth will not be able to buy or sell either, unless they accept the Number (666) of the Beast. We should not ignore this universal plan to introduce a World Wide Credit Card, or Money Card, with its International Code as being 666. We thank Mary Stewart Relfe for her efforts in trying to make sleeping Christians to become aware and behold what Satan is doing today. Like Constance Cumbey's, The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow, we recommend the reader possess a copy of Mary Stewart Relfe's Book, The New Money System. Whether or not World Commerce will be conducted by a cashless system for exchanging goods by using a Universal Credit Card still remains to be seen. However, the sad truth about this whole Antichrist movement is that the Bible predicts that most people living in these latter days will be deceived and lost by it. Why will multitudes of Christians be deceived? Again, the Scriptures remind us: "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children." Hosea 4:6. We must know the issues for ourselves. We must have a firm knowledge and belief in Jesus Christ and His Holy Scriptures!! The religion of Astrology is predicting a Utopian World Government will be established in the New Age of Aquarius. Lucifer and his people are trying to condition the world to unite together so peace and safety will come. In the name of Peace and Love does this great delusion go forth. However, Paul the Apostle of Jesus of Nazareth foretold: "For when they shall say peace and Safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light: We are not of the night, nor of darkness." 1.Thessalonians 5:3-5. There will never be peace in this present evil world until Satan, His angels, and his people are destroyed by Jesus of Nazareth. Terrible will it be for those in this world who rejected the Love of Jesus. Revelation 6:15 foretells how those who reject Jesus of Nazareth will feel at his Second Coming. "And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains: And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of Him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lord. For the great day of His wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?" Jesus will not set up His kingdom in this present evil world. Jesus plainly states: "My kingdom is not of this world: If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: But now is my kingdom not from hence." John 18:36. It will be Lucifer himself, personating Jesus, that will deceive the very elect if possible into believing that long looked for Kingdom of God has come upon the earth. Lucifer himself will personate Jesus of Nazareth just before the real Christ comes with all His angels. This has been foretold and it will come to pass. There is hardly a Christian Church today that hasn't already been deceived by the false doctrine of a 1000 year reign of Christ on earth. The 1000 year reign of Christ is foretold in Revelation 20:1-10. Jesus of Nazareth will not meet His people on this earth. We are to meet Him in the Air. 1.Thessalonians 4:16, 17. The 1000 year reign is in Heaven, not on earth. What are we to do to escape the sudden destruction that will surely come upon the world? First, make sure you have made peace with God through Jesus of Nazareth. "And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkeness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of Man." Luke 21:34, 36. "Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from Heaven, and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed." Luke 17:28-30. The cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were only a shadow in ancient times of how the whole world was predicted from Scriptures to become. Our Lord is just as surely calling His people out of the cities and heavily populated areas today, as He called Lot and his family out. We are to flee the cities!! We are to get out in the rural areas where a plot of land can be used to grow our own food. The cities and heavily populated areas will be thrown into a world-wide Reign of Terror. The cities will become blood baths. The Ark of safety for Christians is to buy a piece of land as far away from the cities and heavily populated areas as possible. Those who are like Lot's wife that cannot give up worldy pleasures will also fall victim as the heathen, if they do not listen. Our Lord's council for us today is found in the prophesies of Isaiah 26: 20-21."Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: Hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. For, behold, the Lord cometh out of His place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: The earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain." We are living in the last era of the earth's history. It will end with Jesus' Second Coming. "And to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from Heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of His power" 2.Thessalonians 1:7-9. "Seek ye the Lord while He may be found, call ye upon Him while He is near: Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: And let him return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; And to our God, for He will abundantly pardon." Isaiah 55:6, 7.
[1] The Oxford English Dictionary of the Christian Church, Cross, p.1477 [2] Unfolding the Revelation, Anderson, p.130 [3] Ibid. p.130 [4] Ibid. p.131 [5] omitted[6] The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow, Cumbey, p.257 [7] The Late Great Plane Earth, Lindsey p.111,112
[table of contents] [illuminati - 4b] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
The End
