# Illuminati - 3

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/newage_illuminati/illuminati_05.htm

Chapter 3
1. Understanding the symbolic term Harlot as given in prophecy.2. A comprehensive study of Revelation, the 17th chapter.3. A comprehensive study of Daniel, the 7th chapter.4. Understanding the symbolic Beast from the Bottomless Pit.5. The 1260 year prophecy of the Two Witnesses and the Papal apostasy.6. Adam Weishaupt, The Human Devil, the 18th century Nimrod.7. The History of the Secret Society of The Illuminati.8. The Illuminati becomes a Freemasonry Order.
"The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John: Who bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw. "Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand. And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city. For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie. I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star. And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely. For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of this prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: And if any man shall take away from the words of this book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the Holy City, and from the things which are written in this book." Revelation 1:1-4; 22:12-19. Of all the books of the Bible, the book of Revelation is the one in which our Lord Jesus promises a blessing upon those who take the time to read it, understand it and obey the truths found in it. This book is a Testimony from Christ Himself, not from the Apostle John. The Apostle John was only the faithful penman who wrote down these things for Jesus to give us hope, instruction in righteousness, and to unmask Satan's deceiving schemes in the human affairs of this world. All through the Bible you will read, in the beginning of the first chapter of each book, the name of the faithful writer who wrote the book under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, such as the book of Isaiah, or Jeremiah, or the Gospels. However, Jesus, speaking about the book of Revelation, says: "The Revelation of JESUS CHRIST" Most of the prophecies of this ancient book, written about 95 AD, have already come to pass. In this volume, we will only study the prophecies that concern us today. We will learn about the three great powers that Lucifer will use to cause the whole world to unite in our day, under one banner. These three great powers we will learn about from the prophecies are the Roman Catholic Church, The Illuminati, and American Protestantism. It will be these three powers that will bring Lucifer's great Conspiracy to its final stage. To begin this study, we must turn to Revelation Chapter 17, and study it in detail. Here is the Prophecy: "And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee the iudgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters: With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been mode drunk with the wine of her fornication. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness; and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication: And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. AND I SAW THE WOMAN DRUNKEN WITH THE BLOOD OF THE SAINTS, AND WITH THE BLOOD OF THE MARTYRS OF JESUS: and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration. And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, AND OF THE BEAST THAT CARRIED HER, WHICH HATH THE SEVEN HEADS AND TEN HORNS. The beast that thou sawest was, and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is. And here is a mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth. And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition. And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beest. These have one mind, and shall give their power unto the beast. These SHALL MAKE WAR WITH THE LAMB AND THE LAMB SHALL OVERCOME THEM: FOR HE IS LORD OF LORDS, AND KING OF KINGS: AND THEY THAT ARE WITH HIM ARE CALLED, AND CHOSEN, AND FAITHFUL. AND HE SAITH UNTO ME, THE WATERS WHICH THOU SAWEST, WHERE THE WHORE SITTETH, ARE PEOPLES, AND MULTITUDES, AND TONGUES. AND THE TEN HORNS WHICH THOU SAWEST UPON THE BEAST THESE SHALL HATE THE WHORE, AND SHALL MAKE HER DESOLATE AND NAKED, AND SHALL EAT HER FLESH, AND BURN HER WITH FIRE. FOR GOD HATH PUT IT IN THEIR HEARTS TO FULFIL HIS WILL, AND TO AGREE, AND GIVE THEIR KINGDOM UNTO THE BEAST UNTIL THE WORDS OF GOD SHALL BE FULFILLED. AND THE WOMAN WHICH THOU SAWEST IS THAT GREAT CITY WHICH REIGNETH OVER THE KINGS OF THE EARTH." Now, let's back up and read a few verses at a time and search the Scriptures for the interpretation. Verses 1-5 picture a lewd woman with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication and she also has made the other inhabitants of the earth drunk with the wine of her fornication. This woman was seen in vision as sitting on a scarlet beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. The lewd woman was also arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, decked with gold and precious stones, pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication. And on her forehead was a name written - MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. The Scriptures themselves will show that this is not a real woman here described, but a symbol of the astrological religion of Sun worship that we have been studying about. However, there is somewhat of a parallel between this prophecy of this lewd woman and the real life of Semiramis who was the wife of Ninus (Nimrod). It was Semiramis who in history was worshipped in Egypt as Isis, or to the Babylonians as Ishtar, or to the Israelites as Ashtaroth, or in India Isi, or in Rome Cybele, or in Mexico Coatlicue, All the crafts of the occult can be traced back to this evil family of Cush (Hermes), Nimrod (Baal) and Semiramis (Ishtar). As Scripture states, Nimrod was the son of Cush who was the son of Ham, who was the son of Noah. Genesis 10:6,8. Now, in the legends of Nimrod, who was Ninus to the Assyrians, it is stated by ancient historians that Ninus, the husband of Semiramis [1], was killed as we have already seen, by a rival god, and cut into several pieces. Both the Babylonian god Tammuz and the Egyptian god Osiris were worshipped as the personification of the Sun-god. And, according to their legends, were killed by a rival god. In the Babylonian version, Tammuz was killed by a "certain king" for trying to introduce the religion of Astrology. Who could this "certain king" be that killed this ringleader of apostasy? Who opposed the worship of the God of Noah and Shem? Hislop says these legends of Tammuz' and Osiris' deaths can be traced through history to Nimrod and Shem, Shem is the Biblical lineage from which Christ was born and Shem in the Egyptian myth was the rival god named Set or Seth or Typhon [2], who was worshipped as the god Shom by the people of India [3]. So you see, all the legends of the Sun-gods can be traced back to the Babylonian religions. Hence, Bacchus to the Phoenicians, Hercules to the Assyrians, Dionysus to the Grecians, Attis to the Romans, Krishna to the Indians of India, Quetzalcoatl to the Mexicans, Balder to the Scandinavians, Pan-ku to the Chinese and Pan to both the ancient and modern Witchcraft cults, are just photocopies of Nimrod as we have already stated many times. The various goddesses throughout the world also derived out of the legends of the first goddess, Semiramis, who was the wife of Ninus (Nimrod). It was Semiramis (Ishtar to the Babylonians), who was a witch herself, that established the Rite of Sacred Prostitution that witches today call "The Great Rite." Semiramis was worshipped as the Great Mother Goddess, the Queen of Heaven, the goddess of all impurity, the goddess of Love and Sex, and also of War, and as Athena, the goddess of Wisdom. It appears that it is this version of the Greek goddess who is standing on top of the rotunda of the Capitol of the United States. Another tradition in Greece has this pagan goddess as Aphrodite, the goddess of exciting sexual desires. During the French Revolution, which we will study later, the revolutionaries banned all Christianity and burned Bibles. The worship of God was forbidden and the Jacobin Clubs had legislated within the laws of their new government that the Christian God of the Bible was a false god. In place of the Bible and the worship of Jesus they exalted this same goddess who was also known as the goddess of Reason and of Liberty. This same goddess is standing in New York Harbor as a gift from France. Now, in Revelation 17:2, we read the following: "With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication." What is the interpretation according to the Bible the meaning behind "wine of her fornication?" Turn in your Bibles to Ezekiel the sixteenth chapter and we will learn the interpretation thereof. In Ezekiel 16:1-14 the Lord symbolically describes his chosen people as an unwanted baby, on whom the Lord took pity and raised up into a beautiful, prosperous kingdom. However, when the Israelites turned their backs on the Lord and turned to idolatry, the Lord called Israel a "harlot." "But thou didst trust in thine own beauty, and playedst the HARLOT because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy FORNICATIONS on every one that passed by; his it was." Ezekiel 16:15. Before the Israelites went into the Promised Land, the Lord told Moses to instruct them: "I am the Lord your God. After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do: neither shall ye walk in their ordinances." Leviticus 18:2,3. However, anyone who has ever read the Old Testament has learned that the Israelites mingled with the people of Canaan and learned their customs. They took the heathen customs and mingled them with the sacred things of God. Even before they entered into the land of Canaan, when Moses went up Mount Sinai to receive the Ten Commandments, the Israelites fell into idolatry [3]. This may also be seen when Joshua died, Judges 2:8-10. After Joshua died, we read in Judges 2:11-14 the following: "And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served Baalim. And they forsook the Lord God of their Fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger. And they forsook the Lord, and served Baal and Ashtaroth. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies." The problem of the pagan influences penetrating into the ranks of Israel was because the leaders of Israel allowed pagan customs, little by little, to creep in among the sacred things of God. In Ezekiel 22:26 we read: "Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy things: they have put no difference between the holy and profaned, neither have they shewed difference between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them." It was the mingling of pagan philosophies within the sacred ordinances and commandments of our Lord that led Israel to finally abandon the worship of the True God, and bow down and worship images that were symbols of the cosmic gods of Astrology. And so is it today. The whole world has been intoxicated with "the wine of her fornication" which means, deceived by the seducing religion and doctrines of the astrological religion of Sun-worship. You might ask how that could be. Well, in the book Beware Its Coming - The Antichrist 666, published by W.F.G. Inc., we read: "In the legend of the Tauric Goddess Diana, it is said that every stranger who landed on her shore was sacrificed on her altar. Have you ever wondered what the Christmas Tree has to do with the Birth of Christ? Or the ornaments you place on the tree, or the meaning of the word, 'YULETIDE?' Or where the tradition of the mistletoe came from and how it became a symbol of Christmas? Reader, they have nothing whatsoever to do with the birth of Jesus, but are some of the traditions observed to honor the birth of pagan godchild Tammuz. There is no Scriptural evidence that supports the Birth of Christ as being December 25th; but history says December 25th was kept thousands of years before the Birth of Christ, in honor of the pagan Messiah. Another name for Tammuz, the pagan god-child, was 'Baal-bereth,' which means: 'Lord of the Fir-Tree.' "The Sun-god, the Mother goddess, and her son, according to Babylonian mythology were mystically changed into trees. This is the origin of burning the Yule Log. Nimrod deified as the Sungod was symbolized by a big fir tree stripped of all its branches and cut almost to the ground. But the great serpent which symbolized the life restorer, whose name is Aesculapius, twists itself around the dead stock and lo, at its side a young tree - a tree of an entirely different kind, which is destined never to be cut down by hostile power; even the palm tree, the well known symbol of victory. People of Aryan stock who believed that the oak tree was a symbol of Zeus or Jupiter, believed that this Branch was of Mistletoe which grew on the oak tree, and to be kissed under the mistletoe would insure fertility. The Branch was a name given to the Christ, Isaiah 11:1 - 'AND THERE SHALL COME FORTH A ROD OUT OF THE STEM OF JESSE, AND A BRANCH SHALL GROW OUT OF HIS ROOTS.' "Now take the word 'Yuletide.' The word yule is as Babylonian as Tammuz. The word yule is the Chaldee word for infant or little child, and the 25th of December was called by the pagan Anglo-Saxons,'Yule-day,' or Child's Day. The pagan Egyptians, and the Persians both observed the 25th of December as the birthday of their god. "In Germanic Mythology, they too, had a supreme god to whom they gave sacrifice. These warlike people promised their god, whose name was TIWAZ, that if he would give them victory over their enemy, they would give to their god all the spoils of the battle. Like the Babylonians, they believed their gods could transform themselves into trees. If the god answered their prayers, they took their dead victims along with the spoils of war, and dragged them to their sacred grove, and there hung them on their sacred trees. Such offerings have been recovered from the bogs in Germany. This beget the origin of hanging ornaments from the Christmas Tree. "Little sheep of the Lord's pasture, it is impossible to ignore the pagan Festival of Christmas. The World is commemorating the Birth of Christ, not Tammuz. There is an advantage during the Christmas season to preach the real Jesus of the Bible. However, we should keep ourselves from the vanities of the pagan Festival, not to mention the cost, and the deaths caused by lighted Christmas Trees. "There is, however, an opportunity during the Christmas Season with its beautiful music, to make others aware that Christ is no longer a helpless babe in a manger, but is the Saviour of the world, the King of kings, Lord of lords. Many who think the Bible and its message is foolishness can be reached during the Christmas Season where it would be almost impossible to talk to them at another time. Even the Christmas Tree can be used to teach the children a great lesson. The children should be taught that it is a historical fact that placing bulbs, tinsel, and lights on a Christmas Tree is pure pagan heathenism. "This pagan custom got its start from killing enemies and hanging their heads and their spoils from pagan sacred trees. It would not be a sin if an evergreen tree was set up in the church during the Christmas Season if it was done to be an object lesson. If the parents would take the money they spend each year on Christmas trees, bulbs, lights, and expensive presents, and give the money as an offering to advance the preaching of the Gospel, would not the Lord be pleased with such a self-sacrifice?" There are more shocking facts about pagan customs that have been adopted into Christianity that will be revealed as we continue. In the book of Job, we read: "If I beheld the Sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness; And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand: This also were an iniquity to be punished by the Judge: For I should have denied the God that is above." Job 31:26-28. Hence, the symbolic interpretation applied to this Harlot found in Revelation 17:5 (Mystery, Babylon the Great, The Mother of Harlots) is Satan's great religious system with its many various sects, that taught the world to obey the precepts of the astrological worship of the Sun, Moon, and the Stars. The Bible says in I Corinthians 10:11,12: "Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall." The records of the history of Israel are types that will repeat themselves until Christ comes. We are warned in the Bible to take heed to Israel's fall, lest we fall. It appears from Scriptures that Israel adopted all the main versions of the Babylonian idolatry in her apostasy. "Thou has also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy neighbours, great of the flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, to provoke me to anger. Behold, therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, and have diminished thine ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the will of them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, which are ashamed of thy lewd way. Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou wast unsatiable: Yea, thou hast played the unsatiable: Yea, thou hast played the HARLOT with them and yet couldest not be satisfied. Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land of Canaan unto Chaldea, and yet thou was not satisfied herewith." Ezekiel 16:26, 28. Now it is time to see from Scripture what the symbol of the Beast from the Bottomless Pit means that is carrying this Mother of Harlots. A Beast in prophecy is a symbol of a "political power" or "kingdom" as it clearly shows in Daniel 7:1-8, 17-25. Daniel saw four great beasts and the angel said: "These great beasts, which are four, ARE FOUR KINGS which shall arise out of the Earth." Daniel 7:17. As the Scriptures reveal, the symbolic beasts here represent four pagan nations that would arise in sequence taking dominion, or ruling over the whole known world at that time. These kings were recorded in history as:1.Babylonian Empire 605 BC to 539 BC, the Lion. 2.Medo-Persian Empire, 538 BC to 331 BC, the Bear. 3.Grecian Empire 331 BC to 168 BC, the Leopard, 4.Roman Empire 168 BC to 476 AD, the Dragon. When Rome fell in 476 AD, it was to have Ten Nations that would arise out of its ruins. "Thus he said, The fourth beast (Rome) shall be the FOURTH KINGDOM upon earth which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces. And the Ten Horns out of this kingdom are TEN KINGS that shall arise; and another shall rise after them; and he shall be diverse from the first, and he shall subdue three kings." Daniel 7:23,24. These Ten Nations are also recorded history now as the prophecy of Daniel predicted hundreds of years, earlier. They were the following:1.Angle-Saxons 2.Franks 3.Alemanni 4.Lombards 5.0strogoths 6.Visigoths 7.Burgundians 8.Vandals 9.Suevi 10.Heruli. After these Ten Nations would become history, Daniel the Prophet foretold another Little Horn (Nation) was to come up among these Ten Nations and would war with them and would actually destroy three of the Ten Nations. They would be rooted out of that area called Europe today. And, this is precisely what happened. This Little Horn (Nation) destroyed the nations of the Heruli in 493 AD, the Vandals in 534 AD, and the last of the three, the Ostrogoths, lost their last battle with this Little Horn (Nation) in 538 AD and were eventually driven out of Italy by 554 AD. However, it was in 538 AD that paved the way for this little Nation to take dominion of that area that would become Europe. In Daniel 7:8 we read about this little horn: "I considered the horns and behold, there came up among them another LITTLE HORN, before whom there were THREE OF THE FIRST HORNS PLUCKED UP BY THE ROOTS: and, Behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things." It is a historical fact that the Roman Catholic Church destroyed the nations of the Heruli, Vandals, and the Ostrogoths. Although it was not the Papacy who actually did the fighting, it was the Papacy who hired mercenaries to destroy them. For more facts about the history of the prophecy of Daniel the 7th Chapter, may we suggest you order a copy of Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666 from our catalogue which is found in the back of this book. Now in Daniel 7:25 it lists four things that the Little Horn (Papacy) was predicted in prophecy to do after destroying the Heruli, Vandals and the Ostrogoths. "And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shall wear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times and laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time, times and the dividing of time." To see how the Papacy has fulfilled the first prediction Daniel described here in 7:25, all one has to do is to pick up a local newspaper and read the words the Papacy speaks when they exalt their present Pope. He is hailed as the Vicar of God, Christ in the Flesh. Is this not blasphemy? All one needs to do to see how the Papacy would wear out the saints of the most high, is to pick up an encyclopedia and read about the inquisitions during the Medieval Age. One had merely to be accused of heresy against papal doctrine or authority, and this was enough to burn at the stake. It was the Papacy, not Christ, or His Apostles that changed the original day of worship, the Seventh Day, into the holy day of the Sun-god called today Sunday, the first day of the week. We will study this change in more detail later on. Now coming back to the last part of Daniel's prophecy of the Papacy as the Little Horn, Daniel said the Little Horn would continue "until a time, times and the dividing of time." To figure the amount of time the Papacy would commit blasphemy against the Most High, to wear out the saints of the Most High, and would think to change times and laws, we need to read Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:6: "After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even forty days, EACH DAY FOR A YEAR, shall ye bear your iniquities, EVEN FORTY YEARS, and ye shall know my breach of promise." In Jewish prophecy a day is counted as a year, as shown above. Now in Daniel 7:25, the religious dictatorship of the Papacy was to be for a "time, times and the dividing of time." A time in Jewish prophecy represents 360 days of the Jewish calendar. So a day in prophecy equals also one year (Ezekiel 4:6), and since a time equals 360 days in one Jewish year, Times would be two years or 720 days. Dividing of time equals half a year, or half of 360 days, which would be 180 days. Now in Jewish prophecy a day is also counted as one year as in Ezekiel 4:6 and Numbers 14:34. Here is a better way of explaining this: TIME = 360 days or one year in prochecy TIMES = 720 days or two years in prophecy 1/2 TIME = 180 days or 1/2 year in prophecy TIME=360 TIMES=720 1/2 TIME=180 with a total of 3.1/2 YEARS = 1260 The starting point for the time, times, and the dividing of time, or the 1260 years of the Papal Religious Dictatorship would be when the last of the Three Kingdoms was destroyed. This Last Kingdom was the Ostrogoths. The decisive battle between the papal forces and the Ostrogoths was in 538 AD. It was then that the Papacy began to claim they were the "Corrector of Heretics"; hence, this began the tyrannical religious dictatorship of the Roman Catholic Church [5]. It was not until the year 1798 AD, that the Papacy completely lost control to dictate its authority to the world. General Berthier from France, during the Napoleonic Wars, was sent to the Vatican in 1798 to seize Pope Plus VI, and he was dethroned and banished into exile where he later died." From the year 538 AD to 1798 AD is actually 1260 years, as the prophecy of Daniel predicted. Here is a diagram of the complete prophecy of Daniel the 7th chapter. The diagram covers a complete picture of the kingdoms of the world that were foretold from Babylon's 605 BC takeover of the known world, down through the centuries to the time when Pope plus IV was dethroned. Babylonian Medo-Persian Grecian Empire Roman Empire Papacy 605-539 BC 539-331 BC 331-168 BC 168 BC-476 AD 538 - 1798 AD Now that we have learned what a beast is symbolic of in Scripture, let us again examine the 17th chapter of Revelation. As stated before, Babylon the Great represents ALL religions that teach Babylonlan doctrines derived from the astrological worship of the Sun-god. This covers all the pagan religions and ALL Christian churches that have mingled heathenism with the sacred things of God. "Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils; ye cannot be partakers of the Lord's table, and of the table of devils." 1.Corinthians 10:21. Now it's time to look at the Beast that ascends out of the Bottomless Pit, that the false religious systems of the World are riding on. In Revelation 17:7-18, we read the following: "And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns. The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is. And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth. And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space. And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition. And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast. These have one mind and shall give their power and strength unto the beast. THESE SHALL MAKE WAR WITH THE LAMB, and the LAMB SHALL OVEACOME THEM: FOR HE IS LORD OF LORDS, AND KING OF KINGS: AND THEY THAT ARE WITH HIM ARE CALLED, AND FAITHFUL. And he said unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues. And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire. For God hath put in their hearts to fulfill his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled. And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth." This prophecy, symbolizing a confederacy of false religious systems and political powers uniting against Jesus (the Lamb), and His people, is for us who live in these closing days of this world's history. The Key that unlocks this prophecy and shows who this beast is that ascends out of the Bottomless Pit, and when it makes its appearance, is in Revelation the 11th chapter. We will compare prophecies of Revelation the 11th chapter with Revelation the 17th chapter. In Revelation the 11th chapter we read the following: "And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar and them that worship therein. But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not: for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months. And I will give power unto my TWO WITNESSES, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of earth. And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed. These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy: and have power over the waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will. And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit SHALL MAKE WAR AGAINST THEM, AND SHALL OVERCOME THEM, AND KILL THEM. And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified. And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies THREE DAYS AND AN HALF: and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves. And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth. And after THREE DAYS AND AN HALF THE SPIRIT OF LIFE from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them. And they heard a great Voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them. And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven. The second woe is past; and behold, the third woe cometh quickly. And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, THE KINGDOMS OF THIS WORLD ARE NOW BECOME THE KINGDOMS OF OUR LORD, AND OF HIS CHRIST; AND HE SHALL REIGN FOR EVER AND EVER. And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, Saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art, and was, and art to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned. And the notions were angry, and thy wrath is come and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest DESTROY THEM WHICH DESTROY THE EARTH. And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail." This prophecy will take us from the time the Papacy began to lose its controlling power to dictate to the world until the Second Coming of Jesus. In Revelation 11:1-5, it says: "And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and they that worship therein. But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not: for it is given unto the Gentiles and the holy city shall they tread under foot FORTY AND TWO MONTHS. And I will give power unto my TWO WITNESSES, AND THEY SHALL PROPHESY A THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND THREESCORE DAYS CLOTHED IN SACKCLOTH. These are the TWO OLIVE TREES, and the TWO CANDLESTICKS standing before God of earth. And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth and devoureth their enemies: And if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed." Again we see this time period of 1260 days, which in prophecy represents 1260 years (Numbers 14:24; Ezekiel 4:6). The periods of 1260 days and 42 months are the same. The ancient Jewish calendar has 360 days in a year and 30 days in a month. Forty two months equals 1260 days (years in Bible prophecy). 42 months x 30 days = 1260 years This prophecy is the same time period we studied in Daniel 7:25, the time, times and dividing of time, that the Papacy was foretold to "speak greet words against the Most High, wear out the saints of the Most High, think to change times and laws." This time period, as we examined, started in the year 538 AD and reached up through the centuries until 1798 AD when the French army seized Pope Plus VI, and sent him into exile where he died. Even though another Pope was reinstated soon afterwards, the Papacy lost its control to run the affairs of the world. During this time of papal persecution the Holy Scriptures were kept from the ordinary people. The Papacy claimed only priests could interpret the Scriptures, and when the Scriptures were read it was usually given in Latin, which the great masses didn't understand. The suppression of the Holy Scriptures by the Papacy was also foretold in the symbols of the two witnesses, who were also symbolized as two olive trees, or two candlesticks. "...and I will give power unto my TWO WITNESSES, and they shall prophesy a THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND THREESCORE DAYS (1260 years) clothed in sackcloth. These are the TWO TREES, AND THE TWO CANDLESTICKS STANDING BEFORE GOD of the earth." Revelation 11:3.4. The most popular opinion found among the Doctors of Theology is that the two witnesses are two prophets that shall come during the Great Tribulation Period, while some say that this prophecy of the two witnesses has a two-fold meaning. However, the Scriptures and recorded history show that the prophecy about the two witnesses has indeed come to pass. Jesus our Lord said: "And this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a WITNESS UNTO ALL NATIONS and then shall the end come." Matthew 24:14. The Gospel taught from the Scriptures was to be a witness to all nations about the loving and saving power of Jesus Christ. It gives its hearers correction in right doing. It gives its believers hope for the future, and the promise of forgiveness for past sins through the sacrifice of Christ's death. "And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the Devil, who are taken captive by him at his will." 2.Timothy 2:26. However, when the Roman Catholic Church became a religious dictatorship, the Scriptures were hidden from the vast population, and catechism was substituted instead of Bible study. The Gospel of the Bible became mingled with the pagan philosophies of Sun worship. The worship of the pagan Mother goddess became the idol of the Roman Catholic Church through the worship of the Virgin Mary.' When the Gospel became perverted through Romanism, God always had a remnant people who were teaching the True Faith during the 1260 years the Papacy cast the Truth to the ground. These faithful followers of Jesus were hunted down by papal authorities as heretics and criminals. They were tortured on the rack, burned at the stake; and it mattered not what age or sex, they were butchered in the name of Heaven. When those faithful servants who proclaimed the sacred truths from the Old and New Testaments were tortured, murdered, thrown in dungeons and had to flee for their lives from the papal Inquisitors, the True Faith was forced to go underground. The Gospel set forth in the Old and New Testament that had to be preached into all the world for a witness to all nations before Christ would come again, was forced into a state of obscurity. This is what is meant by Revelation 11:3, "And they shall prophesy a THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND THREESCORE DAYS CLOTHED IN SACKCLOTH." Sackcloth was worn by the Israelites in times of trouble and grief. (2.Samuel 3:31, 1.Chronicles 21:15, 16; Isaiah 37:1). The sackcloth here mentioned in Revelation 11:3 was to mourn the supression of the Old and New Testament by the papal authorities during the 1260 years. The two witnesses, the two olive trees, or the two candlesticks represented the light the Scripture gives its reader. The Olive Tree was the Israelites' source of oil to anoint their kings and priests. Oil has often, in Biblical language, been a symbol of the Holy Spirit. See Zechariah 4:1-14. The Candlestick represents the illumination a searcher of Truth receives in the heart when he makes the Word of God his standard to measure Truth to live by. "Thy word is a LAMP unto my feet, and a light unto my path." Psalms 119:105. "All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness." 2.Timothy 3:16 "And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouths, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed. These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy. And have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will." Revelation 11:5,6. This prophecy is a parallel with that of Jesus in Revelation 22:18,19. "For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of this prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the Holy City, and from the things which are written in this book." This will be the fate of ALL those who tamper with the sacred Scripture. These warnings were given by God to warn men against changing or adding to anything written in the Holy Scriptures. The Scriptures reveal God's plan for man from the beginning of creation until Christ's Second Coming, and also how he will provide for man after this Age. The Scriptures were given for man as a guide throughout his life to lead him through the gates of the New Jerusalem where he will dwell with God himself. (Revelation 21:1-4). "And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit shall make war against them and shall overcome them, and kill them. And their dead bodies shall lie in the streets of the great city, which SPIRITUALLY is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified." Revelation 11:7. This beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit is often confused with the Papacy, but this is not a prophecy of the Papacy since this prophecy starts near the end of the 1260 years. For 1260 years the Papacy did exactly what was foretold in Daniel 7:8, 23-25. However, the Papacy never made war on the Scriptures, she just locked them up in an unknown tongue. This Beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit is another political power that was to take the place of the Papacy in France, that Satan would use to try to destroy the word of God. Ellen G. White in her multimillion seller, The Great Controversy, says that this beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit is not the Papacy, but ANOTHER NEW manifestation of satanic power: "The period when the two witnesses were to prophesy clothed in sackcloth, ended in 1798. As they were approaching the termination of their work in obscurity, war was to be made upon them by the power represented as 'the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit.' In many of the nations of Europe the powers that ruled in church and state had for centuries been controled by Satan through the medium of the papacy. But here is brought to view a new manifestation of satanic power." Ellen White goes on to say: "According to the words of the prophet, then, a little before the year 1798 some power of satanic origin and character would rise to make war upon the Bible. And in the land where the testimony of God's two witnesses should thus be silenced, there would be manifest the atheism of the Pharoah and the licentiousness of Sodom. "This prophecy has received a most exact and striking fulfillment in the history of France. During the Revolution, in 1793, 'the world for the first time heard an assembly of men, born and educated in civilization, and assuming the right to govern one of the finest of the European nations, uplift their united voice to deny the most solemn truth which man's soul receives, and renounce unanimously the belief and worship of a Deity." The Great Controversy, White, Pacific Press Publishing, 1939, pp. 239, 240. The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit is the santanic force that caused the French Revolution and the overthrow of papal christianity shortly before the Papacy lost Pope Plus VI as its religious dictator. It is extremely important that the reader have some knowledge of the French Revolution to unmask this same satanic force working now in our time that will eventually involve the whole world. This Secret Revolutionary Force that had its beginnings in the French Revolution is just another tool Lucifer has, and is using to further his plan to establish his eventual total Rule in this world. This Secret Revolutionary Force is predicted by Scripture to unite with the Mother of Harlots, which is a symbol of the Roman Catholic Church, Apostate Protestantism, and all other religious movements that teach Babylonian Illuminism, or Spirtualism. This Confederacy between the false religions and the political powers of this world is just history repeating itself. It is another attempt to unite man under one banner leaving the Lord out, as it was in the days of Nimrod. We need to look inside the history of the French Revolution and study the subversive groups that actually caused the Revolt. History books tell us that the French Revolution first began in 1787 or 1789 [8] depending on which book you read. However, it was actually planned by Dr. Adam Weishaupt and the House of Rothschild almost 20 years before the Revolution took place. Dr. Adam Weishaupt produced the blue print for it, while the House of Rothschild provided the money. This Apostle of Lucifer, Adam Weishaupt was born a Jew, converted to Catholicism, then turned to Witchcraft, where he became an expert, and founded another sect of the Illuminati. This sect of illuminati was founded May 1st, 1776 [9]. Like Freemasonry, the Illuminati is a Luciferian movement to preserve and promote the ancient Black Arts of Babylonian and Druid Witchcraft. Its goals are to destroy Christianity and all world governments, and then unite them under a one world government whose ruler is Lucifer. In the Bible, our Lord chose a priestly Order of Israelites to preserve the sacred things of God. In the Old Testament they were known as the Levites Numbers 1:47, 54. The whole Nation of Israel was to be a nation of priests, but because of her idolatry, our Lord only chose the children of Levi [10]. The Levites were in charge of the tabernacle of God and all that pertained to it. No one was allowed to set-up, move, or perform any service of the tabernacle, but the Levites. Those who even touched the Ark of the Covenant, other than a Levite, would suffer death. Like the Levite had his ministry for the chosen people, so had the Prophets of God. If any man claimed to be sent from God and predicted things to come, but they didn't happen, this was to be a sign to the Israelites that this man was not of God, and they were to kill him for deceiving the people. Just as God foretold the future and worked miracles among His people, so does Lucifer have his system of counterfeiting the power of God. And, just as God chose a people that would preserve and promote His Mystery of Godliness (1.Timothy 3:16), so has Lucifer chosen a people that would preserve and promote his Mystery of Iniquity (2.Thessalonians 2:7). One such priestly order that preserved the ancient Black Arts of Witchcraft was the Druids. There are modern day Orders of this system of Witchcraft. As the Levites and Prophets were to Israel, so were the Druids to the Celtic peoples. The Celts believed that they were a supernatural people from outer space, and their magical powers were to be preserved through their descendants through the centuries. Much modern English and American Witchcraft is modeled from the pagan religious rites and magic of the Druids, who borrowed their crafts from the Egyptian Sun worship, which came from the Babylonians and Assyrians. Sacrifices were prominent in Celtic ritual; human and animal sacrifices look place at their sacred festivals. The Druids held a dominant position in Celtic society for it was they who invoked the magical powers to ensure prosperity and success. Like the American Indian Witchdoctor, the Druids often fell into trances in order to forecast events." The modern fraternities of Freemasonry, Rosicrucians, Golden Dawn, Wicca, Church of America, Gardinarian Brotherhood, Church of All Worlds, and Process Church of the Final Judgment (of which Charles Manson was a member), are only a few of the multitudes of Witchcraft groups operating today behind the public eye, preserving and promoting ancient Witchcraft. However, it was this Witchcraft school called the illuminati of Bavaria that was predicted to make open, avowed war on the Bible through the "political world." This world power, symbolized as the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit, was predicted to destroy the Bible (Two Witnesses) in the street of a city that is called (spiritually) Sodom and Egypt, "where also our Lord was crucified." Revelation 11:7.8. This is not Jerusalem, as it has often been interpreted, but Paris, France. During the end of papal supremacy in the 1700's, Adam Weishaupt began to write down his plans to destroy all governments and religions. Atheism was to be used as a tool to destroy the Roman Catholic Church which then was the controlling power in Europe. Adam Weishaupt's revolutionary force was first launched under the name of the Perfectibilists (Gesellschaft der Perfectibilisten), which posed as a political movement to destroy tyranny and ignorance, and further the cause of Reason, Freedom and moral virtue [12 ]. Adam Weishaupt was a professor of Canon Law at Ingolstadt, and he also was an ex-Jesuit priest. Posing at first as a religious reformer and a liberal in politics, he attracted many to his political movement, which was also known as Republicanism [13]. He adopted the Jesuits' system of espionage [14], introduced Witchcraft to his followers, and developed a fraternity within his political movement that was akin to Freemasonry. After he formed his organization, with financial backing from the House of Rothschild [15], he adopted the name Illuminati. They also became known as "Free Thinkers," "The Enlightened Ones," or "The Enlightenment," names given before Weishaupt's time to the 17th century French writers with an atheistic, anti-Christian slant [16]. In Germany, before May 1st, 1776, they were the German Rationalists, or Humanists, They, too, promoted Atheism and openly attacked Christianity and all religions as false, foolish and weird [17]. Adam Weishaupt taught his disciples that the illuminati are the only members of the human race who are truly enlightened and know "what it's all about." Weishaupt had his followers believing that they were to be the cream of the intelligentsia, or the only people with the mental capacity, the knowledge, the insight and understanding necessary to govern the world and bring peace [18]. However, only a few of his chosen members actually know Weishaupt personally, and he was regarded by those who had not seen him almost as a god [19]. Gerald B. Winrod, D.D., in his booklet, "Communism Prophecy History America," compiled documentive proof of how Adam Weishaupt cleverly concealed his identity and became the most powerful figure of his day. Winrod explains how Weishaupt set in motion forces that actually destroyed millions of lives, and left his mark of evil to be felt in all future generations without even being heard of by most people. Winrod on page 45 of his book quotes from a letter that Adam Weishaupt wrote to an intimate friend: "My circumstances necessitate that I should remain hidden from most of the members as long as I live. I am obliged to do everything through five or six persons." On another occasion he said: "...one must show how easy it would be for one clever head to direct hundreds of thousands of men." Again he wrote: "I have two immediately below me into which I breathe my whole spirit, and each of these two has again two others, and so on. In this way I can set a thousand men in motion and on fire in the simplest manner, and in this way one must impart orders and operate on politics." Weishaupt recruited into his ranks as many young men of wealth and position as possible. Within four or five years Weishaupt's Illuminati became very powerful and even had his members directing the affairs of Germany. Weishaupt's goal was to hide the sciences of Witchcraft behind philanthropy, destroy Christianity with humanism (atheism), then set up a One World Government. In Des Griffin's book, Fourth Reich of the Rich, he shows the outline plan of Weishaupt's World Revolution that he hoped to produce by these following statements:1. Abolition of all ordered Governments 2. Abolition of Private Property 3. Abolition of all Inheritance 4. Abolition of Patriotism 5. Abolition of all Religion 6. Abolition of the Family 7. Creation of a World Government [20]. Weishaupt, who was only 28 when he founded the Order of the Illuminati on May 1st, 1776, did not make much progress until he met a high ranking Freemason named Baron Von Knigge. Von Knigge was not only a high ranking Freemason, but he also had been admitted as a Master of most of the Secret Societies of his day. Von Knigge was, like Weishaupt and all Masters of these Secret Societies, an expert occultist." To spread his Order and give the Illuminati higher influence in the world, and because Freemasonry is akin to Illuminism, Weishaupt connected with the Masonic Institution. He was initiated in 1777 into Freemasonry in a Lodge at Munich [22] that he planned to use to promote his world revolutionary ideas. Baron Von Knigge joined Weishaupt's Order in 1780 [23], and soon became a leader, dividing with Adam Weishaupt the control and direction of the Order. All initiates of the Illuminati were required to take an oath to secrecy and bind themselves to perpetual silence, unshakable loyalty, and submission to the Order. Like Freemasonry, only a few top men within their organization actually understood their true goals. The world accepts Freemasonry as a Great Benevolent Society, teaching the highest possible degree of morality and virtue. Since Freemasonry enjoyed prestige and honour, Adam Weishaupt and Baron Von Knigge planned a world take-over by using the Fraternal Order of Freemasonry. Their plan was to penetrate into the high levels of the Order, then take control in directing the affairs of the nations into an eventual One World Government. However, since papal Christianity was both Church and State, and had been the dominating power that Satan used to control the affairs of the world in Weishaupt's time, Satan was making ready an even worse satanical influence that would gradually unite all paganism, false Christianity and all governments of the world, under one banner. Weishaupt's first step was, however, to get control of the International Order of Freemasonry. In order to gain control of the Order of Freemasonry, Weishaupt and Baron Von Knigge tried to sell the leaders of Freemasonry on the idea that their Order of the Illuminati had a higher, much older and more mysterious system than any of the higher degrees of Masonry. In its internal organization, the Order of the Illuminati was divided into three great classes: (1) The Nursery (2) Symbolic Freemasonry (3) The Mysteries [24]. Adam Weishaupt's plan for world take-over was to operate under cover as long as possible, and when the gullible world finally found out it would be too late to stop them. The Illuminati was to be a Secret Society within the Secret Society of the Freemasons. And, to stay hidden from the vast population, Adam Weishaupt and his co-conspirators selected for themselves code names, such as Spartacus for Weishaupt, Von Knigge became Philo, and Herr Von Zwack was called Cato [25]. The Illuminati also tried to hide their location as they traveled in different countries spreading their poison. They did this by using code names to communicate where they were. For instance, Ingolstadt, Germany, where their organization originated, was given the fictitious name of Eleusis; Austria was Egypt, Munich was called Athens, and Vienna was Rome. The Illuminati invented its own calendar and the names of the months were also given code names, such as Dimeh for January, and Bemeh for February [26]. Because of Martin Luther's rejection of the Roman Catholic Church in 1517, and the corruption and strife within the Roman Catholic Church itself, the Papacy lost a great deal of its authority to dictate to the world. Before Adam Weishaupt formed his Order of Illuminati in 1776, Free Thinking or the Encyclopedists, were already preaching a philosophy against the tyranny and fanaticism of the Roman Catholic Church. One such voice heard in the third quarter of the 18th century was a French author, philosopher and apostle of Free Thought (Liberty) named Voltaire (1694-1778). Even though the Roman Catholic Church lost much of its power before 1798 when Pope Plus VI was dethroned [27], Voltaire still lived in an age when the press did not exist, thought was not free; and men were not equal before the Civil Law. Although professing belief in a Supreme Being, or a god, he denied the existence of Jesus Christ and the authority of the Bible [28]. He became a staunch opposer of papal Christianity and helped to promote the Encyclopedis ou Dictionnaire Raisonne des Sciences, des Arts et des Metier (28 vols. 1751-1772; Supplement 5 vols. 1776-7 table analytique, 2 vols. 1780), to which he was a contributor, and which is known to us today as the Encyclopedia. Like Weishaupt, Voltaire, whose real name was jean Francois Arouet [29], was educated by the Jesuits, but later turned against Catholicism and helped promote the philosophy of Enlightenment (Illuminism) to combat papal Christianity. From the Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology, Baldwin, we will read where the philosophy of the Encyclopedists and that of the Illuminists became fused into the same movement working to cause the French Revolution: "For the Encyclopedia was more than a great dictionary of sciences, arts, and trades; it was conceived in the spirit OF THE ILLUMINATION MOVEMENT, and it carried the PRINCIPLES, AS WELL AS THE RESULTS, OF THE NEW THINKING INTO THE CULTURE OF THE TIME, THUS IT BECAME AT ONCE A STOREHOUSE OF INFORMATION AND A REVOLUTIONARY FORCE." Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology, Baldwin, The Macmillan Company, p. 322. There was an army of writers used by Lucifer in the 18th century to poison the minds of the French people against Christianity as a whole nation. Voltaire once boastingly said: "I am weary of hearing people repeat that twelve men established the Christian religion. I will PROVE that one man may suffice to overthrow it" [30]. Actually the ideas of the Enlightenment (illuminati) was a continuation of the Renaissance, that was borrowed from the Greek philosopher Plato (427-347 BC). Weishaupt's idealism was borrowed also from such writers in the 17th century as Descartes and Bayle in France, Grotius in Holland, Leibnitz in Germany, Locks in England [31]. In the early 18th century, writers such as Newton and Hume in England, Diderot, and D'Alembert, like Voltaire, can all be credited with contributing to this philosophical movement which led to the founding of this Secret Revolutionary Society called the illuminati [32]. In the United States, Benjamin Franklin, who knew Voltaire, was a leading figure in the Enlightenment. And, ironically enough, the ideas of this movement formed the background to the Declaration of independence. It was our Lord, however, that took this confusion and molded it into a protective shield against both civil and religious persecution, Now coming back to the prophecy about the illuminati making avowed war on the Bible (Two Witnesses), we read in Revelation 11:9-12: "And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and on half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves. And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth. And after THREE DAYS AND AN HALF THE SPIRIT OF LIFE FROM GOD entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them. And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them." There may have been many minor reasons why France became a habitation of Atheists during the French Revolution with its 3.1/2 year "Reign of Terror," however, it actually began because of Roman Catholic suppression of the Scriptures. Christ was not preached as set forth in the Gospel. It was just the opposite. Jesus was misrepresented among the vast multitudes in France, which led to Christianity being prohibited by state law. Because of the false presentation of the Gospel by the Papacy, the suppression of the Scriptures, the tyranny and fanaticism of the Papacy, an army of atheists was able to gain sympathy for their cause, and the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit was able to make war on the Bible (Two Witnesses) and overcome it. Here we find the reason the Papacy lost its dictatorial power. This set the stage for not only destroying Christianity in France at that era of time, but also set the stage for the forces of France to march into Vatican City and dethrone the Pope when Napoleon came on the scene after the Revolution. Writers have hailed the French Revolution as the dawning of a new era, but it actually was the birth of another terrible deception of the Seven Headed Dragon (Lucifer) to destroy millions of human lives. When Lucifer saw that the Papacy's power was coming to an end as predicted in Daniel 7:25, he simply raised up another movement to destroy man that would continue until the Papacy's power is restored as predicted in Revelation 13:3 which we will later study. Now, the Illuminati movement that shall make war on the Lamb (but the Lamb shall overcome them, Revelation 17:14) is not to become world wide until the second beast of Revelation 13:11-17 begins to emerge and speak as a dragon. This, as we will learn later, is the power of Apostate Protestantism in America. But before we can understand how illuminism, Catholicism, and Apostate Protestantism shall go forth into the world to unite them against the Real Jesus of the Bible, we need to know what name the Illuminati are operating under today. As stated before, Adam Weishaupt connected with the Masonic Lodge in 1777. He posed at first among the Freemasons as a reformer in religion and a liberal in politics. Because Freemasonry was also anti-papal, Weishaupt's anti-papacy policies in Germany became popular immediately. Weishaupt enrolled no less than two thousand names upon the Illuminati registers in Germany. Among those were some of the most distinguished aristocrats of that Country [33]. It is quite apparent that the men of the Order of Freemasonry that joined Weishaupt's Illuminati, had no idea of what trap they had fallen into. Very few Masons understood what Adam Weishaupt's plans were in the beginning, as very few Masons today understand what their own organization teaches. Weishaupt penetrated into the Freemasonry organization with all the shrewdness and subtlety that he learned from once being a Jesuit priest. Some historians have written that the French Revolution was not premeditated. Some will say that the French Revolution emerged only from a political crisis that coincided with an economic breakdown. This economic breakdown generated unrest and riots which even the French army could not quell. It was this, some historian will argue, that made the people of France determined to cause a social change, and overthrow their country. What these historians say is true in part only. The parts of history some historians fail to see, or leave out, is actually what caused the people in the first place to accept this spirit (of Illuminism). As stated before, it was the suppression of the Bible, the fanatical oppression of the Roman Catholic Church, that actually generated the spark that eventually led the French people to reject Christianity and publicly burn their Bibles. History records that the events that led up to the French Revolution were caused by anarchy. The citizens became divided into a medley of hate factions that were struggling for power, trying to exterminate each other [34]. But before this it was the Roman Catholic Church, who slaughtered French citizens by thousands, that kindled a hatred for Christianity. The murderous character of the Papacy was seen in France. In 1572 AD Roman Catholics tried in one sweep to murder all of the Protestants in France. This is known in history as the St. Bartholomew Massacre. Within the space of one month, 60000 Protestants are said to have been slain in France. All told there were over 75000. The Cardinal of Lorraine gave 1000 crowns as a reward to the person who brought the news to the Vatican [35]. Here the reader may understand more clearly Revelation 11:8, "where also our Lord was crucified." "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Matthew 25:40. When the Papacy killed the Protestants in the streets of Paris, they also were destroying the Temple that Jesus dwelt in, and saith the Lord: "YE HAVE DONE IT UNTO ME." During the Revolution, France was reduced to a state of moral debasement similar to that of the city of Sodom in Lot's time. She also had the same spirit of Atheism within her as did the Pharoah of Egypt in Moses' day. Both the sins of Sodom (licentiousness) and of Egypt (Atheism) France was predicted to have in Revelation 11:7,8. At the closing of the 1260 years the Two Witnesses (Old and New Testaments) were to finish their testimony [36]. And it was from here that illuminism began to emerge and overcome Christianity. History calls this movement of Illuminism (Atheism) "The Jacobin CIubs" [37]. The Jacobin Clubs in France were the aristocratic terrorists who spearheaded the French Revolution, which sent King Louis XVI, on January 21st, 1793, to the guillotine. However, most historians leave out who was really giving orders to Danton, Marat, and Robespierre, the leaders of the Jacobin Clubs. It was the Jacobin Clubs that actually abolished Christianity through the National Assembly, and established the worship of the goddess of Reason, or Liberty. The name "Jacobin" derived from the name of the convent these aristocratic terrorists used to secretly plot the overthrow of King Louis XVI. The convent was called Jacobin Dominican Convent [38]. They were also known as the Society of the Friends of the Constitution, and were soon organized in every important town in France. They were the most wealthy and influential people in France. They had as many as 500,000 members at the height of the influence in 1793-1794 [38]. The truth is, this aristrocratic terrorist movement called the Jacobin Club was actually French illuminists operating under a different name. As established earlier, Adam Weishaupt became a Mason in 1777 for the sole purpose of using that organization as a tool for boring into the high levels of government by simply replacing Freemasons who already sat in these positions. With an inexhaustible talent for charlatanry, and a well planned system of espionage, Weishaupt's disciples infiltrated into the high levels of the governments in Germany, France, England, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Hungary, and Italy. However, it was Baron Von Knigge who joined the Illuminati in 1780 that gave this organization its rapid expansion, not Adam Weishaupt. Freemasons, like all Secret Societies, choose to remain obscure and do not like to attract attention. Because the Illuminati was a Secret Society within the Secret Society of Freeemasonry, even though they had penetrated into the high levels of Europe, very few indeed ever heard of them. However, shortly before the Revolution took place in France, two hard blows would land on the heads of Adam Weishaupt and his co-conspirators. The Freemasons were not long in hearing rumors about the true nature of Weishaupt's plans to capture their whole organization. When the Freemasons began to get wind of Weishaupt's true purposes, a chief council was held to examine the nature of the Illuminati by top ranking Freemasons. A conference of Masons was held in 1782 at which time Weishaupt and Von Knigge attended [40]. But it wasn't until Weishaupt and Von Knigge had a falling out that led to Von Knigge leaving the Order, that Weishaupt began to have exposure and a threat of internal strife within the illuminati. A contest between Weishaupt and Von Knigge about who was to be the Rex or King of this Secret revolutionary movement was the real motive for Von Knigge leaving it. After Von Knigge left the Illuminati, the hardest blow to Weishaupt's Luciferian Conspiracy was received in 1785. One of Weishaupt's coconspirators, named Lanze, was struck by lightning while en route from Frankfurt, Germany to deliver documents to Robespierre, the head of the Jacobin Clubs at that time. The documents that Lanze was carrying had important information about the Order of the Illuminati, and its plans of not only destroying the French government through riots and revolutions, but also governments of the world as well [41]. This is how we today have information about this beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit. All of the papers Lanze was carrying fell into the hands of the Bavarian Government, and the authorities ordered the police to raid the headquarters of the Illuminati in Germany. Adam Weishaupt had to escape for his life [42] and all documentive evidence that the Order of the illuminati was a dangerous international terrorist group was brought to the attention of many countries in Europe. However, the warnings fell on deaf ears, as they will in our day. When the Word of God was rejected, and spiritualism took its place, France fell into a degrading worship of the goddess of Reason. This period of time in history is also known as the Age of Reason, or the Reign of Terror. And interestingly enough, the Reign of Terror lasted 3.1/2 years, as predicted in Revelation 11:11: "After three days and a half (prophetic years) the Spirit of life from God entered into them, (Old and New Testaments), and they stood upon their feet." The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit was a political power that ascended out of Witchcraft, made open, avowed war on the Bible and Christianity, caused the French Revolution, and is predicted in Scripture to continue from the French Revolution, and eventually spread to every corner of the habitable globe. To point out how the same rebellious spirit of Nimrod and how his hatred towards the Lord of the Sabbath could be seen also in the Illuminati of the 18th century, Uriah Smith, in his book Daniel and the Revelation p. 285, quotes a priest of Illuminism that was a well known comedian in France at that time: "God! if you exist, ... avenge your injured name. I bid you defiance. You remain silent; you dare not launch your thunders; who, after this, will believe in your existence?" Daniel and the Revelotion, Smith, Southern Publishing Association, 1944, p. 285. In the next chapter we will continue to show this gradual Luciferian Conspiracy to overthrow Christianity and all governments of the world symbolized in Scripture as the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit (Illuminati), and how it can be traced through various names and guises starting from the French Revolution, to our present day. The anarchy that was displayed in the streets of Paris through the efforts of this Antichrist movement will be seen in this country. Ellen White, in her book Education, p. 228, saw this anarchy was soon to become a world-wide Conspiracy. She states: "At the same time anarchy is seeking to sweep away all law, not only divine, but human. The centralization of wealth and power; the vast combinations for the enriching of the few at the expense of many; the combinations of the poorer classes for the defense of their interests and claims; the spirit of unrest, of riot and bloodshed; the world-wide dissemination of the same teachings that led to the French Revolution - All are tending to involve the whole world in a struggle similar to that which convulsed France."
[1] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.20, Americana Corp. 1980, p.373 [2] The Golden Bough, Frazer, p.422,423,550,551 [3] The Two Babylons, Hislop, p.63-65 [4] Exodus 32:1-4 [5] Unfolding the Revelation, Anderson, p.31 [6] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. p.210-215 [7] The Catholic Encyclopedia, Broderick, p.374,375 [8] The Peoples Almanac #2, Wallechinsky/Wallace, p.401 [9] Communism in Prophecy History America, Winrod, p.44 [10] The Numbers 1:47-53 [11] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.9, Americana Corp. 1978, p.420 [12] Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th ed. Vol.XII, p.706 [13] Encyclopedia of Occultism and Paraspycology, Vol.1, Shepard, p.460 [14] Ibid. p.460 [15] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, Emissary Publications, 1979, p.249,250 [16] The Oxford English Dictionary, Vol.5, 1933, p.47 [17] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.42 [18] Encyclopedia of Occultism and Paraspycology, Vol.1, Shepard, p.460 [19] Ibid. p.460 [20] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.54 [21] Encyclopedia of Occultism and Paraspycology, Vol.1, Shepard, p.460 [22] An Encyclopedia of Freemasonry and its Kindred Sciences, Mackey, p.368 [23] Ibid. p.368 [24] Ibid. p.368 [25] An Encyclopedia of Freemasonry and its Kindred Sciences, Mackey 33, p.346 [26] Ibid. p.346 [27] The Vatican and its Role in World Affairs, Pichoni, p.88 [28] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.28, p.228 [29] Ibid. p.229 [30] The Great Controversy, White, p.255 [31] American Peoples Encyclopedia, Vol.8, p.8-003 [32] Ibid. Vol.8, p.8-004 [33] An Encyclopedia of Freemasonry and its Kindred Sciences, Vol. I, p.347 [34] The Great Controversy, White, p.250,251 [35] Foxe's Book of Martyrs, King, p.82 [36] The Great Controversy, White, p.237 [37] The World Book Encyclopedia, Vol.??, p.18 [38] Encyclopedia Americana, Vol.15, p.657 [39] Ibid. p.657 [40] Encyclopedia of Occultism and Paraspycology, Vol.1, Shepard, p.460 [41] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.45 [42] Ibid. p.56
[illuminati - 4a] [illuminati - 2b] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
