# Illuminati - 1b

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/newage_illuminati/illuminati_02.htm

Chapter 1
(part two)
1. The modern term for witchcraft taught in Colleges today.2. The origin of the "Great Rite" among modern day witches.3. What is Phallicism?4. The Jewish Star of David is not originally from Judaism, but Babylonian Witchcraft.5. The Pentagram and Pentagon.6. Sacred Numbers and Letters in Witchcraft That Deceive Today.7. The Origin of the Number 666.8. Names for the Devil and Sun-gods that add up to 666.9. The Origin of the Name Phoenix (Fenex), an Ancient Name for Lucifer.
Little do young Rock and Rollers know they are deceived by an unseen host of agents of the Devil. The Bible warns it will be demons, using people as their instruments, that will lead others into rejecting the True Christ. "For they are the spirits of DEVILS, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty." Revelation 16:14. There is absolutely nothing romantic about Satan. He will give some power to work miracles, but this is his way of deceiving. Just as God uses man to lead others to Him, so does Satan. However, unlike God, once Satan has used a person for his own purposes, Satan will cast away all whom he has used to deceive others, like a man casts away his trash into the trash can. So to help a Bible student avoid falling into any of Satan's traps, one can learn from the Scriptures and from those whom Satan has already used, how not to become another one of his victims. To start, we need to study again the first deception at the Garden of Eden. As we stated before, the Devil uses camouflages to keep his worship hidden. The Sun and Nimrod were only a front used by Lucifer to get multitudes to bow before him. However, the first camouflage he used to deceive Adam and Eve was the serpent. The very thing Satan used to deceive Adam and Eve became eventually one of the most sacred symbols of Sun worship! Instead of the serpent as being a symbol of Satan and deception, as the Bible instructs, the serpent became a symbol of the "Great Benefactor and Healer" of mankind. The serpent was worshipped as the "God of Healing" and "Life-Restorer." "YE SHALL NOT SURELY DIE," Genesis 3:3, was Lucifer's first lie to our first parents. The serpent, the god of healing, was generally represented in the pagan arts entwined on a stick, staff or a stock of a tree [1]. Here we find the origin of the strange symbol that the American Medical Association (AMA) uses today. This medical insignia was originally the symbol of the Egyptian god Hermes, who we will see in a moment was Nimrod's father, Cush. And it's here we find the origin of the word hermetic. This ancient word found in classical literature actually derived from the ancient Egyptian god of medicine. This name is actually Chaldean and the Greeks and Egyptians adopted this god from the Babylonians. The very word hermetic means the hidden knowledge of magic, occult sciences, etc [2]. Not only was the serpent worshipped by the ignorant pagans as "The Great Benefactor" for mankind, the serpent ironically enough was worshipped also as "The Great Enlightener." What did Satan say to Adam and Eve besides, "Ye shall not surely die?" In Genesis 3:5 we read: "FOR GOD DOTH KNOW THAT IN THE DAY YE EAT THEREOF THEN YOUR EYES SHALL BE OPENED, AND YE SHALL BE AS GODS, KNOWING GOOD AND EVIL." In The Two Babylons, by Hislop, p. 227, we read the following:"Along with the sun, as the great fire-god, and, in due time, identified with him, was the serpent worshipped. In the mythology of the primitive world, says Owen, 'the serpent is universally the symbol of the sun. In Egypt, one of the commonest symbols of the sun, or sun god, is a disc with a serpent around it. The original reason of that identification seems just to have been that, as the sun was the great enlightener of the physical world, so the serpent was held to have been the great enlightener of the spiritual, by giving mankind the 'Knowledge of Good and Evil.' ' " The ancient Mayans of the Yucatan in Mexico worshipped the serpent god under the name of Can. Can means "serpent" in the Mayan language, as Can or A-Can was the ancient Sumerian and ancient Scottish word for serpent. Here we find the origin of our word canny, shrewd or serpent-like. The Babylonians worshipped Can the serpent and Vul, the god of fire. The Romans simply combined the two words into 'Vulcan," the Roman god of fire from when also comes our word "volcano" [3]. This seems to be how the Mayans and Mexicans named their gods. They too combined two words to describe their serpent god. "Kulkul" means "beautiful bird," and "Can," serpent. Hence, "Kulkulcan," which means "Bird Serpent" in the Mayan language. This is the exact same meaning for Quetzalcoatl, the Mexican pagan messiah in central Mexico [4]. Interestingly enough, the cosmic symbol for Quetzalcoatl was a feathered serpent! Here is another interesting observation. The origin of the word "Vatican" also derived from two words. The Latin word "vatic" or "vatis" means "prophet or soothsayer" [5]. The combined word, "Vatican," appears to mean "divination by the serpent"! The symbol for Astrology is often shown in pagan arts as a serpent in a circular position with his tail in his mouth. This represented eternal life. There is the strong evidence from Scripture that the serpent originally had wings and flew, instead of having legs as the evolutionists say. The Scriptures reveal it was a curse for the serpent to travel on his belly as he does now. "And the Lord God said unto the serpent, because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field: upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life." Genesis 3:14. Hence, that feathered serpent that has been displayed in pagan arts and worshipped as the god of healing, is none other but "that Old Serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world." Revelation 12:9. While Satan changed the image of the serpent into something to be adored and worshipped, the goat, from antiquity, symbolized the Devil. The goat, known for its agility, stubborn character and having its own way, is what Astrologers say people are who are born under the sign of Capricorn, the He-Goat. Witches in the Middle Ages were widely reputed to worship the Devil in the form of a goat [6]. During the Middle Ages there was a widespread witch panic that produced witch hunts and witch trials. Witches were often charged with poisonings and other injuries as well as murder. The charge of murder might have been derived from making a wax image of a hated person and consuming it over a slow fire or sticking it with pins. African witchdoctors, Haitian experts in Voo-Doo, and American Indian medicine men indulged in this Satanic Black Art. The Middle Ages witch trials record how multitudes of witches confessed, under torture, that they held local meetings called covens to adore their master, make plans to execute the diabolic will, and partake in bestial rites. In southern Europe the site where the witches met was called a synagogue; in Germany it was called a blocksberg [7]. These meetings usually took place at midnight. It was brought out during the trials that witches claimed they came to their meetings by being carried by the Devil: others were able to fly by anointing themselves with oils from the bodies of murdered infants; still others rode broomsticks, or a cow or a goat. At the rendezvous Satan appeared as a black animal, often a goat, or as a man with cloven feet [8]. There are many different sects in modern witchcraft today; however, modern day witches do not believe that the Devil exists. They are not Satanist old women with long black hair and a wart on their nose. A Christian will be shocked to know that ancient Witchcraft has been revived and modernized among the young people today. And, it is the religion of some of those who control the wealth of the world! Their covens (churches) are today Federally recognized tax exempt churches, and enjoy the same rights under the protection of the law as do the Christians. And, believe it or not, there are millions of both male and female witches here in the United States alone. Witchcraft is the biggest rival religion of Christianity in England and America [9]. It is interesting enough, however, that these modern witches exalt the horn gods and the pagan goddesses such as the Egyptian pagan trinity Osiris, Isis, Horus, which originated in the worship of Nimrod (the Sun), his wife Semiramis (the moon), and Tammuz (the Morning Star). Like their pagan brethren, modern day witches are ignorant to the fact that these gods do not exist. Even though they claim the Devil does not exist, they too are in reality bowing their knee before him. They exalt the gods Satan hid behind to deceive the ancient nations. Pan or Bacchus is another god the witches exalt and worship. It depends on what coven they belong to. Anyway, how was this ancient pagan god displayed in pagan art? He had a man's head with horns and cloven feet!
The god Pan, symbol of the Universe and the Sun,He was Bacchus to the Phoenicians
Now witchcraft, as stated before, has been modernized. Modern day witches who worship the gods of cosmic forces claim now to work magic and cast spells for the general good of the community. This kind of witchcraft is called white magic. Those who practice casting spells that injure people practice what is known as Black Magic. However, most of these modern day witches claim to be good witches as in The Wizard of Oz, and unlike medieval witchcraft that made an image out of wax to stick pins in it so the person the wax image looked like would die, these modern day witches claim now that this wax image is used to heal people. This revised and modern form of witchcraft is called today Wicca, which is the feminine form of an Old English word, "Wicce," meaning -- "Witch" [10]. The main feature of Wicca is, however, nature worship. Just as the ancient Baal worshippers in Babylonia believed it was the cosmic Star gods that were responsible for pouring out the rain from Heaven and caused fertility among the plants and mankind, so do these ignorant people in these modern witch covens teach their little ones these things. The word Baal, so often seen throughout the Old Testament, was used to describe a god. The word means "Lord" or "Master" [11] and in the Bible it was the name for the Sun-god. Now, kings of pagan nations often were considered the incarnation of the Sun-god, and to identify with the Sun-god the kings would adopt the name of his god as Jezebel's father did in 1.Kings 16:31. His name was "Ethbaal" which means "with Baal" or "Baal's man" [12]. Just as ancient Sun-kings pretended to be the ancient incarnation of the Sun-god, so does modern witchcraft teach that the High Priest is the personification of the horned god Pan, or Osiris. And, the High Priestess of these covens, like ancient Sun worship, is the personification of Isis, Diana, or one of the other names this pagan goddess has throughout the world. Baal worship was basically a fertility cult that taught its followers that the Sun-god and Moon-goddess controlled the seasons, brought fertility, etc. Here we find the origin of the beliefs of Wicca. Witches, ancient and modern, take off their clothes during their meetings as a symbol of freedom, and so the power they say they receive from their gods can freely flow from their bodies. A circle is drawn to contain and concentrate the power the witches claim to receive through lewd dancing and chanting. On nights of the full moon and other festivals, the High Priest of witchcraft performs a ritual known as "Drawing Down the Moon." This is taught to new members to explain how the High Priestess becomes the incarnation of the Moongoddess [13]. Witches believe that the build-up of power is achieved much more readily when the participants are naked, and when a certain sexual tension is present. When these witches reach the power they want charged in their atmosphere, they begin to cast their spells. They claim the spells should always be for the good; an evil spell, they say, rebounds threefold upon the head of its creator. After their spells are cast, the witches settle down to a ceremony that is similar to the holy communion held for the Egyptian god Osiris. However, instead of a round disk wafer that was an Egyptian symbol of the sun, some modern day witches make cakes in the shape of a five pointed star called the Pentagram. This to the occultist is one of the most powerful weapons in magic. The Pentagram symbolism is based on that of the number five which according to Astrology, stands for the living world of nature, such as Air, Fire, Water, Earth, and the Spirit of their god and pagan goddess who used the elements, according to witchcraft, to create the Universe. The number five in Astrology also represents the four directions and the center, for the five senses (smell, taste, sight, touch and hearing). Witchcraft, like all forms of Spiritualism, teaches man is a microcosm (miniature universe); man is the ruler of nature, and as the miniature image, the potential master of all things [14]. So, the Pentagram (five pointed star) with one of its points projecting upwards is imagined in Witchcraft as a man's body with arms and legs extended, and is a symbol of the dominance of the divine spirit. It is used as a magical weapon for invoking good influences and keeps the evil spirits at bay, say those who practice white magic. Many of our youth reject the religion of the Bible, and now worship the created things instead of the Creator through this new modern form of Witchcraft because Witchcraft today is attractive and has taken on a brighter look. Instead of the satanic evil looking people of the Middle Ages, the witches of today have been, for the past century, portrayed as good people, who fight against the evil forces of this world, such as "Wonder Woman," with her sign of white magic (the Pentagram) displayed on her forehead. But to distinguish the bad witches from the good witches, say the occultists, a reversed Pentagram with two points upward is a symbol of Black Magic, and of those who do worship the Devil. The two points of the star pointed upwards suggests the horns of the Devil symbolized as a goat attacking the Heavens with his horns [15]. This five pointed star which has two points upward was, and is today, worn as an amulet by open Devil worshippers, and by many modern day magicians and wizards. Originally this evil sign was worn to show Satan that they had chosen him as their leader [16]. Is this not chilling and frightening to know that multitudes of women of high fashion may not be aware that when they wear that little gold chain around their neck, with this five pointed star with two points upward, they are showing they have chosen the Devil's side, and seek his protection? Is it not chilling to know that they who call themselves Freemasons, and the ladies who call themselves "The Order of the Eastern Star" display this evil sign in their lodges? We will study even more shocking truths about the origin and purpose of these Secret Societies in the next chapter.
As stated earlier, there are many sects of modern witchcraft today, and many variations found in their rituals. In some covens the cakes they use in their communion are made into the shape of a crescent, which is the symbol of the Moon-goddess. These cakes, by the way, are made of salt, honey, wine, meal, oil and, in some covens, blood. They are eaten in honour of the Egyptian god Horus [17] or whatever god the coven exalts. In ancient witchcraft the cakes were round with a cross drawn on them that represented the first letter of the name of the ancient dead and risen pagan messiah "Tammuz," who was the incarnation of the Sun-god and the son of the Moon-goddess (the Queen of Heaven). Even the Israelites, when they turned from the worship of our Creator made these same cakes that honoured the pagan queen of Heaven and her god-child Tammuz. In Jeremiah 7:18 our Lord condemned this ancient ritual in the worship of these cosmic gods. "The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead their dough, to make cakes to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods, that they may provoke me to anger." Today, the Roman Catholic Church dedicates these same cakes to the Virgin Mary whom they ironically call the Queen of Heaven [18]. These cakes are called by Roman Catholic "Hot Cross Buns" [19]. The name of this pagan goddess the Israelites worshipped and dedicated these cakes to is found in Judges 2:13. Her name to the Israelites was Ashtaroth. To the early Romans her name was Venus, the goddess of love. Witchcraft is just another word for Spiritualism, but the modern word used to cover-up the evil name of Witchcraft so it may be taught in Colleges is "Parapsychology." Now, to understand this other abomination found in both ancient and modern Witchcraft, the reader must understand that it was the Sun-god and Moon-goddess who created the whole Universe, according to these witches. To honour this pagan belief, a ritual called "The Great Rite" is strictly observed among these socalled "good" witches. Since the High Priest in a coven is believed to be the incarnation of Pan, the Sun-god, and the High Priestess is the incarnation of the Queen of Heaven, the Moon-goddess, these two mimic the myth in the creation of the Universe by the Sun-god and the Moon-goddess when they perform "The Great Rite" ritual, which is engaging in sacred prostitution. This is justified by the witches on the grounds of fertility, because after all, they say, Wicca is a fertility cult [20]. To try to understand any of this perversion so you can teach others how to avoid it, the reader simply needs to realize that this abominable practice of sacred prostitution found today in modern witchcraft is nothing new. All ancient heathen worship of the Sun-gods had within its philosophies Phallicism. What is Phallicism? It is the veneration and worship of male and female sex organs. The union of male and female organs is symbolized in witchcraft as a point within a circle, and also as two triangles uniting to make a "Hexagram" [21] better known today as the "Star of David." The truth is, King David of Israel never carried this emblem that is now the symbol of Israel. This emblem was adopted from witchcraft by some Jewish priests who had explored deep into the Babylonian religion during their captivity in Babylon. From here sprang witchcraft in another garb called the Cabala. The Mexican Indian, centuries before seeing a white man, had the Hexagram as the symbol of their phallic worship of the cosmic gods. Often the Hexagram is displayed as a symbol of the 7 planets that serpentine their way through the Zodiac. The Sun in the center is displayed in a circle with a point in its center.
Usually before these modern day witches partake of the cake and wine to honour Horus or Pan, as we examined in part one of this chapter, a ceremony for any new initiates into their coven is performed. This involved blinding, binding, and whipping new members for the purpose of purification. However, this ceremony is not as brutal as in medieval covens; they are good witches, so the whip they use now is said to be of embroidered silk. However, those present with sadomasochistic tendencies might be satisfied. The following five-fold kiss bestowed by the High Priest or Priestess on the feet, knees, genitals, breasts and lips of a new member speaks for itself [22]. In Man, Myth and Magic, An Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Supernatural, Vol. 14, p. 1867, Cavendish, we read the following: "Only three pieces of magic can be performed at each meeting, they claim, and the spells should always be for the good; an evil spell rebounds threefold upon the head of its creator. Sometimes the spell is cast telepathically: for instance, in the case of a spell cast to cure a person of a bad leg the witches would stand silently and 'will' the leg to heal. On other occasions they might use a doll, or 'fith-fath,' to represent the sick person - bathe the doll's leg with a healing potion, or the high priestess might 'bind' the spell, wrapping her girdle around the blade of her athame in a special way." How popular has this modern witchcraft become? In the September 12th, 1982 Arkansas Democrat "Family Weekly," Georgia Frontiere appeared on the front page. Georgia inherited the Los Angeles Rams when her late (sixth) husband drowned in the riptides off the Florida coast in April 1979. He was 72. But what we really are interested in bringing to your attention is her openness about being able, says she, to talk to her dead husband's spirit, and how she dabbles in the occult. On page 11 of the Sept. 12 issue we read the following: "Georgia gives Nolan Cromwell on unasked for raise ... and Georgia, who dabbles in the occult (she says she's talked to Carroll's spirit), mysteriously waves a hand at half-time over Haden's injured leg, which is believed to be broken. 'I thought for sure she was nuts,' Haden says. 'Then, incredibly, after the doctors told me they were sure it was broken, the X-rays were negative.' " Why are more and more people coming out publicly and admitting to be connected with Spiritualism? About 25 years ago they would be afraid to make such statements for fear of public ridicule and harm. However, most Christians never heard of the Fraudulent Mediums Act of 1951 which only applies to those who obtain money from the public under the pretext of possessing supernatural power. This allows those who really can perform these lying wonders to practice their arts legally in the open for the first time in hundreds of years [23]. Most witches, because they believe in the immortality of the soul, teach that every human being has a spirit guide that they can contact for advice. This is also where the Psychics claim their advice and information comes from. These departed souls, they say, are the spirits of loved ones, ancient Indian Chiefs, or Egyptian, Hindu, or Chinese Sages, or Wise Men from past ages. These spirits, they say, have much wisdom because the spirit guides have experienced many reincarnations and have mastered the lessons they were meant to learn while on earth, and now have the power to benefit the livng [24]. As we already read from Scriptures, the doctrine of "Life After Death," or the belief in an immortal soul is a lie from the Devil. But the miracles and spells that some witches have are very real. They may not know it, but they receive their power from Devils who, after they use them to deceive other humans, will destroy the very ones they have used. However, a person who has chosen the teachings of Jesus Christ, and made His Spirit a guide through a knowledge of the Scriptures, knows that these spirit guides are not spirits of past Sages, but spirits of devils impersonating them. And, the believer who has chosen the God of the Bible is promised protection from those who practice Voodooism and spell casting. In Numbers 23:23 we read: "Surely there is no ENCHANTMENT (Witchery) against Jacob, neither is there any DIVINATION against Israel." As established earlier, the ancient pagans believed that when they died their souls flew up to the Heavens and took possession of one of the stars. The chief gods of the Zodiac, which were but emanations of the Sun-god, all HAD A SACRED NUMBER. Space does not allow us to examine all of these numbers in Astrology. However, to help us understand why this mysterious number 666 was given to John the Apostle in Revelation 13:18, warning us not to be identified with it, it is necessary now to examine some ancient pagan numerology. Ancient Astrology teaches that one of the sacred numbers of the Chief god of the Zodiac (the sun) was the number one. The Sun symbol, we saw earlier, was a Heavenly Bull and a serpent. Since Babylon was the birth place of Astrology and the rest of Idolatry, we will see how this Babylonian system of gods and goddesses spread throughout the ancient world and has penetrated into modern culture today. Originally, the letters of the various alphabets had, and still have to some extent, a numerical significance. The English language has lost track of this, for there are no numbers that identify with each letter of our alphabet. But, the first letter of the alphabet in many languages still carries with it a reference to the Sun-god (one) whose main symbol was either a serpent or a bull. Take, for instance, the first letter in the Hebrew and Chaldee alphabet. It was a symbol of a bull [25]. The Greek word aleph (alpha) is the name of the first letter in their alphabet, and it means bullor ox. It is interesting to note that the ever-revered bullgod of the Orient (the elephant) has the same root (eleph) in his name, and almost every Hindu temple has its phallic idol to commemorate the lifegiving qualities of their god (one). So to honour the Sun, the god (one), the Heavenly Bull-god, the first day of the week [26] (Sunday) and the first of everything was dedicated to the bull-god as sacred. The first day of the month, the first day of the year, the first born son and the first fruits of the harvest and of the flocks, were kept sacred and dedicated to him. Indeed, most Christians cast away the original day of the worship described in Genesis 2:1-3 (before Jews were ever heard of) for the observance of Sunday, the first day of the week! We will investigate this mystery later. The number 2 in ancient Astrology is considered a female number and a symbol for the Mother goddess who, according to pagan belief, is the second member of the godhead. However, pagan philosophy teaches that the number 2 was thought upon as an evil number. In ancient paganism, women were considered as evil and the cause of death. Some scholars claim that our very word, evil, is eve-il. The name of the second letter of the Hebrew Chaldean alphabet is Beth, a feminine proper name which means house. The moon, which is the symbol of the Mother goddess, is ever considered as the monthly house of the Sun in Astrology. The number 3 is a sacred number identified with the pagan godhead of Baal, Ishtar and Tammuz. Sometimes the number 3 represented a triple aspect of the Sun-god as the ruler of Heaven. While the sun appeared in the sky it was symbolized as a Heavenly Bull. The Serpent was the symbol of the sun in the spiritual realm of things." However, when the sun sinks into the Western ocean at the end of the day and spends the night in the realm of darkness and the dead, he then becomes the fish god, Lord of the Underworld. The Fish-god to the Babylonians, Assyrians, and Philistines was Dagon. This name Dagon, like Kulkulcan of the Mayans, is derived by combining two words. Dag means Fish, and On means Sun. Hence, the part man and part fish gods worshipped in the Old World. To the Romans he was Neptune who was ever displayed in ancient Roman arts as part man, part fish, with a pitchfork in his hand. It was during a festival to celebrate the capture of Samson and to give thanks to Dagon for delivering Samson into the Philistines' hands that Samson pulled down the house in which the Philistines were celebrating, on himself and three thousand Philistines. Judges 16:23-31. It is an interesting observation that the High Priest of Dagon wore a robe and a mitre that resembled a fish. This mitre the pagan priests wore is the origin of the mitre the Popes and Cardinals wear today. This mitre that resembles a fish head was worn centuries before the birth of Christ by pagan High Priests of Dagon [28]. In India, their trinity is based on the 3 phases of the Sun-god. When the sun rises in the East, he is Brahama, when he gains his meridian, he is Siva, and when he sets in the West, he becomes Vishnu. This explains why the gods of the orient sometimes were displayed with three heads and three pairs of arms on one body. Many pagans believed in the three aspects of the Sun-god, who has 3 phases in which he travels across the sky. Hence, the number 3 in Astrology represents the trinity in Witchcraft. The number 4 is the sacred number in Astrology for the Sun as Ruler of the four quarters of the Universe, or the four divisions of the Zodiac, the four seasons, and the four directions. It is interesting to note the name of Tammuz, where the cross originally came from. It was originally the initial T in Tammuz, which was known as the sacred Tau. The cross was a symbol of the sun worshippers centuries before Jesus was born. The number 4 itself is little more than a cross. Take away the angular bar and we have a cross. As the reader probably has observed, no Catholic will pray a prayer or worship God until he makes the four directions across his head and body to resemble it. That which is now called the Christian cross was originally the mystic Tau that the Chaldeans used to sacrifice a first born child to the Sun-god [29]. And, it was this very thing that was used to crucify Jesus on. No greater insult could Satan give to Christ than to sacrifice Him on his own symbol of heathen worship. We have already explored some of the reasoning behind the number 5 in Astrology such as the 5 pointed star (Pentagram), but it is the number 6 that should capture our close attention. The hidden meaning and symbols represented by the number 6 are so involved that an entire book could be written about this number and its origin. Here again, we explore the worship of the serpent, because the number SIX has ever been connected with the serpent. It is interesting to note that man and the serpent, along with the other land animals, were created on the sixth day (Genesis 1:24-31). The words used to say SIX, sex in Latin, seis in Spanish, seks in Norwegian, shest in Portuguese, sechs in German and sas in Chaldean-Hebrew, as in most languages, start with the letter S. The letter S derived, believe it or not, from a pictograph of a cobra, erected in its striking position. The hissing sound of the letter S represented the voice of the serpent. We can note that snake, serpent and Satan begin with the serpent letter S. On the heads of cobras there are usually distinct markings in the shape of letters. They are V, U and 0. Hence, the ancients invented names for different serpents with these letters, such as the U in Uraeus. That was the Egyptian name for their sacred Asp, which ever appears on the forehead, or crown, of the Pharoah, who claimed to be the vicar, or the earthly incarnation, of his god [30]. The O occurs in the Greek Ophis, the name of the serpent whom the Gnostics worshipped. During their celebration of their Lord's Supper, they let a snake, whom they called Ophis, crawl over their bread. They became known in history as the Ophites [31].
In the Greek numerical system the symbol S is called the sigma, and was originally the sixth letter of the Greek alphabet. It was also represented as the number six. However, today the letter S, or sigma in Greek, has a number significance of 200. With the dropping of the sacred sigma from the sixth position in the Greek alphabet, it appears the Ethioptic and some other alphabets did the same thing with their 6th letter. This has been one of the most baffling mysteries to people who have studied into the origin of the alphabets. No one seems to know why the ancients did this. The Z or Zeta, used everywhere to stand for 7, fell into the 6th position, and is used in the mysteries of the occult for both 6 and 7. Remember this, because it is important to know to be able to unlock secret symbols that hide, or add to, the number 666. Why should so much importance be attached to this number 666? The answer is found in Revelation 13:17,18, that no man might buy or sell unless he identify with the Mark of the Beast, or the Name of the Beast, or identify with the number of his Name, 666. This prophecy is still future, but if the reader is found identified with these things he or she will be destroyed by Christ Himself. (Revelation 14:9,10). We will find the origin of this number of doom, 666, shortly. The numbers 6 and 7 are often interchangeable. This confusion is probably where we get our expression today, "At sixes and sevens," a term meaning confusion. The Greek numerical system is certainly "At sixes and sevens" when it comes to these two numerical symbols. When we study the origin of the number 7 we see that the number 7 stood, from the time of Babylon on, for the Giant Serpent of the sky [32] whose 7 heads were a symbol of the 7 fatecontrolling planets which serpentine their way through the Zodiac in the Babylonian astrological system. Here we begin to see why the Apostle John, in the book of Revelation, symbolized Satan and his astrological religion as a seven headed serpent (Dragon), attacking the woman, which is a symbol of God's True Church. "And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold A GREAT RED DRAGON, HAVING SEVEN HEADS AND TEN HORNS, and seven crowns upon his head." Revelation 12:3. The Scriptures themselves show that the cosmic seven headed Dragon is a symbol of Satan. "And the GREAT DRAGON was cast out, that OLD SERPENT called the Devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: He was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him." Revelation 12:9. Now in Revelation 17:1-5 we observed earlier that Mystery, Babylon the Great, the Mother of Harlots is riding a Seven Headed Beast. However, this is not a Dragon (Devil), but a beast which in symbolic language represents a "Political Power." See Daniel 7:1-8, 17, 23 and 24. We will study more about how a beast in Bible prophecy is a symbol of "Political Power" further on. It will also be shown later on that this beast from the bottomless pit with seven heads and ten horns is Satan's last political movement that will try to unite the world under one banner. As we already established, the serpent was ever displayed in the pagan arts as an emblem of the Sun-god. It is eye opening to learn that even many of the names used for the Sun-gods actually add to 666. For instance, all the avatars (incarnations) of the Sun-god, which were ten, according to the Hindu belief were called Buddhas or Rasees of the Siun, or Sun. The Greek word to describe the Buddhas, or Rasees, is Xiuv. This means Wisdom of the Sun, or Solar Wisdom. In the ancient Greek language, this word to describe avatars of the Sun added to 666 [33].
X=600 I=10 U=6 N=50 with a total of 666
We will see more names of pagan gods that add to 666 as we go on. But first, we need to know more about the origin of the number 6, how some of our letters today derived from this number, and how letters were used in the Babylonian mysteries to hide the number 666. We have noted that S is the initial of most words used for SIX. In several Greek dialects, the S was replaced by F which the Greeks called Bau, Vau, etc. If you take away the cross bar on F, it too resembles a snake in striking position. There is a very striking resemblance between S, F, and V. It can never be understood why the occultists used these letters in their mysteries, unless the reader remembers the S, F, and V represent the number SIX. V is the 6th letter in the Hebrew-Chaldean family of alphabets. F replaces it in Western alphabets and it must be noted as stated before, like 6 and 7, F and V are ever interchangeable. Take for instance "knife" and "knives."
Another letter that is a serpent symbol in Greek was the letter M. This letter represents, in the mysteries, the number 12, and is the 12th letter of the Greek alphabet. M is frequently used for the letter S because it is just a sigma on its side. Now if M is but a sigma on its side and refers to the second 6, or 12th, letter, it would appear significant that the symbol for the letter following the sigma should be nothing more than a Z or Zeth on its side. In the mysteries of paganism the second six (M) or the number 12 stands for the Zodiac. As we have seen, the dropping of the sacred sigma as the sixth letter numeral causes the Z to drop back into the sixth place. However, like the letter S, the Z also resembles a hissing sound, so the ancients never lost the significance of the number 6. Now since history says our letters F, M, S, V, and Z derived from the ancient pictures of a serpent in his striking position, and have the numerical value of SIX in most other alphabets, we now might be able to understand the symbolic language. Just as a number in our present numerical system has place values, such as 6 written alone equals six, two sixes together equals sixty-six, and three sixes together would equal six hundred sixty-six, so did the ancient learned doctors of witchcraft use the letters S, V, Z or the other serpentine letters to hide the number 666. Just as Freemasons have secret signs and grips to let each other know they are Masons, so did the learned doctors of witchcraft let each other know who they were by camouflaging this sacred number 666. Only the learned pagan knew the significance. The number 666 was written in serpentine letters like SSS, VVV, ZZZ = 666. They also arranged the letters different ways; sometimes they would turn them upside down or sideways. The SSS sometimes could be seen with a line drawn through the middle of all three S's and turned sideways. This is the origin of the popular amulet called the Oriental cross.
Another way the number 666 was hidden which can be unmasked, is in learning the origin of the trident sign. Earlier we learned that the Sun-god's weapon was the lightning bolt and it was stylized into a pitchfork. The pitchfork had three prongs to it, hence, we have today the trident sign, which by the way is used to symbolize the number 666 also. Beware of these schemes to deceive, for it is still not clear how this number of doom, 666, will keep God's people from buying and selling. It is not only the Mark of the Beast, which we will study in the last chapter, that will prevent God's people from buying and selling, but also the number of his name (666). Revelation 13:17, 18.
However, we can trace the origin of the number 666. And this number of doom is derived out of Astrology. The Zodiac is a narrow band about 18° width making a complete circuit of the sky around the earth. As we noted before, this was symbolized in pagan arts by a serpent with his tail in his mouth forming a circle. This represented to the occultist endless time or eternal life [34]. As we established earlier, astrology taught that the fate of mankind was ever decided by the position of the stars. Now the chief gods of the Zodiac were the 7 planets who serpentined their way through the 36 rooms of the Zodiac. The 7 planets travel through the narrow band of the Zodiac at varying speeds. The Zodiacal band itself was divided into 12 houses, one for each month of the year, and each house was divided into three rooms, making 36 rooms in all, one for each 10° of the Zodiacal circle" [35]. Here we find the origin of our present time-keeping. Believe it or not, the dial of a clock is derived from the 12 houses of the Zodiac. Thus the Zodiac was a Heavenly Clock with which today we measure time. Here's another interesting fact: It was not by chance that our ruler has 12 inches to a foot. Both of these systems of measuring time and length were based upon the 12 houses of the Zodiac. It was not by chance we have 12 units to a dozen. Here we can find the origin of the "Chance of Fate." It is not by chance that the original Roulette wheels have a 360" circle with 36 divisions of 10" each, with a blank or zero division to represent the 5 days beyond the 360 days in a year. It is not by chance that there are 36 numbered cards in a 52 card deck. One card each represents the 52 weeks with 12 face cards, four Kings, four Queens, and four Jacks, and four suits, that represent the four seasons. Why do you suppose fortunetellers use a deck of cards to predict the future? Because the deck of cards is derived from Astrology! Burn them! It is not by chance that our present townships are composed of 36 square miles, for several writers point out that the ancients divided the earth according to the divisions in the sky. Just as truly as our 12 inch ruler was once a symbol of the 12 house Zodiac, so is our 36 inch yardstick based upon the 36 rooms into which the heavenly houses were divided. Now, the entire remainder of the sky outside of the Zodiacal band was also divided into 36 constellations, 15 on the south side and 21 on the north side. A god of each constellation was appointed to rule over one of the 36 rooms of the Zodiac. Every star in the sky was considered as a god and the abode of departed spirits and was included in a constellation, over whom was appointed a god who ruled over a Zodiacal room. Each Zodiacal house god rules over a month of the year, and the 7 planetary gods regulated, according to Astrology, the affairs of mankind by their relative positions in the various rooms of the Zodiac. Over them all ruled the Sun-god (The All-Seeing Eye), who was considered the central fire from which each had sprung. As you will recall, the learned doctors of paganism believed that all the other gods were but emanations of the one god, the Sun-god. Now 1, 6, 12, 36, 111, and 666 were the most sacred numbers in Astrology. Priests of Sun worship used the numbers mathematically by the way the stars travel across the sky to predict future events. They invented magic charts to perform this most popular form of divination. Like the Roulette wheel, the charts were divided into 36 numbered divisions. There were 6 columns in all directions with the numbers 1 to 36 placed inside the entire chart. Any direction you add the columns, they add to 111. There are six squares in each column and 6 x 111 = 666. If you add all the numbers from 1 to 36 they will also add to 666. So you see, the number 36 was a sacred number that identified with the 36 room gods of the Zodiac, and the number 666 was a summary number of the Sun-god, because it was his sacred number as the Ruler of the Zodiac.
Most will agree that this is very interesting, but there is still another, deeper deception the Apostle John, in the book of Revelation, was told to warn the people of the world about. This is the number of the Beast that will cause the world to worship Satan under a false system of Christianity. "Take heed lest any man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many." Mark 13:5,6. "Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred three-score and six." Revelation 13:18. The Hebrew-Chaldean, Latin, Greek and Arab languages have a numerical value for the letters of their alphabets. Take for instance the original Roman Numerals. They were I V X L C D. And if you add these Roman Numerals themselves, along with their numerical values we get: I=1 V=5 X=10 L=50 C=100 D=500 with a total of 666 The letter M was not in the original system, it was added later. Now the pagans had a custom of adding their names according to the value of their letters of their own alphabet. As their languages are different, so were the values of each of their letters in their alphabets. The I in Roman Numerals equals 1; in the Greek language, however, the I has a value of 10. The new Testament was originally written in the Greek language, and an ancient Greek name for Satan in its transliterations as we examined earlier was Teitan. And if you add Teitan in its Greek numerical values for the letters we get: T=300 E=5 I=10 T=300 A=1 N=50 with a total of 666 Now since the Sun-god, the Heavenly Bull, brought both light and darkness as he rose from east to west, he was worshipped also as both good and evil. He was worshipped not only as a good and evil god, but both male and female. The reasoning behind this heathen philosophy is that the Sungod was believed to be the source of all things. So since there is good and evil, and male and female, the Sun-god had to be good and evil and double-sexed, because men and women were created in the image of their god. And since everything derived from the Sun-god, the ancients believed that the soul of man was a divine spark that returned to the central fire (the sun) from which they originally came. And since the pagans believed the stars were but emanations of the sun, all the Star-gods were believed to be once men [36], that had visited this planet. This could explain why Quetzalcoatl, the Mexican and Aztec messiah, was pictured in their arts as a good man who was a great benefactor of mankind. He visited the earth to teach the arts of civilization, and promised his followers he would return, but he was pictured also as an evil serpent which devoured mankind. The American Indians, both in the North and in the South, considered the bird and the snake as sacred. The bird, because of its power of flight, contained the spirits of the dead, and was associated with lightning. Both lightning and birds of prey can be seen to descend sharply from above and strike with lethal effectiveness [38]. Hence, the mythological time-cycle bird of fire was called the Phoenix not only by many Indian tribes of North America, but also by the Egyptians and the Phoenicians. Sometimes called Benu by the Egyptians, the Phoenix was worshipped as the bright and morning star. The morning star to the Egyptians was the nocturnal representation of the hidden Sungod Osiris, or his soul. The Phoenix was known as "The One Who Ferries Osiris" [39]. In the earliest texts, the morning star and Orion, the ruler of the sky, are often compared. For some, gods with a similar name seem to be confused with the morning star, like Athtar, who was worshipped as the god of vegetation, as was Tammuz [40]. However, this name Athtar, according to Mythology of All Races, means Lucifer [41]. Now, it just so happens that one of the old spellings of Phoenix is Phenex or Fenex in Greek transliterations. Like the name Lucifer, Phoenix means "Shining One" [42]. And if we add FENEX in its Greek value we get: F=6 E=5 N=50 E=5 X=600 with a total of 666 It depended on what area of the world the pagan lived as to what type of bird was called the Phoenix. To the Egyptian, it was the heron. To the Babylonians, Assyrians, and Hindus it was peacock. To the North American Indian, it was the Eagle. To the Central and South American, he was the quetzal. In China, Japan and India the phoenix is the peacock and the symbol of the sun. In Bali, the peacock is a symbol of the entire sky [43]. The pagan believed that when he died his spirit (soul) would become immortal and take possession of one of the stars in Heaven from whence he originally came [44]. It is significant that the Peacock Throne made at Delhi, India, in 1628 is supported by 12 pillars, one for each of the 12 signs of the Zodiac. It is eye opening to discover the Peacock Sun-bird, a symbol of Lucifer, the god behind all false gods, pictured on a Roman Catholic Church window, encircled by the Zodiac. In the church of St. Maurice at Reims, France, we find a woman (probably the Virgin Mary) pictured in a sun-halo and crowned with seven stars. In one hand she holds a peacock, around which stretches a circular band having on it the 12 signs of the Zodiac. Another shocking observation regarding the Roman Catholic Church is her exaltation of her Pope when in procession, as he is carried on his portable throne. During this procession, two grooms carry large fans of peacock feathers in such a way that the seated Pope seems to have two wings on his shoulders which are constantly in motion and they make him appear as if he is flying. In ancient Rome and Greece, heaven was considered filled with eyes, the eyes representing the stars, the stars representing the homes of the dead. The god Argus was said to have hundreds of eyes [45]. These eyes of Heaven were represented by the eyes found on the peacock feathers. June, Queen of Heaven to the Romans, had a peacock as her sacred bird [46]. The peacock or Phoenix has long been connected with the Zodiac. The Yezidis, the open Devil worshippers we mentioned earlier, to this day have seven stone images of peacocks which they say represent the 7 planets and which they call Seitan, which is merely the Arabic spelling for Teitan or Satan. In Hinduism, the Ramayana relates that when the god Indra transforms himself into an animal, he becomes a peacock. In India the peacock was believed to have a thousand eyes in its feathers and had power to kill snakes [47]. This sacred bird that symbolized the heavenly host is known to have been kept in Babylon for religious purposes. Aristotle mentions the peacock bird, and a reference in a play by Aristophanes may imply that a Persian ambassador brought a gift of peacocks. Alexander the Great imposed heavy penalties on those who killed Indian peacocks. The birds were depicted on Greek coins. They were sacred to Hera and a myth relates how the goddess set the hundred eyed Argus to guard her husband's mistress, Io, after Zeus sent Hermes to charm and kill Argus. Hera used the giant's eyes to ornament the peacock's tail [48]. In Java, the peacock was associated with the Devil [49]. In Mosul in northern Iraq, there is a sect of Yezidis who hold that the Devil is not evil, and call him the Peacock Angel. The worshippers of Satan could have chosen no better animal to represent the heavenly host as the proud ruler of the year, and god behind all gods. It is interesting to note that the very symbol of the proud ruler of the universe, according to heathen belief, is used as a symbol for the NBC Television Network! And CBS Television Network uses the "All-Seeing Eye," which was the symbol of the Sungod [50] the Ruler of the eyes (stars) in heaven. Also, ABC Television Network uses the Sun-disk as a symbol of their organization. It is very important that the reader have some knowledge of the various religions that derived out of Astrology so that he may understand the esoteric mysteries found in the goals and purposes of Secret Societies. However, before we begin to study the Secret Societies which we shall examine in the next chapter, there are a couple of more important facts about astrology and spiritualism the reader should be aware of. Astrology teaches that this world is to pass through a time period about 26,000 years. This is the length of time it takes, according to astrology, for the Earth to pass through the influence of each of the twelve signs of the Zodiac. Each Great Month or Sign is figured about 2,100 years."' Hence, the entire time period of Twelve Months having about 2,100 years each, is known to astrologers as The Great Year. This Great Year is divided by seven ages: Leo, Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces and Aquarius [52]. During this so-called Great Year, or 26,000 years, astrology claims to have predicted the evolutionary progress of man from century to century. The starting point for the seven continual Ages began 10,000-8,000 BC, which was known as the Age of Leo. From the book "The Compleat Astrologer", Parker, we read the following: "The earliest Month of which we have real knowledge was that of Leo (10000 - 8000 B.C.): The Lascaux cave paintings show the Leonine creative influence but the thought-motivation behind the effort is Aquarian in spirit. The Age of Cancer (8000 - 6000 B.C.), witnessed the earliest development of settled farming and constructed dwellings - both of which are Capricornian in essence. During the Geminian Age (6000 - 4000 B.C.) the founding of the earliest libraries comes under Sagittarius. Perhaps the most striking polarity of all was in the Taurean Age (4000 - 2000 B.C.), for the Egyptians were much preoccupied with death and the afterlife, themes strongly related to Scorpio. The war-like Arian Age expressed its polarity with Libra in the magnificent beauty and balance of Greek Architecture (2000B.C. - Birth of Christ)." (The Compleat Astrologer, Parker, McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1971, p. 44.) Now, according to Astrology, we are living in the Age of Pisces (O - 2000 A.D.). The Age of Pisces is considered the Christian dispensation. Pisces was symbolized in Astrology in the form of a fish because the Mother goddess Venus and Cupid hurled themselves into the river Euphrates and became fishes after being terrified by the giant Typhon [53]. Hence, we find the real origin of the fish symbol that some erring Christians display to show they are Christians. Spiritualism teaches that during this evolutionary time table of the 26,000 years, Masters of Wisdom, or Christs, were to arise. Some were to be founders of great religions, say occultists, and they would have a variety of titles such as Mahatmas, the Hierarchy, the Great Ones, the Secret Brotherhood, the Inner Government of the World, the Great White Lodge of Masters of the Wisdom. One of these socalled Masters was Koot Hoomi, who is said to have inspired a witch named Alice Bailey [54]. She claimed to be one of these Masters [55]. She was the author of many occult books, one of which was Discipleship in the New Age. In her book she states the following: "We stand now on the verge of a similar but still more momentous event - the appearance of the fifth kingdom, as a result of the planned activity of the New Group of World Servers, working in collaboration with the Hierarchy of perfected souls, and under the guidance of the Christ Himself. This will usher in the New Age wherein five kingdoms in nature will be recognized as existing side by side upon earth." Discipleship in the New Age, Bailey, Lucis Publishing Co., 1944, p. 32. Bailey goes on to say that this New Age we are entering into will call for a universal New World Religion [56]. This philosophy is based on the theory found in Astrology that this world is entering into the Age of Aquarius. Hence, the reader may look at this song found among Rock 'N Rollers in a different light. For "This is the dawning of the Age of Aquarius" was written by disciples of this New Age Movement to help promote the idea of a One World Government and a One World Religion. Now, Aquarius is also known as the great coming New Month. In the book The Compleat Astrologer, Parker, p. 44, we read the following: "In the Age of Aquarius, we may conjecture that man will consider a system of WORLD GOVERNMENT, which will involve the organizational characteristics of Leo." Alice Bailey told her brethren that Christ Himself would usher in this New Age. Bailey goes on to say how this New Age will call for a New World Religion. In her book Disciples in the New Age, p. 38, we read the following: "The Workers in the Field of Religion form this group. Their work is to formulate the universal platform of the NEW WORLD RELIGION. It is a work of loving synthesis, and it will emphasize the unity and the fellowship of the spirit. This group is, in a pronounced sense, a channel for the second Ray of Love-Wisdom, that of the World Teacher - an office held at present by the Christ. The platform of the NEW WORLD RELIGION will be built by the many groups working under the inspiration of the Christ and the influence of the second ray and these - in their totality - will constitute this sixth group."
Reader, be not deceived! The Christ here that Alice Baily is referring to is NOT JESUS OF NAZARETH! Spiritualism does not deny the existence of Jesus, but they do deny Jesus was God Manifested in the Flesh. And as we continue to follow the history of the Great Luciferian Conspiracy, the reader will see how Spiritualism uses Christianity to destroy Christianity. We may examine this fact by reading the writings of another disciple of this New Age Movement who called himself Levi. In his book The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Levi shows how Spiritualism is trying to unite Christianity into its ranks which untold millions have already been deceived by: "The Christ is son, the only son begotten by Almighty God, the GOD OF FORCE and God omniscient, God of thought; and Christ is God, the God of Love. " Levi goes on to say: "Christ is the Logos of Infinities and through the word alone are thought and Force made manifest." (The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Levi, DeVorss & Co., Publishers, 1964.) Spiritualism teaches that Jesus was just one of the Masters that would come into the world. And the word Christ in Spiritualism is a principle (Logos) and does not refer to any particular person [57]. Jesus was just another avatar [58] among modern day occultists. Again, we quote from The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, by Levi, as follows: "What relationship existed between Jesus of Nazareth and the Christ? Orthodox Christian ecclesiastics tell us that Jesus of Nazareth and the Christ were one; that the true name of this remarkable person was Jesus Christ. They tell us that this man of Galilee was the very eternal God clothed in flesh of man that men might see his glory. Of course this doctrine is wholly at variance with the teachings of Jesus Himself and of His apostles." (The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Levi, De Vorss & Co., Pub., 1967, pp. 35, 67.) Contrary to what Levi said in his book, there are numerous Scriptures found in the Bible, both in the Old and New Testament that supports the doctrine that Jesus was God Himself clothed in a human body. "And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory." 1.Timothy 3:16. Jesus Himself said in John 14:8,9, "Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, HAVE I BEEN SO LONG TIME WITH YOU AND YET HAST THOU NOT KNOWN ME, PHILIP? HE THAT HATH SEEN ME HATH SEEN THE FATHER; and how sayest thou then, shew us the Father?" Here is another truth the Scriptures call to attention. "Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son." 1.John 2:22. "And every spirit that confesseth NOT that Jesus Christ is come IN THE FLESH IS NOT OF GOD: and this is that SPIRIT OF ANTICHRIST, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world." 1.John 4:3. Spiritualism teaches that at the beginning of every Age there has been a Christ to usher them in. Jesus was the Christ who according to Astrology ushered in the Age of Pisces (O - 2000 A.D.). Today, Spiritualism calls Christ "The God of Force." Little do these modern Luciferians know that the Christ of the Holy Scriptures, the Lord of the Sabbath, foretold through His Prophets how Spiritualism would try to unite the world into a One World Luciferian Socialistic Government. The Apostle John was given a vision from our Lord Jesus of Nazareth, that symbolized this New Age Movement as the Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit. Revelation 11:7; 17:3, 7-14. While Daniel, the Prophet, was given a vision of this New Age Movement almost 700 years before the Apostle John of Revelation received his vision. Daniel even used the same language modern Luciferians and occultists use today to describe it. In Daniel 11:36-39 we read the following: "And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak marvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be accomplished: for that which is determined shall be done. Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all. But in his estate shall he honour the GOD OF FORCES: and a god whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold and silver, and with precious stones, and pleasant things. Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god, whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain." In the following chapters of this book, we will understand more of the meaning of this prophecy, and we will learn what other names this New Age Movement is coming under.
[1] New College Edition, The American Heritage Dictionary, Houghton Mifflin Co. Boston, p.186[2] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. p.35[3] The American Heritage Dictionary of English Language, Morris, p.617[4] Mexican and Central American Mythology, Nicholson, p.82[5] Webster's New Twentieth Century Dictionary Uanbridged, 2nd ed. p.2023[6] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.8, Cavendish, p.1118-1121[7] Collier's Encyclopedia, Vol.23, 1980, p.549-552[8] Ibid. p.550[9] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.14, Cavendish, p.1866[10] Ibid. p.1866[11] Young's Analytical Concordance to the Bible, Young, p.65[12] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. p.25[13] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.14, Cavendish, p.1866[14] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.16, Cavendish, p.2159[15] Ibid. p.2159[16] Ibid. p.2159[17] Encyc. of the Unexplained: Magic, Occult. & Parapsyc., Cavendish, Rainbird Ref. Books Ltd. 1974, p.277[18] The Catholic Encyclopedia, Broderick, Thomas Nelson Inc. 1975, p.518[19] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. p.29,48[20] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.14, Cavendish, p.1867[21] Ibid. p.1300[22] Ibid. p.1867[23] Ibid. p.1867[24] Ibid. p.1867[25] The American Peoples Encyclopedia, Spencer Press Inc. 1953, p.647[26] The Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Vol.4, p.2259[27] The Two Babylons, Hislop, p.226,227[28] Ibid. p.216,217[29] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. p.44,45[30] Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Vol.2, p.402[31] Ibid. p.404,405[32] The Religions of Ancient Egypt & Babylonia, Sayce, p.240[33] Anacalypsis, Vol.2, Higgins, p.210[34] Astrology, McCaffery, p.28,29[35] Ibid. p.28,29[36] Roman Religion as seen in Pliny's Natural History, Casper, p.10-30[37] The Book of the Dragon, Allen/Griffiths, Orbis Pub. Ltd. 1979, p.80[38] Ibid. p.60[39] Mythology of All Races, Vol.12, p.54[40] Beware It's Coming - The Antichrist 666, W.F.G. Inc. 1980, p.29[41] Mythology of All Races, Vol.12, p.54[42] Ibid. p.413,414[43] Dance and Drama in Bali, deZoete/Spies, p.91[44] The Book of Talismans, Amulets and Zodiacal Gems, Pavitt, p.39[45] Ibid. Bulfinch's Mythology, Bulfinch, p.28,30[46] Man, Myth and Magic, Cavendish, p.2153[47] Ibid. p.2153[48] Ibid. p.2153[49] Ibid. p.2154[50] Mythology of All Races, Vol.12, p.28,29[51] The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Levi, p.9[52] The Compleat Astrologer, Parker, p.44[53] Ibid. p.128[54] Man, Myth and Magic, Vol.13, Cavendish, p.1769[55] Discipleship in the New Age, Bailey, p.43[56] Ibid. p.38[57] The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ, Levi, p.12[58] Ibid. p.13
[illuminati - 2a] [illuminati - 1a] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
