# Illuminati - 4b

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/newage_illuminati/illuminati_07.htm

Chapter 4
(part two)
1. The Papacy and the United States foretold as the Two Beasts found in Revelation 13th chapter.2. The One World Government Conspirators within High Places in the U.S.3. The Art of Subliminal Warfare through TV, Magazines, News- papers, etc.4. The Communist plot uncovered by the Un-American Activities in 19475. Tracing early Communism (Illuminism) in early American History6. More on International Banking and how American bankers are connected with the Illuminati7. The History behind the Federal Reserve Trap8. President Woodrow Wilson and The League of Nations9. Col. Edward Mandel House and the founding of the Council on Foreign Relations, Inc.10. The United Nations Headquarters for the One World Government Conspiracy
Now, let's examine the two other partly religious and partly political powers Lucifer is predicted to use to bring this final struggle between Christ and Satan to its end. In Revelation 13:5, we see again how this "First Beast" identifies with Daniel's prediction of the Papacy in Daniel 7:24, 25. Daniel stated the "Little Horn" would speak "great words against the Most High." And so did the Apostle John predict this, and another unmistakable fact that clearly shows us this "First Beast" is the Papacy: "And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue FORTY AND TWO MONTHS." Here we see again this 1260 years of Papal rule. As we have already examined, 42 months in Bible prophecy equals 1260 years. Now in Revelation 13:11-17 we are shown a third partly religious and partly political power emerging in history around the time the Papacy lost its power to control Europe. We are sad to say it, but this "Second Beast" here in Revelation 13:11-17 is Protestant America. The United States is predicted from Scripture to be first a lamb-like nation; however, later it is to speak as a dragon, Revelation 13:11. Let us now examine the 13th chapter of Revelation in more detail. Revelation the 13th chapter is divided into two parts. Verses 1 through 10 are a prophecy of not only the Papacy, but also the controlling powers of the known world in the ancient past that promoted the various astrological religions that originally derived out of the Babylonian worship of Nimrod, Cush and Semiramis. If the reader will examine closely the "First Beast" of Revelation 13:1-10 and compare it with Daniel 7:3-8, he will see how similar the two visions are. Daniel 7:3-8 is the same prophecy John the Apostle was given almost 700 years later. Daniel saw these pagan Sun worshipping nations in sequence, while John saw the same prophecy in its full stage. Notice in Revelation 13:1,2 this First Beast is made also from parts of the animals (beasts) we read of as described in Daniel's vision. "And the beast which I saw was like unto a LEOPARD, and his feet were as the feet of a BEAR, and his mouth as the mouth of a LION: and the DRAGON gave him HIS POWER, AND HIS SEAT, AND GREAT AUTHORITk:" Revelation 13:2. The Apostle John was not only given the same vision as Daniel, but he was shown even more prophetic truths. The Apostle John was shown Seven Heads among the Ten Horns, and "Another Beast" that Daniel wasn't shown. And John also saw that it is this First Beast that the "Dragon (Satan) gave his power, seat, and great authority." And, it is the Beast (Papacy) about which the book of Revelation warns that will have a Mark, and will have control of commerce "that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the Beast, or the number (666, Rev. 13:18) of his name." However, it is not this first beast that will cause the whole world to receive its "Mark" or its name or its number, 666. It is this "Second Beast" (Rev. 13:11-17) which is "another beast" that Daniel the prophet didn't see in his vision that will actually "causeth the.earth and them which dwell therein to worship the First Beast (Papacy), whose deadly wound was healed." As we pointed out in history, the Papacy's dictatorial rule was taken away by the French in 1798. And in Revelation 13:3 it was predicted: "And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast." The Papacy's power is predicted from Scripture to be restored! "And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the Dragon (Satan, Rev. 12: 9), and out of the mouth of the Beast, and out of the mouth of the False Prophet." Revelation 16:13. These three Satanic powers are also symbolized in Revelation as three beasts (political powers), that arise from three different areas in the world. They are: The Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit, Rev. 11:7, 17:3,8; · The Beast that rises out of the Sea, Rev. 13:1, 2; and · The Beast that comes out of the Earth, Rev. 13:11-17. These three unclean spirits are predicted to perform such deceiving miracles that most of the inhabitants from the four corners of the world will believe this is the power of God. "For they are the spirits of Devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and the whole world to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty" Revelation 16:14. As we pointed out earlier, it will be Spiritualism that will unite the whole world under a Luciferian Confederacy. And in our day Spiritualism will come in the name of The New Age Movement (Illuminati), Catholicism, and American Apostate Protestantism. Let us now examine by Bible prophecy and history that the Dragon and the Beast of Revelation 16:13 are symbolized here as the Illuminati and the Papacy; and let us see how it is, indeed, American Protestantism who is the False Prophet. Like the Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit (Illuminati), America was foretold to emerge around the time the Two Witnesses (Old and New Testament) were finishing their testimony (at the end of the 1260 years of Papal rule). And, like the illuminati, Protestant America was born in the same year (1776). This will be understood by examining Revelation the 13th chapter. Both the Papacy and Protestant America are foretold in Revelation 13:1-18. "And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy. And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority. And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast. And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast: and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him? And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months. And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues and nations. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. If any man have an ear, let him hear. He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints." Revelation 13:1-10. Revelation 13:1-10 shows the world ruling political powers Satan has used and is using to promote Spiritualism. Some suggest that the seven heads on the beast of Revelation 13:1 represent Egypt, Babylon, Persia, Greece, Pagan Rome, Papal Rome and the seventh head is the Papacy again, when its religious dictatorship is restored. However, most have forgotten about another kingdom that existed before Egypt became a nation. Shortly after the flood, the first kingdom Satan used to promote Spiritualism was Babel. And it was at Babel that Nimrod attempted to unite the world in that day into a One World Government. Egypt was indeed a nation that promoted Witchcraft, but Egypt was never a World Ruling Power. Babel was, and it was in control of the known world about 2,000 years before King Nebuchadnezzar ruled the known world from Babylon. Babylon was built on the ruins of Babel. So, the seven heads found on the Beast of Revelation 13:1 could also be Babel, Babylon, Persia, Greece, Pagan Rome, Papal Rome and the Papacy again restored. Revelation 13:1-10 gives its reader a complete picture from the post flood era up until the days of this present world history. From Nimrod's Tower of Babel to the founding of the United States, history was laid out in 95 AD for the Apostle John to witness in vision. From the Tower of Babel and down through the centuries, our Lord showed the political powers Satan would use to spread the worship of himself through Spiritualism. His worship by man started at Babel and is predicted in Scripture to be promoted from the Vatican under a false system of Christianity. The Papacy will be, in the near future, the head of this New World Religion that will unite with all Pagandom and Apostate Protestantism. Saith the Lord: "And they worshipped the Dragon (Devil) which gave power unto the beast (Papacy): and they worshipped the beast, saying, who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him?" Revelation 13:4. During the 1260 years of Papal Rule, Satan used Catholicism to get the known world to bow before him. However, shortly before the Papacy was to receive its deadly wound [Revelation 13:3], the United States was to begin its mission in history. Here in Revelation 13:11-17 is the prophecy that predicted the power of American Protestantism that would gradually become the Prophet that will lead all the world again to accept the dictatorial rule of the Roman Catholic Church. "And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon. And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. And he doeth greet wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live. And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads: And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name." Revelation 13:11-17. While the Papacy was losing its power in the third quarter of the 18th century, the United States as an independent Protestant Nation began to make its appearance in history. It was to emerge out of a wilderness symbolized in prophecy as Earth (Rev. 13:13). The United States in the beginning was a haven for those Protestant European people who were fortunate enough to escape the brutal Papal Inquisitions. The United States was set up to have both civil and religious freedom. However, sadly enough, the United States is predicted in Scripture to throw away its civil and religious freedoms and "exerciseth all the power of the first beast (Papacy) before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast (Papacy), whose deadly wound was healed." In other words, the United States will combine religious laws with politics, as did the Papacy when it first ruled Europe. It will force religious laws that actually derived out of Spiritualism, which the Papacy adopted from the Roman version of the religion of Astrology. The United States is predicted in Scripture to be the False Prophet that will herald the religious dictatorship of the Pope of Rome, and cause the whole world to accept the Mark of the Beast (Papacy). Since we know now who this third power is, found in Revelation 16:13, that shall go forth with the Dragon (Illuminati) and the Beast (Papacy) unto the whole world to gather them together to battle of that great day of God Almighty, let us now examine how indeed conspirators have been working within the United States government behind the scenes, within the high places of our government and other agencies, to lead our country as it is predicted. To comprehend how degraded our government is becoming, we need to see what the conspiracy of the Beast that ascendeth out of the Bottomless Pit (Illuminati-Communistic-Socialistic) is working within our own country. As we examined earlier, Adam Weishaupt, founder of the Order of the Illuminati, was a witch, and taught his followers the power of Witchcraft as a weapon to use against those who would get in their way or tried to expose them. The whole order was trained to accomplish their objectives in complete secrecy. Weishaupt himself even remained behind the scenes in his own revolutionary movement. Only his top members knew him. Using Witchcraft to brainwash his new initiates into becoming antiChristian, Weishaupt recruited indirectly an army of international terrorists and propagandists to win others to his movement and help in his struggle to overthrow ALL religions and ALL governments. He even had schools that were specially designed to teach Internationalism. Only a select few were chosen to attend these schools which were established in different parts of the world. Some of the training received in internationalism was the art of Subliminal Warfare. This takes in mind control, or mind sciences. As stated before, Weishaupt in early Illuminism hired an army of writers to write propaganda literature against Papal Christianity. For some 20 years before the French Revolution, Weishaupt degraded the morals of the French people with Atheism and with the licentious philosophies of Sodomy. And so do we see this same attack on the minds of men here in the 20th Century. Back in the late 1940's, maybe some of you who are old enough will remember the great Communist plot that was uncovered in Hollywood, where the FBI and the House Committee on Un-American Activities exposed over 300 of Hollywood's top stage and screen stars as card carrying Communists. Myron C. Fagan was a screen writer, producer and director both in Hollywood and on Broadway. In 1945, at the urgent request of John T. Flynn, the author of The Roosevelt Myth, While We Slept, and The True Story of Pearl Harbor, Fagan attended a meeting in Washington, DC, where he was shown a set of microfilms and recordings of the secret meeting at Yalta attended only by Franklin Roosevelt, Alger Hiss, Harry Hopkins and Stalin, Molotov and Vishinsky, when they hatched the plot to deliver the Balkans, Eastern Europe and Berlin to Stalin. As a result of that meeting, Myron Fagan made open and avowed war on this Illuminati-Communistic-Socialistic Conspiracy, and formed an anti-Communist society called the Cinema Educational Guild. As a result of the work to expose Communistic propaganda in Hollywood, radio and television, in 1947 there was set up in Washington, DC the Congressional hearings that unmasked some of the most famous stars in Hollywood as card carrying Communists. You may wonder why these so-called stars are allowed to continue to influence the movie screens with their presence. The answer to that is, they are working for these same international bankers who own the movie companies. As we continue, it will be shown that it is these same international bankers who control Russia, that are the same conspirators who control NBC, ABC, and CBS television networks, and many large newspapers, magazine companies, and the modern Order of the Illuminati! When the reader understands that our media are controlled by these same international bankers, maybe he can see why the Communist activity in Hollywood is alive and well. Man is by nature an imitator. Let an American stay in Britain for some time and when he returns, he may sound like an Englishman. Let there be a fashion change started and watch how quickly folks will attempt to imitate. By studying the life of Jesus, man learns what truth is personified. Jesus said: "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the father, but by me." John 14:6. The more we learn about Jesus, the more we will want to become like him. However, the more our eyes take in the satanic influence of this world, the more a person can be transformed into its image. In the ancient world Satan degraded the morals of the people and led them to commit the lowest abominations known to mankind by using Nimrod, Semiramis and Cush, who were worshipped as gods through various names and myths. Everything from cannibalism, human sacrifices, incest, sacred prostitution, homosexuality, murder, rape, self-mutilation, torture and suicide, to magic, sorcery, spell-casting, fortunetelling, necromancy, warlockery, and so on, did the gods do in the epics of their lives. Therefore, the ignorant pagans who worshipped these false gods followed in their footsteps. Now, in these modern times, its the movie stars, rock stars and athletes who have become the gods that many worship. Do not our children or adults receive a steady diet of these same atrocities committed by these stars in the roles they portray? Even the children's cartoons are saturated with crime and violence. Are not the soap operas full of this junk? Awake! Awake! Can't the reader see the subliminal seduction by the hidden instigator of sin? Can't the reader see that there is definitely a reason behind all this crime and violence shown on TV, in movie theaters, and in magazines and newspapers? Let's take a look again at the realm of music. Do we really need to ask where some of these rock groups get their inspiration? Take for instance Kiss, who paint their faces and leap on the stage puking blood, declaring, "God of Rock and Roll, we'll steal your virgin soul." The producer Bob Ezrin described Kiss as "symbols of unfettered evil and sensuality." Rock magazines call them "fire-breathing demons from Rock and Roll Hell" [1]. One of the members of Kiss, Peter Criss, boldly declares, "I find myself evil. I believe in the Devil as much as God. You can use either one to get things done." Another member of the group has been quoted as saying: "If God is hot stuff, why is he afraid to have other gods before Him? I've always wanted to be God" [2]. Another Rock group we should take a look at, who have been a great influence toward Satanism, is the Rolling Stones. Keith Richards' heroin arrest and his statement express what they stand for: "There are black magicians who think we are acting as unknown agents of Lucifer" [3]. Also, the songs they have made, such as the revolutionary propaganda of "Street Fighting Man," and the anthem of satanist "Sympathy for the Devil" or "Dancing with Mr. D" (the Devil), bear out Richards' comment. The lead singer of Led Zeppelin openly admits to a fascination with black magic, and the guitarist, Jimmy Page owns the home of the late, infamous Aleister Crowley, whom we studied earlier. Jimmy Page says he has his own occult bookshop because, he explains, "There was not one good collection of books on the occult in London and I was tired of having to go all different places to get the books I wanted" [4]. Page was asked if he were a practicing witch, and he answered with: "I do not worship the Devil. But magic does intrigue me" [5]. The Bible warns that what we behold is what we will be changed into. King David in the Psalm 119:37 said: "Turn my eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way." Satan from the time of Adam and Eve used every device he could foster to take the eyes off goodly things to set them upon the evil things. Shortly before the French Revolution, the Illuminati destroyed what little faith the French had in Christ by writing pamphlets to distribute among the people. Today, their anti-Christian attacks are a hundred times more subtle. They are using Hollywood, special interest groups, the Feminist Movement, Civil Rights groups, the Federal Reserve Act, Congressmen, Senators, and even Presidents to degrade and divide the people in the United States into different hate factions, as they did during the French Revolution to destroy that government and Christianity. They were known as the Jacobin Clubs in the 18th century in France, and today they are called Communists. Two weeks after the Kennedy assassination, the late FBI Chief, J. Edgar Hoover, issued this warning: "We are at war with Communism and the sooner every red-blooded American realizes this the safer we will be" [6]. The same poisonous propaganda that caused the French Revolution is steadily brainwashing our youth as well as the adults today. Can any born-again Christian be so blind as to doubt that the influences of Communism and the promotion of Witchcraft today are taking their toll among Americans? Just as a sincere believer in Christ receives a born again experience (spiritual awakening) -- "Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: Old things are passed away; behold, all things become NEW." 2.Corinthians 5:17 -- so is there a counterfeit experience of this found among witches. Just as a sinner experiences joy in his heart when he makes peace with God through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and is baptized, and no longer wants to live a life of sin, so does a witch have a similar experience of relief when he accepts the belief found in Witchcraft that Jesus is an imposter. In many covens, before a witch can be initiated into the arts of Witchcraft, the initiate, if not born into a family of witches, must take a ceramic cross and turn it upside down, then break the cross-bar downwards. This is to show other witches that they have rejected Christianity and Jesus Christ. Today many ignorant people, who call themselves Christians, hold this sign up to show that they are for peace, when in reality it shows they have rejected Jesus. The reason the name PEACE was tagged on this evil sign is derived from the peace witches say they get after a new initiate shows his rejection of Christianity, and when he practices the arts of Witchcraft. This art of using gullible Christians to promote Witchcraft propaganda is done through subliminal warfare. The Bible reveals to its reader what God is like. "But we all with open face BEHOLDING as in a glass the glory of the Lord, ARE CHANCED INTO THE SAME IMAGE FROM GLORY TO GLORY even as by the Spirit of the Lord." 2.Corinthians 3:18. When the reader studies the life of Jesus Christ from the Scriptures the Holy Spirit illuminates his inner thoughts with an image that his own life will begin to imitate. God will mold little by little the character of a wicked person into reflecting the righteousness of God, which was seen in the life of Jesus. By beholding Jesus we become changed into His image.
It was in 1947 that America was awakened slightly from her deep sleep to see what the Communists were up to. However, America just opened her eyes a little, then fell back into a deeper sleep than before. Communists have their agents planted in every social and political issue that is connected with the affairs of this country. Here quoted from the Congressional Record for the year 1947, on page 2691 we read the warning: "The American Communists launched a furtive attack on Hollywood in 1935 by the issuance of a directive calling for a concentration in Hollywood. The orders called for action on two fronts: 1. An effort to infiltrate the labor unions. 2. To infiltrate the so-called intellectual and creative fields. "In movie circles, Communists developed an effective defense a few years ago in meeting criticism. They would counter with the question, 'After all, what is the matter with Communism?' It was effective because many persons did not possess adequate knowledge of the subject to give an intelligent answer. "Some producers and studio heads realize the possibility that the entire industry faces serious embarrassment because it could become a springboard for Communist activities. Communist activity in Hollywood is effective and is furthered by Communists and sympathizers using the prestige of prominent persons to serve, often unwittingly, the Communist cause. "The Communist tactic of infiltrating LABOR UNIONS stems from the earliest TEACHINGS OF MARX, which have been reiterated by party spokesmen down through the years. They resort to all means to gain their point and often succeed in penetrating and literally TAKING OVER LABOR UNIONS BEFORE THE RANK AND FILE MEMBERS ARE AWARE OF WHAT HAS OCCURRED. "With few exceptions the following admonitions of LENIN have been followed: 'It is necessary to be able to withstand all this, to agree to any and every sacrifice, and even - if need be - to resort to all sorts of devices, maneuvers, and illegal methods, to evasion and subterfuge, in order to penetrate into the trade-unions, to remain in them and to carry on Communist work in them at all cost.'" (p.38 Left Wing Communism, An Infantile Disorder, vol. 1, Lenin 1934, International Publishing Co., Inc) Now can the reader understand why there is so much sex, crime, and anti-Christian propaganda constantly seen in the theater and on television? The average American citizen is completely unaware of the Communist plot to program the American people into accepting Socialism by degrading Christian principles and exalting Sodomy, because all of the networks of television and radio, the magazines and newspapers are controlled by these same conspirators who are running Communism. To see that these things are so, let us now examine the history of how Communism began to infiltrate the American society and how the House of Rothschild connected American New York Bankers with the Illuminati. Now shortly before Karl Marx began to write theCommunist Manifesto, another Illuminist in America published a book that also outlined the plans of Adam Weishaupt. His name was Clinton Roosevelt (a direct ancestor of Franklin D. Roosevelt). His book was called The Science of Government Founded on Natural Law. In it Roosevelt had some of the same philosophy shown in Adam Weishaupt's writings, "that the men of the Illuminati are to be regarded as the most perfect and enlightened of men" [7]. And in his book, Roosevelt outlined the plans of the Illuminati for the regimentation of ALL MANKIND. In other words, enslavement of the vast populations of the world. To accomplish this, the whole world was to eventually be reduced to what we studied earlier during the French Revolution. Des Griffin quotes a statement made by Clinton Roosevelt about how Roosevelt felt about our Constitution: a "leaky vessel which was hastily put together when we left the British flag" [8]. He also stated his atheistic and blasphemous feelings toward our Creator in his book by saying: "There is no God, of justice to order things aright, if there be a God, he is a malicious and revengeful being, who created us for misery." Clinton Roosevelt published his book in 1841. Before this Illuminati propaganda was published to poison the minds of Americans, another Illuminist played maybe even more of a part in spreading poison to degrade the morals of the American people. This Illuminist was sent to the United States from England, like a Christian missionary is sent to a foreign land to preach the Gospel of Christ. She arrived in New York in 1818 and later in 1828-29 held a series of lectures among American Illuminists. Now remember, the word Communist was not used before by Illuminists to describe this movement until Karl Marx wrote the Communist Manifesto in 1844-48. But, here we will learn where the word Communist actually derived from and what these Luciferians' real plans are for America. In Des Griffin's book, Fourth Reich of the Rich, he states the following: "In 1829, American Illuminists sponsored a series of lectures in New York by English IIluminist Frances 'Fanny' Wright. She advocated the entire Weishauptian program of her auxiliary of the Order of the Illuminati including COMMUNISM MADE MORE PALATABLE BY THE LABEL OF 'EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND EQUAL RIGHTS, ATHEISM, EMANCIPATION OF WOMEN AND FREE LOVE. Those present were informed that the Illuminati intended to UNITE THE NIHILIST AND ATHEIST GROUPS WITH ALL OTHER SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS INTO AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION TO BE KNOWN AS COMMUNISM. This new destructive force was to be used by the Illuminati to foment future WARS AND REVOLUTIONS. Clinton Roosevelt (a direct ancestor of FDR), Charles Dana and Horace Greeley were appointed a committee to raise funds for this new undertaking." Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, Emissary Publications, 1979, p. 62. So you see, the Communist movement, as a tool to foment future wars and revolutions by the illuminati, was actually formed here in the United States! Frances "Fanny" Wright's revolutionary aims for the United States could be seen in a tract she wrote called Views of Society and Manners in America. The London Quarterly Review said of her book: "A most ridiculous and extravagant panegyric on the government and people of the U.S. accompanied by the grossest and most detestable calumnies against the country" [9]. In the mid 1800's Albert Pike emerged to join this Luciferian Conspiracy. As we learned earlier, Albert Pike became the most recognized leader and author of Freemasonry. He was also the head of an order that promoted the exaltation of Lucifer who were called the Palladists, which most Christian Masons never knew about. In 1834 Giuseppi Mazzini, the Italian revolutionary who was appointed by the Illuminati to be its director after Adam Weishaupt died, appointed Albert Pike to head the operations of the Illuminati in the United States [10]. Eventually, Mazzini and Pike divided betweem them the work that was to be done to carry on this One World Government Conspiracy planned earlier by Adam Weishaupt. Pike took control of the THEOSOPHICAL SIDE of their operations while Mazzini was in charge of the POLITICAL SIDE of the Order. To further their goals to destroy the Christian religion and to promote a Luciferian One World Government, Pike as the head of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, organized another Order of Freemasonry called the "new and reformed Palladian Rite." He named this after the Luciferian Order of which he also was the head, then he established this Order of Freemasonry with Three Supreme Councils in the world. They were in Charleston, SC, Rome, Italy and the third in Berlin Germany. The promotion of the worship of Lucifer was then openly laid out to these Freemasons by instructions issued by him on July 14, 1889, to 23 Supreme Councils of Freemasonry in the world. Now in order that the reader may understand what Pike said to these 23 Supreme Councils, the reader must remember what we earlier learned about in the modern beliefs found in Witchcraft. Modern day witches say they do not worship Satan. They believe Satan and Lucifer are not the same god, as Christians believe. Satan, to modern day witches, is just a Christian invention to scare people into being good. However, higher witches and Doctors of Occultism believe Lucifer is really the Good God, while they say it is Jesus Christ who is the Evil One. Des Griffin quotes Lady Queenborough's book, Occult Theocrasy, that records Pikes own words: "That which we must say to the crowd is "We worship a God, but it is the GOD one adores without superstition." "To you, Sovereign Grand Instructors General, we say this, THAT YOU MAY REPEAT IT TO THE BRETHREN OF THE 32nd, 31st, 30th degrees: The Masonic religion should be, by all of us initiates of the high degrees, maintainjed in the purity of THE LUCIFERIAN DOCTRINE." "IF LUCIFER WERE NOT GOD, WOULD ADONAY (the Christian God) whose deeds prove his cruely, perfidy, and hatred of man, barbarism and repulsion for science, would Adonay and his priests calumniate him?" "YES, LUCIFER IS GOD, AND UNFORTUNATELY ADONAY IS ALSO GOD. FOR THE ETERNAL LAW IS THAT THERE IS NO LIGHT WITHOUT SHADE, NO BEAUTY WITHOUT UGLINESS, NO WHITE WITHOUT BLACK. FOR THE ABSOLUTE CAN ONLY EXIST AS TWO GODS: DARKNESS BEING NECESSARY TO LIGHT TO SERVE AS ITS FOIL AS THE PEDESTAL IS NEGESSARY TO THE STATUE, AND THE BRAKE TO THE LOCOMOTIVE..." "THE DOCTRINE OF SATAISM IS A HERESY AND THE TRUE AND PURE PHILOSOPHIC RELIGION 'IS THE BELIEF IN LUCIFER,' THE EQUAL OF ADONAY; BUT LUCIFER, GOD OF LIGHT AND GOD OF GOOD, IS STRUGGLING FOR HUMANITY AGAINST ADONAY, THE GOD OF DARKNESS AND EVIL."(La Femme et L' enfant dans La Franc-Maconnerie Universelle, by A.C. De La Rive, p. 588; and Occult Theocrasy by Lady Queenborough, pp. 220, 221) Quoted from Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, pp. 70, 71. Here is another shocking quote from this Apostle of Lucifer that all sincere Christians or Non-Christians everywhere better become aware of. Pike, in a letter dated August 15, 1871, (which until recently was on display in the British Museum Library in London) gave Mazzini details of the Luciferian plan for the world conquest. In this letter he outlined the plans FOR THREE WORLD WARS. Pike said during the THIRD WORLD WAR: "WE SHALL UNLEASH THE NIHILIST AND ATHEISTS, AND WE SHALL PROVOKE A FORMIDABLE SOCIAL CATACLYSM WHICH IN ALL ITS HORROR WILL SHOW CLEARLY TO THE NATIONS THE EFFECT OF ABSOLUTE ATHEISM, ORIGIN OF SAVAGRY AND OF THE MOST BLOODY TURMOIL. THEN EVERYWHERE, THE CITIZENS, OBLIGED TO DEFEND THEMSELVES AGAINST THE MINORITY OF REVOLOTIONARIES, WILL EXTERMINATE THOSE DESTROYERS OF CIVILIZATION, AND THE MULTITUDE DISILLUSIONED WITH CHRISTIANITY, WHOSE DEISTIC SPIRITS WILL FROM THAT MOMENT BE WITHOUT COMPASS (DIRECTION), ANXIOUS FOR AN IDEAL, BUT WITHOUT KNOWING WHERE TO RENDER ITS ADORATION, WILL RECEIVE THE PURE LIGHT THROUGH THE UNIVERSAL MANIFESTATION OF THE PURE DOCTRINE OF LUCIFER, BROUGHT FINALLY OUT IN THE PUBLIC VIEW, A MANIFESTATION WHICH WILL RESULT FROM THE GENERAL REACTIONARY MOVEMENT WHICH WILL FOLLOW THE DESTRUCTION OF CHAISTIANITY AND ATHEISM. BOTH CONQUERED AND EXTERMINATED AT THE SAME TIME." Quoted in Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, pp. 71, 72. Now can the reader see who is behind this Charles Manson Family, and motorcycle gangs, some Rock groups, Hollywood and Television, high interest rates, Feminist movements, civil rights organizations, and Labor Unions that are degrading the American people into different hate factions akin to that of the French Revolution? The Bible predicted this revolutionary force as the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit. But, we live in a time where we can examine this movement inwardly because History says its been working behind the scenes to bring these plans around since the French Revolution. We can trace their footprints in history, to show where they began and where they lead and who they are. To plainly state it, all the footprints from Adam Weishaupt's time to our time will lead us to the doors of a ring of international bankers, who control the worlds wealth, and have the same beliefs as Albert Pike. Under them is a network of industrialist, scientists, military and political leaders, educationalists, economists and entertainers. It is a well known fact that International Bankers have financed nations to fight against each other. Where do you think the countries get their money to buy tanks, guns, uniforms, etc., to arm their nations for war? They borrow from international bankers. International Bankers have financed both sides of countries at war with each other. They care not who wins because, while the nations are borrowing huge amounts of money to kill each other, international bankers make huge amounts of money from the interest charges they make the nations pay. They also have the power to control the out-come of the war by simply cutting off the flow of money they lend. So under the threat of war, international bankers have used their power to gain or increase control over governments. By keeping a nation in debt to them they are in a position to demand a voice in the government affairs of that nation. However, another goal which they have already achieved is to control all the world's Monetary Systems. Here we will learn how American bankers connected with the Rothschilds and the History behind the Federal Reserve Trap. Gary Allan, in his book None Dare Call It Conspiracy, points out that in Karl Marx Communist Manifesto, one of the planks written for world conquest was to get control of the Monetary Systems. Gary says: "Lenin later said that the establishment of a CENTRAL BANK WAS NINETY PERCENT OF COMMUNIZING A COUNTRY. Such conspirators knew that you cannot take control of a nation without military force unless that nation has a central bank through which you can control its economy." None Dare Call It Conspiracy Allan, Concord Press, 1971, pp. 41, 42. It was on May 1st, 1776 that Adam Weishaupt backed and led by the House of Rothschild, formed the International Revolutionary force called the Illuminati which later became known as Communism. Now, the revolutionary slogan for the Illuminati in Latin, was "NOVUS ORDO SECLORIUM," which means "A NEW ORDER FOR THE AGES," which comes from the philosophies of Astrology. As we saw earlier, the insignia on the back of a dollar bill with the ALL-SEEING-EYE, was a Witchcraft sign found among the Masons, which the illuminati was a part of shortly after the Americans signed the Declaration of Independence, on July 4th, 1776. Americans are made to believe that the Roman numerals MDCCLXXVI on the pyramid, which add to 1776, is to celebrate Independence Day of luly 4th, 1776. But reader, nothing could be further from the truth about this matter. This occult sign with its slogan "NOVUS ORDO SECLORUM" is to commemorate the founding of the Illuminati on May 1st, 1776, not the fourth of July. And, it is not by chance that the EAGLE which was a symbol for Lucifer to the ancients, and was known as the Phoenix, is now used as a symbol of the office of the President of the United States, which according to Bible Prophecy, will "SPEAK AS A DRAGON." Revelations 13:11. To show some more subliminal warfare of the devil by his people, let us look at the number 13 to see its importance to these conspirators. The number 13 to witches is a most powerful magical number in practicing warlockry. As established earlier, Witch covens today have usually 13 members in number, but do vary. When witches cast spells to injure people or cure them, 13 witches stand within the pentagon, (the center of the five pointed star), and call on spirit guides (familar spirits Deut. 18:11) which are in reality demons, and the witches control them to do their bidding. The demon appears in the center of the Pentagram (the five pointed star).
Reader, now take a very close look on the back of your One Dollar Federal Reserve Note. Not only is the Phoenix (EAGLE) displayed here, but look closely at the stars over the eagle's head. Notice there are 13 stars. Look how they are arranged. It is not by chance that these 13 stars from the HEXAGRAM which by the way, is the most EVIL SIGN IN WITCHCRAFT. Americans are made to believe that these 13 stars represent the 13 original colonies [12]. However, if the reader will again look closer into this great seal of the United States, he will discover that those who designed this seal did not display this magical number 13 by accident. Note the number of times 13 is used.1. The Hexagram formed by 13 Pentagrams (stars) 2. The Eagle Breast Shield has 13 stripes. 3. There are 13 Berries on the olive branch in the eagle's right talon.4. There are 13 arrows in the eagle's left talon. 5. There are 13 leaves on the olive branch. But for the record, the reason again for the witchcraft signs found on the back of the One Dollar Federal Reserve Note is because the six men who had a part in its design were Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Francis Hopkinson (also the designer of the flag), Charles Thomson, and William Barton [13]. As stated earlier more than 50 of the signatories of the Declaration of Independence were earlier Masons or Rosicrucians and were identified with the esoteric sciences (the occult). So you see, it is not hard to understand why the Federal Reserve displays witchcraft signs on their notes, because, believe it or not, the Federal Reserve itself, is comprised of 12 member banks and one Federal Reserve Board -13 in all. The reader will be shocked to know that the Federal Reserve is not a U.S. run institution. Now, let's trace its footprints to see where they lead. Again, in the mid 1800's another German illuminist was sent on a mission from the House of Rothschild to accomplish a goal of this New Order For the Ages. His name was Jacob Henry Schiff (1847-1920). He came to New York first for the sole purpose of getting control of the United States monetary system. He eventually became the head of the banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb & Company. He bought Kuhn & Loeb out later with Rothschild money. He also became the director in many important corporations, including the New York City National Bank, the Equitable Life Assurance Society, and the Union Pacific Railroad [14]. Using charity as a front to hide his Illuminati One World Government activities, Jacob Schiff became one of the most important successors of Albert Pike in leading the United States towards anarchy. As stated by Lenin earlier, one of the first goals of the communists is to get control of all monetary systems of the world. And this was to be Jacob Schiff's first achievement. On December 22, 1913, began one of the worst acts the communists accomplished that pushed America towards the doom it was to experience in Albert Pike's plan for world conquest. Here we will really see how the Bible is so correct in stating how we are at war with "spiritual wickedness in high places" Ephesians 6:12. A Republican, Senator Nelson Aldrich proposed a National Reserve Association in 1911 consisting of a Central Bank, fifteen branches, and a top board controled by the nation's leading bankers (which was then dominated by J.P. Morgan) of whom we will study more of in a moment. But Aldrich's proposal never passed. However, the Illuminati conspirators landed one of their first men to become a President of the United States. His name was Woodrow Wilson. We will also look into the life of Wilson and what part he played in this conspiracy in a moment. However, before we examine how actually our Presidents become canidates for the office, we should understand another acheivement that Jacob Schiff accomplished in the United States. This was connecting the bankers of America, J.P. Morgan, Paul Warburg, and the Rockerfellers into this Luciferian Conspiracy. Gary Allan in his book "None Dare Call It Conspiracy" states how the American big bankers formed a confederacy with Jacob Schiff, who was actually working as agent for the House of Rothschild: "Paul Warburg married Nina Loeb daughter of Solomon Loeb of Kuhn Loeb and Company, America's most powerful international banking firm. Brother Felix married Frieda Schiff, daughter of Jacob Schiff, the ruling power behind Kuhn, Loeb." Stephen Birmingham writes in his authoritative Our Crowd: "In the eighteenth century the Schiffs and Rothschilds shared a double house" in Frankfurt. Schiff reportedly bought his partnership in Kuhn and Loeb with Rothschild money. Both Paul and Felix Warburg became partners in Kuhn, Loeb and Company. "None Dore Cell It Conspiracy" Allan, Concord Press, 1971, p.45. Senator Nelson Aldrich, whose daughter married John D. Rockfeller Jr, together with Paul Warburg and other internationist bankers set-up a secret meeting at Jekyll Island Georgia to make plans to get control of America's Banking Systems by establishing a central bank. Some of the invited guests were Henry P Davidson of J.P Morgan and Company; Frank A. Vanderlip, President of the Rockefeller owned National City Bank; Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Treasury; A. Piatt Andrew and Benjamin Strong of Morgan Bankers Trust Company [15]. It was stressed during this secret meeting that in order to get Congress to accept this Central Bank Scheme, the name "Central Bank" must be avoided at all cost. Out of the Jekyll Island meeting came the Aldrich Bill. But, the centralization of the American Banks never passed through Congress. However, these conspirators just fell back and regrouped again and re-named the Central Bank Conspiracy, "The Federal Reserve Act," to make it sound more like a U.S. Government run agency. And to see to it that it would pass through Congress this time they landed their very first president in office. His name was Woodrow Wilson. Jacob Schiff, Bernard Baruch, Henry Morgenthau, Thomas Fortune Ryan, and New York Times Publisher Adolph Ochs, all contributed heavily to finance the Wilson Campaign [16]. When Wilson tried to get this Central Bank called the "Federal Reserve System" to pass through Congress, he chose Rep. Carter Glass to propose this Federal Reserve Act instead of Aldrich. And in December while Congress desired to adjourn for Christmas the Federal Reserve Act was passed by a vote of 298 to 60 in the House and the Senate by a majority. As it was during the French Revolution, so is it today. The Illluminists or Communists have penetrated into the high levels of American Politics, and the High levels of its governmental institutions. Be not deceived! They have their top men posing as Congressmen, Senators, even Presidents, FBI and CIA agents, as military officers, and even as clergymen. The power of the Illumnati is money. And they use their money to gain control in the Religious, Political, Economical, Educational, Medical, Military, and Social areas that deal with society as a whole. And during the "Russian Revolution," it was under the name of "Bolshevism" that the Illuminati penetrated in these same areas and caused the overthrow of Czarism in Russia. Des Griffin in his book "Fourth Reich of the Rich," has compiled some very important facts about who were working behind the scenes in the Russian Revolution: "After being thrown out of France and Spain, Leon Trotsky and his family arrived in New York aboard the steamer Monserrat on January 13, 1917. Although he was never known to have a job, the Trotskys lived in a fashionable apartment and traveled around in a chauffeured limousine. For some time the source of his wealth was unknown. "Trotsky left New York aboard the S.S. Kristianiafjord bound for Petrograd to organize the Bolshevik phase of the Russian Revolution. When the ship docked at Halifax, Nova Scotia, on April 3, 1917, the Trotsky party was detained by Canadian authorties under instructions received from the British Admiralty in London. "Within hours, great pressure was brought to bear on Canadian authorities by high officals in both Washington and London to recently declassified by the Canadian government, reveal that the authorities knew that Trotsky's group were 'Socialists leaving (America) for the purpose of starting revolution against the present Russian government... (Wall Street and the Bolshevik Revolution, by Antony G. Sutton, Arlington House publishers 1974, p. 28). Trotsky and his group were quickly released." The Fourth Reich of the Rich, Emissary Publications. 1979, p. 89. Des Griffin goes on to show where the money came from that was needed for the Russian Revolution: "President Woodrow Wilson was the fairy godmother (presumably under instructions from 'Col. House and his backers') who provided Trotsky with a passport to return to Russia to carry forward the revolution. This American passport was accompanied by a Russian entry permit and a British transit visa." Jennings C. Wise, in Woodrow Wilson: Disciple of Revolution, makes the pertinent comment, "History must never forget that Woodrow Wilson, despite the efforts of the British police, made it possible for Leon Trotsky to enter Russia with an American passport (Sutton, p. 25)." "In April 1917, Lenin and a party of 32 Russian revolutionaries, mostly Bolsheviks, journeyed by train from Switzerland across Germany through Sweden to Petrograd, Russia. They were on their way to join Leon Trotsky to complete the revolution. Their trans-Germany transit was approved, facilitated and financed by the General Staff" unknown to the Kaiser (p. 39). At this time Max Warburg, the brother of Paul and Felix Warburg, leading instruments in shackling the "Federal" Reserve System on the American nation, was high up in German intelligence. Max was also the head of the Rothschild/Warburg bank in Frankfurt. VERY INTERESTING! Can anyone doubt that the international bankers were running the whole show from behind the scenes?" Fourth Reich of the Rich." Griffin, Emissary Publications, 1979, pp. 89-91. It was confirmed by the New York Journal American of February 3, 1949 that Jacob Schiff gave 20 million in gold to help the final triumph of Bolshevism in Russia." Now we need to take a deep look into the American politics and learn how this same Luciferian threat is planning and working behind the scene in the United States, as they succeeded in doing to the Russian people. Jacob Schiff, again acting from orders of the House of Rothschild, planned an organization akin to that of the Jacobin Clubs and the Bolsheviks in Russia. These aristocratic terrorists would penetrate into American politics as their brethren did before them in France and Russia. Woodrow Wilson was the sole property of Jacob Schiff and J.P Morgan and other internationalist bankers. But the man who was really running things in the White House was the mysterious "Col." Edward Mandel House during Wilson's term in office. Col. Edward House, who was a British-educated son of a representative of England's financial interest in the American South, wrote a revolutionary book which he admitted to later, that revealed plans to overthrow the government of the United States. The book was called Philip Dru: Administrator, and it was symbolically written to also show the detailed plans for the creation of a One World Totalitarian Government. It was House and the internationalist bankers who promoted Wilson as the Presidential candidate. Woodrow Wilson, who was the 28th President of the US, served two terms as President from March 4th, 1913 to March 4th, 1921. But it was House who converted Wilson to accept the principles of the centralization of the US Monetary System. It was House that helped promote the Presidential candidacy of Franklin D. Roosevelt [18]. It was Franklin D. Roosevelt who gave the Communists East Germany and eastern Europe. And it was Edward M. House under the watchful eye of Jacob Schiff, who was under the watchful eye of the HEAD of this international conspiracy (the House of Rothschild of London and Paris), that established in 1921 what their earlier comrades established, to overthrow the governments of France and Russia. Called the Jacobin Clubs in France in the 18th century, this aristocratic revolutionary movement today in America is called THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS, INC. and its off-shoot is the TRILATERAL COMMISSION. The Council on Foreign Relations, Inc. is the political side of the illuminati today. They have produced Congressmen, Senators and even Presidents, that they have used to pass laws that have little by little led America into becoming a Socialist country. The Trilateral Commission is an international organization founded by David Rockefeller, who also had a part in founding the Council On Foreign Relations, Inc., and who is the chairman of the board [19]. The Trilateral Commission is the Illuminati's attempt to unite Western Europe's Common Market, Japan, Canada, and the United States, into an economic and political confederacy. What they couldn't do through the political side of the Illuminati (Council On Foreign Relations, Inc.), they are trying now through the economic approach. The first attempt in the 20th century to unite the whole world into a One World Luciferian slave unit was tried in history by these super-rich conspirators at the close of World War I. President Woodrow Wilson on January 8th, 1918 laid out a 14 point plan to Congress for lasting peace" [20]. Within this package of world peace was neatly hidden a plan for these conpirators to get all nations of the world to give up their sovereignty. It was labeled as "The League of Nations." These modern money changers used World War I to make tons of money and as a tool to frighten the war-torn people of the world at that time into believing if all the governments of the world would unite into a One World Government, this would stop all wars between nations, and would achieve world peace and security. The League of Nations headquarters was in Geneva, Switzerland, and it was during World War I that our own President Woodrow Wilson in 1918 began to draw the United States citizens, along with the rest of the world, into accepting this sham. Eventually with the help of "Col." Edward Mandell House, 63 nations joined the League, although the total membership at one time never exceeded 58. However President Wilson was dumbfounded when he was unable to obtain the two-thirds vote in the US Senate required for ratification of a treaty, and the United States never joined The League of Nations. This caught these Conspirators completely off guard because surely, they thought, the United States would fall for this sham, for it was the President of the United States who was promoting it. Now when the Conspirators saw that their One World Government couldn't be achieved using the name The League of Nations, Col. House, under the direction of Jacob Schiff, formed an aristocratic secret organization called the Council On Foreign Relations, Inc. This private Secret Society is to produce enough Congressmen, Senators and Statesmen, etc., so the next attempt to incorporate the US into a One World Government will not fail, because of the voting power they hope to have. But reader, remember, this is not a United States Government run establishment. Here from their own publication, Council On Foreign Relations, Inc., Annual Report 1979-1980, which is controlled by David Rockefeller, we read the following on page 5: "The Twenty-one Americans, who, together with British counterparts, founded in Paris in 1919 'The Institute of International Affairs,' were a diverse group that included Col. Edward M. House, Herbert Hoover, Gen. Tasker Bliss, Christian Herter, and such scholars as Charles Seymour, later president of Yale, Professors Archibald Cary Coolidge of Harvard and James T. Shotwell of Columbia. In 1921 their American branch of the Institute MERGED WITH A LARGER, EXISTING GROUP OF NEW YORK BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL MEN TO FORM THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS, INC." We are living today during their second attempt for their NOVUS ORDO SECLORUM, the New World Order. The Council On Foreign Relations, Inc. is only the Illuminati front working in the United States for world government; their brethren in England, as we have already read, are The Institute of International Affairs. Another super-rich group for Internationalism which the IRS approved, is a so-called charitable organization called The American Friends of Bilderbergers. The Bilderberg movement, like the Jacobin Clubs in France, chose their name from the name of the meeting place where they held their first meeting. In this case, it was the Bilderberg Hotel in Oosterbeek, Holland in May of 1954. Like the lacobin Clubs, Bolsheviks and the Council On Foreign Relations, Inc., The Bilderbergers are an aristocratic Secret Society for the superrich. It is made up from the world of international banking, political circles, and business and professional people. They hold top-secret meetings annually to promote Internationalism. The chairman of this Secret Society of the elite is one Prince Bernard of the Netherlands, royal consort of Queen Juliana, who is reported to be the richest woman in the world. Queen Juliana and Lord Rothschild are the principal stockholders of Shell Oil Company, while the Rockefellers control Standard Oil. The Bilderbergers are also known as "The 500." Des Griffin states some names of the invited guests to the Bilderbergers annual meeting in his book, Fourth Reich of the Rich, page 118: "A lot can be learned from noting the names of the people who attend these clandestine annual meetings: David and Nelson Rockefeller, Emilio Collado, Executive Vice President of Exxon Corporation, Ciovanni Agnelli, owner of the Fiat car company, Robert Strange McNamara, President of the World bank, Heinz (Henry) Kissinger, Gerald Ford, Senator Mathias, Britan's Prime Minister James Callaghan AND his "conservative" counterpart Margaret Thatcher, Rothschild puppet President Valery Giscard D'Estang of France, and many other people in similar positions in various nations." Now, according to the Council On Foreign Relations, Inc. Annual Report 1979-1980, Kissinger, Mathias and a host of other political American figures are members of the Council. Howard Baker, George Ball, Harold Brown, Ellsworth Bunker, Donald Bush, Hodding Carter, Douglas Dillon, Arthur Goldberg, Alexander Haig, Jacob Javits, David LIttle, Henry Cabot Lodge, George McGovern, Robert McNamara, Walter Mondale, Donald Began, Dean Rusk, Adlai Stevenson III, and Andrew Young are just a few names listed in their annual report, as members of this Secret Society. Back in the days of Wilson, the headquarters for this international New World Order was The League of Nations. Today this masterpiece of deceptions is called the United Nations. Many of the same nations that were duped by their leaders into joining The League of Nations were duped again into joining the United Nations [21]. The UN, like The League of Nations, was set up after the world experienced the horrors of war, in hopes that this time, the war-torn people of the United States would join. The League of Nations really only differed in two ways from the United Nations of today. Instead of its headquarters being located in Geneva, Switzerland, this time the conspirators placed it in New York City. Who donated the money to buy the land and the building materials to unite the nations? It was John D. Rockefeller who sank 18.1/2 million as a gift to the UN, to buy 18 acres of land along the East River in New York, where it is located today [21]. Gary Allen, in his multi-million best seller, None Dare Call It Conspiracy, states the following about who actually laid the foundations to this modern day Tower of Babel: "At least FORTY-SEVEN C.F.R. (Council On Foreign Relations, Inc.) members were among the American delegates to the founding of the United Nations in New York City in 1945. Members of the CFR group indluded Harold Stassen, John J McCloy, Owen Lattimore (called by the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee a 'conscious articulate instrument of the Soviet conspiracy'), Alger Hiss (Communist spy), Philip Jessup, Harry Dexter White (Communist agent), Nelson Rockefeller, John Foster Dulles, John Carter Vincent (security risk), and Dean Acheson." None Dore Coil It Conspiracy, Allan, Concord Press, 1971, p. 86. As we learned earlier from the pen of the modern Luciferian prophetess, Alice Bailey, the most diabolical scheme to bring about a One World Religion and a One World Government shall be perpetrated through the medium of the United Nations sham. The ultimate goal today in the One World Luciferian Government Conspiracy is to take the weapons away from the citizens of the world so they will have no problem exterminating those who will not bow to their god. This is to be done by conditioning the gullible world into accepting the phony peace plan which is to set up the United Nations as the policemen of the world. Under this plan, the United Nations would discipline any nation that would try to start a war, by threatening that nation with nuclear weapons, which the nations were to hand over to them. However, as we warned before, the real motive behind this scheme is to use these weapons to cleanse the world of the billions of people who will not adhere to their wishes. Not one in 1000 citizens of America who adhere to the principles of Jesus of Nazareth are aware of what is about to fall upon them. Not one in 1000 American citizens, even non-Christians, have any knowledge of how organizations like the National Rifle Association and their Institute for Legislative Action have kept the Luciferians from accomplishing their world take-over plans. It has been the members of the National Rifle Association and their Institute for Legislative Action who have been battling with such gun-law strategists as the American Civil Liberties Union which, by the way, was the legal organization that used Congress to abolish prayer and Bible study in public schools. They also acted as counsel for the American Nazi Party, and they helped promote the right for a teacher to teach the principles of evolution." However, gun-law supporters such as the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Coalition to Ban Handguns suffered a major set-back in their plans to call for an immediate handgun prohibition. This would have eventually led to a prohibition of all firearms under a bill called Proposition 15, if passed. If it had been made law in California this would have opened the door for handgun abolition efforts across the country. Instead, because of the National Rifle Association's Institute for Legislative Action this gun-law bill was defeated by a margin of nearly 2 to 1. Another Constitutional amendment in New Hampshire, making clear the individual right to keep and bear arms, was passed by 72 percent of the voters. Such defeats of ardent supporters of gun-laws has only been a set-back. These Luciferians never quit. Patriotic Americans must become aware of the issues of the day, so that they can gain knowledge of how to fight for their rights. We are at war, but this is a spiritual battle, not a physical one. We are not to raise our 30.06 at these conspirators, but our voice in government!
[1] Rock, Bob Larson, p.132 [2] Ibid. p.133 [3] Ibid. p.137 [4] Ibid. p.135 [5] Ibid. p.135 [6] The Death of a Nation, Stormer, p.9 [7] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.64 [8] Ibid. p.64 [9] The Peoples Almanac #2, Wallechinsky/Wallace, Bantam Books Inc. 1978, p.1339,1340 [10] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.65 [11] Ibid. p.69 [12] The Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine, Hall, July 1982, p.485 [13] Ibid. p.485 [14] The American Peoples Encyclopedia, Vol.17, Spencer Press Inc. 1953, p.17-328 [15] None Dare Call it Conspiray, Allan, p.46,47 [16] Ibid. p.47,48 [17] Fourth Reich of the Rich, Griffin, p.91 [18] Collier's Encyclopedia, Vol.9, 1961, p.571 [19] Council on Foreign Relations Inc. Annual Report 1979-1980, p.2 [20] The Peoples Almanac, Wallechinsky, p.449 [21] The World Book Encyclopedia, Vol.20, p.24 [22] Ibid. p.40 [23] Encyclopedia Americana, Grolier International Inc. 1980, p.680-681 [24] American Hunter, February 1983, National Rifle Association, p.44
[conclusion] [illuminati - 4a] << New Age & the Illuminati - 666 >>
