# In Search of Shambhala

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_shambahla06.htm

by Mary Sutherland
June 2003
from LivingInTheLight Website
Spanish version
There Lies a World Hidden There Lies a World Hidden, Mysterious, unknown, and forbidden. Where dwells entities with technologies beyond our comprehension, And knowledge kept hidden from us, in this other dimension. Will the truth ever be revealed? Earthly forces of power and greed want forever sealed, Forbidden knowledge for warfare to wield. When humankind understands, To use the knowledge acquired from these strange lands. For the benefit of humankind, Then entrance into their world we will find. Frank Scassellatii
There Lies a World Hidden There Lies a World Hidden, Mysterious, unknown, and forbidden. Where dwells entities with technologies beyond our comprehension, And knowledge kept hidden from us, in this other dimension. Will the truth ever be revealed? Earthly forces of power and greed want forever sealed, Forbidden knowledge for warfare to wield.
When humankind understands, To use the knowledge acquired from these strange lands. For the benefit of humankind, Then entrance into their world we will find.
Frank Scassellatii
Contents
Introduction
Chapter 1 - Prophesies of Shambhalla
Chapter 2 - The Location of Shambhalla
Chapter 3 - Shambhalla and The Hollow Earth
Chapter 4 - Entrances and Tunnel Systems
Chapter 5 - The Shambhala Energy
Chapter 6 - Earth Energies and Ley Lines
References
Return to Shambahla
Return to Alien Races
Return to Temas / Libros
Return to The Lucis Trust
Never feeling quite at home here on the earth plane, our souls stir up restless feelings from within, ever pushing us forward on a life quest for the illusive Shambhalla or what the Western World call El Dorado or Shangri La. Shambhalla is a paradise where our own dreams can come true. Most laugh the idea of the mythological kingdom of Shambhalla off as a fairy tale or myth, but there are others, myself included, that consider the possibility that this idea of paradise may actually exist. This magical kingdom will only reveal itself to believers, pure in heart. What does this mean? It means that the reader must shed all their past traditional beliefs and open their minds and hearts to the possibilities of the invisible worlds beyond our senses of reality. The Western World has been conditioned to see first, then believe, but in the Search for Shambhala you must believe first. The Golden Age is upon us now. The secrets and prophecies of Shambhala will open our eyes to what is ahead for us. These secrets and prophecies shall constitute the theme behind my latest book, In Search of Shambhala. Mary Sutherland
Never feeling quite at home here on the earth plane, our souls stir up restless feelings from within, ever pushing us forward on a life quest for the illusive Shambhalla or what the Western World call El Dorado or Shangri La.
Shambhalla is a paradise where our own dreams can come true. Most laugh the idea of the mythological kingdom of Shambhalla off as a fairy tale or myth, but there are others, myself included, that consider the possibility that this idea of paradise may actually exist. This magical kingdom will only reveal itself to believers, pure in heart. What does this mean? It means that the reader must shed all their past traditional beliefs and open their minds and hearts to the possibilities of the invisible worlds beyond our senses of reality. The Western World has been conditioned to see first, then believe, but in the Search for Shambhala you must believe first. The Golden Age is upon us now. The secrets and prophecies of Shambhala will open our eyes to what is ahead for us. These secrets and prophecies shall constitute the theme behind my latest book, In Search of Shambhala.
Mary Sutherland
Go Back
Chapter One Prophesies of Shambhalla
Shambhalla is part of our soul's memory, thus it is imbedded in our collective consciousness. Through the Ages, around the world, stories have been passed down about this mythological kingdom. The mythical paradise of Shamballa, sometimes thought to be in a parallel world or dimension, is a land of a thousand names.
The Hindus call it "Paradesha" or "Aryavarsha", the land from which the Vedas came from the Buddhists "Shambala" the Chinese know it as "Hsi Tien", the Western Paradise of Hsi Wang Mu, the Royal Mother of the West the Russians knew it as "Belovodye" and "Janaidar" the Christians and the Jews the "Garden of Eden"
The Hindus call it "Paradesha" or "Aryavarsha", the land from which the Vedas came from
the Buddhists "Shambala"
the Chinese know it as "Hsi Tien", the Western Paradise of Hsi Wang Mu, the Royal Mother of the West
the Russians knew it as "Belovodye" and "Janaidar"
the Christians and the Jews the "Garden of Eden"
In the esoteric literature it has become known as "Shangri-La", "Agarttha" or "the Land of the Living". It has the name of,
the "Forbidden Land" the "Land of White Waters" the "Land of Radiant Spirits" the "Land of Living Fire" the "Land of the Living Gods" the "Land of Wonders"
the "Forbidden Land"
the "Land of White Waters"
the "Land of Radiant Spirits"
the "Land of Living Fire"
the "Land of the Living Gods"
the "Land of Wonders"
It is regarded by most esoteric traditions as the true center of the planet, as the world's spiritual powerhouse and the heartland of a brotherhood of adepts.
Call it what you will, but let it be described as the home for immortals; a place where the Will of God is known; a celestial kingdom that holds our very destiny. It is our past. It is our future and exists in our present. What is above so shall it be below. Just as we are dual in nature so is our beautiful Shamballa. It exists in our physical realm, in our spiritual realm and hidden in a parallel dimension.. Shambhalla is known by the Celtics as the mystical Avalon, hidden in the mists of illusion. Once our home, now mostly forgotten except in our dreams, our soul still goes there for healing and revitalization. It is a land without time, full of power and mystery, offering enlightenment to the traveler that is fortunate enough to enter its gates. Maya, the Goddess of Illusion give us our clue to unlock its door.
First you must remember, find the key, and then escape
The world is a labyrinth and few will find the egress, but for the seeker of truth the entrance to Shambhalla is possible. Its path is archaic, but tried, tested and true.
We first need to remember why we are here. That our existence on this earth plane is nothing but an illusion...a alchemical laboratory of transmutations. It is here that we prepare ourselves for our destiny... a destiny outside the illusion of Maya.
Use your time wisely on this plane, burn off the old karma and learn to appreciate life's lessons. The people of Tibet and Mongolia believe that Shambhala is a hidden kingdom with a community where perfect and semiperfect beings live, guiding the evolution of mankind. It is the gateway between the physical and spiritual world, hidden from the non believer by a psychic barrier. Beneath the land of Shambhalla lies a cavernous underworld...
Its summit aligns to the wheeling constellation of Ursa Major, the Seven Stars that circle the Pole. Through our history, people of the world have sought to find this realm of cosmic harmony hidden within the veils of Avalon. They literally tried to bring heaven to earth by building temples and pyramids in the center of their cities to function as patterns of this paradise. The Sumerians built a temple which was called The House of the Mountain and knew it as the bond of heaven and earth. The central hub bound the heavens, underworld and human world together. Seven tiers led up to the shrine on its summit, which mirrored the legend of the seven gated underworld below. What is above, so shall be below. Glastonbury in southwest England was once one of these cosmic centers.
The summit on the strange shaped hill of Glastonbury Tor is the site of a holy shrine predating any medieval church.
click image for detail of tower
Glastonbury Tor
Local legends have it that an entrance to Annwn, the British/Welshname for the Underworld is located here.
In recent years evidence of a seven-tiered labyrinth encircling the Tor (mouse on image right), from base to summit, has been uncovered. This area has been frequented as a place of power going back as far as the Bronze Age and beyond. Shambhalla is considered to be the source of the Kalacakra, which is the highest and most esoteric branch of Tibetan mysticism. According to the Kalachakra Tantra Prophecy, a line of enlightened kings guard the highest wisdoms for the time when all spiritual values in the outside world are lost in wars and destruction.
At that time, a great king will come out of the Shambhalla kingdom to defeat the forces of evil and establish the Golden Age. The prophecy of Shambhalla gives us a hint of the coming Golden Age. There will be 32 kings, each reigning for a 100 years. As their reigns pass conditions, of the world will deteriorate. Wars will break out in the pursuant of power.
Materialism will overcome spiritualism and spread over the world. Then the 'barbarians' who follow this ideology of power and materialism are united under one evil king, assuming there is nothing left to conquer. When this time comes, the mists will then lift to reveal the icy mountains of Shambhala.
Seeing the promised lands of Shambhalla, the barbarians will then attack Shambhalla with a huge army equipped with terrible weapons.
The 32nd king of Shambhala, Rudra Cakrin, The Wrathful One with the Wheel will rise from his throne and lead a mighty host against the invaders destroying the army of barbarians.
After the battle has been won, the rule of Shambhalla will cover the world, bringing in the greatest Age of all times. Food will grow without work, there will be no disease or poverty, hatred and jealousies will be replaced with love and the great saints and sages of the past will return to life to teach true wisdom of the Ages. Rudka Cakrin is known as the Cakravartin or the possessor of the wheel. This wheel supposedly is a wheel of iron that falls from the sky to mark the beginning of his reign. Some may see this wheel of iron falling from the sky as a metaphor where others may view this quite literally as an Alien Craft. In the Kalachakra, one can find the necessary teaching provided for preparation of the prophesized war. We find in it the psychology of invasions and detailed instructions on how to build various machines to ward off the invaders. The sacred texts go on to say the Dark Age will last until the year 2424 AD, when a great war will begin in India.
The human race will be rescued from total destruction by the armies of Shambhalla riding flying horses and boats that fly in the air. Again these could be metaphors, but I lean more to the texts describing UFOs. There are sacred texts also called mind termas which are hidden within the minds of mankind. I suspect they are imbedded in our DNA, as untapped memories. The mind termas will be released to us through meditation and/or states of sleep. It has been prophesized that some of the discoverers of these texts will actually wake up from sleep with pages physicallyin their hands.
Anyone that has knowledge of the apportation phenomenon will realize that this does happen.
* I experienced an apportation of sorts over ten years ago when I lived in Arizona. I awoke from my sleep one morning holding a small crystal quartz, which I physically brought out of a dream of myself being in the Great Hall of Wisdom. There are similar tales telling us that individuals capable of visiting Shambhalla in a meditative state will similarly return with physical objects previously unknown on earth.
Chapter Two The Location of Shambhalla
Although some will make claim that Shambhalla exists only within your heart and mind there are those that would differ.
The idea that Shambhalla is located in the material world is firmly rooted in Tibetan tradition. However the opinions as to its location differ considerably. Tibetan texts appear to show historical facts about Shambhalla. The data recorded in these texts give names, dates and corresponding events occurring in the outside world. The Hindus and Buddhist alike regard Mount Meru, located in the Himalayas, as the location of Shambhalla. It is the center of the cosmos, having its roots in hell and its summit in heaven.
The mountain peak houses a magnificent central palace radiating a powerful, diamond like light, which is the home of Indra, King of Hindu gods. Legends tell of her slopes being studded with glittering gemstones and thick with trees heavy with delicious fruit. She is circled by seven rings of golden mountains, each separated from the other by one of seven circular oceans. This entire superstructure rises from an outer ocean, and is flanked by four main continents, each with two subcontinents.
The southern continent, Jambudvipa, corresponds to the physical earth. Each of the other continents represents a nearby planet upon which transmigrating souls following the yellow light-path may be reborn. Tibetan religious texts tell us that the technology of Shambhalla is supposed to be highly advanced; the palace contains special skylights made of lenses which serve as high-powered telescopes to study extraterrestrial life, and for hundreds of years Shambhallas inhabitants have been using aircraft and cars that shuttle through a network of underground tunnels.
On the way to enlightenment, Shambhallans acquire such powers as clairvoyance, the ability to move at great speeds, and the ability to materialize and disappear at will. Andrew Tomas, author of 'Shambhalla, Oasis of Light', writes,
This remarkable kingdom reputedly exists both above and below ground, with a network of tunnels hundreds of miles long. Cars of strange design flash along their length and they are illumined by a brilliant, artificial light which affords growth to the grains and vegetables and long life without disease to the people.
Hebrew legends speak of a place called Luz which is described as an underground city near a sacred mountain called the 'abode of immortality'. Some Tibetans think Shambhalla might be in Tibet, perhaps in the Kunlun mountains; others point toward the region around Mongolia and Sinkiang province of China. Others believe it to in Siberia or some other part of Russia. Some lamas claim that it is hidden in the frozen Artic. Others believe Shambhalla only exists in an parallel universe or higher dimension. In the years between 1923 and 1928, Nicholas Roerich, led an expedition across the Gobi Desert to the Atlai mountain, a journey which covered 15,500 miles across 35 of the worlds highest mountain passes.
It is rumored that he may have been on a mission to find and return what was said to be part of the sacred 'Chintamani Stone,' which was believed to be part of a magical meteorite from the solar system in the constellation of Orion. According to Lamaist legend, a fragment of this stone from what may be the star Sirius, is sent wherever a spiritual mission vital to humanity is set up, and is returned when that mission is completed.
The stone is said possess occult properties, capable of giving telepathic inner guidance and effecting a transformation of consciousness to those in contact with it. Whether he retrieved the stone or not is not known, but what we do know for certain is that he was sent in search of it by the League of Nations. Just in the fact that he was sent on this expedition lends credibility to the existence of the Shambhalla legends. Roerich was a man of great creditability.
To his credit, he was a philosopher, author, explorer, member of the Theosophical Society, member of the League of Nations, influential in the FDR administration and was the pivotal force behind placing the Great Seal of the United States on the American dollar. He also produced hundred of paintings capturing the essence of the area and its people. Roerich strove to link all scientific and creative disciplines to advance true culture and international peace, citing the power of art and beauty to accomplish such a feat. In honor of his efforts, in 1935 The Roerich Peace Pact was established, which obligated nations to respect museums, cathedrals, universities and libraries as they did hospitals, and became part of the United Nations organizational charter. In his travels through China and Mongolia to the borders of Tibet, Roerich met with a lama that described Shambhalla to him.
According to this famous explorer, Roerich was told,
'Great Shambhalla is far beyond the ocean. It is the mighty heavenly domain. It has nothing to do with our Earth... Only in some places, in the Far North, can you discern the resplendent rays of Shambhala.'
Going on, the lama described it as a 'far-off valley', hidden in the midst of high mountains, with hot springs and rich vegetation.
Then he stated the ruler of Shambhalla is ever vigilant in the cause of mankind. He sees all the events of earth in his 'magic mirror' and 'the might of his thought penetrates into far-off lands'.
Continuing, he goes on to say,
'Uncountable are the inhabitants of Shambhalla. Numerous are the splendid new forces and achievements which are being prepared there for humanity.'
This lama confirmed that messengers from Shambhalla are at work in the world, and that even the ruler of this great kingdom sometimes appears, in a human form, to mankind.
He stressed that the secrets of Shambhalla are well guarded, and that it is impossible for anybody to reach Shambhalla unless their karma is ready and they are called. Although Roerich may have only heard the legend of Shambhalla from the lama, the explorer later went on to report that he discovered a subterranean society of Aghartians.
Aghartians was a civilization of over 20 million people living throughout all the subterranean passages of the world. According to David Pratt, Mysteries of the Inner Earth, Roerich spent a time examining the inner kingdoms, caverns and empty lava chambers through the studying the local folk lore and talking to those familiar with the area and these legends which included tales of lost tribes and subterranean dwellers. He came to realize that the attributes assigned to the underworld ranged from heavenly to hellish, and its inhabitants from super to sub human.
With all the stories he was able to collect, it came to him that one story seemed quite common. The same story kept surfacing about people abandoning the surface finding refuge in the subterranean world where they found passageways leading to inner earth kingdoms.
Many of these people still live there, coming to the surface rarely. Great is the belief in the Kingdom of the subterranean people. There is rumored to be a vast underground network of caves and tunnels under the whole of Central Asia, with many passages radiating out from the spiritual hub of Shambhala. According to popular belief, there are numerous secret subterranean passages beneath India, whose entrances are guarded by elementals which assume the shape of rocks or other natural features. According to H.P Blavatsky, Mesoamerica and South America are honeycombed with long, mysterious tunnels, some of them running for hundreds of miles, from Columbia in the north through Peru and Bolivia to Chile in the south, and to the Amazon jungle in the east. Only a few sections of these tunnels have so far been discovered.
She goes on to say that there is an immense tunnel running from Cuzco to Lima in Peru, and then extending south into Bolivia. In Egypt, a vast subterranean world is traditionally believed to extend from the catacombs of Alexandria to Thebes' Valley of the Kings. The subterranean crypts of Thebes were known as the serpent's catacombs, the serpent representing the ancient wisdom religions. The Native American believe that their ancestors came out of the earth, after they had taken refuge in caverns to escape past cataclysms. The Cherokee Indians speak of a subterranean world much like our own, with mountains, rivers, trees, and people.
The Aztecs said their ancestors came from a land called Aztlan, and that after escaping its destruction they ended up in a cavern called Chicomoztoc, or the Seven Cavern Cities of Gold, where they lived before emerging to the surface world.
The Mexican demi-god Votan describes a subterranean passage, a 'snake's hole', which runs underground and terminates at the root of the heavens; he himself was allowed to enter it because he was a 'son of the snakes' The Hopi Indians hold their rituals in an underground chamber known as the kiva in honor of their ancestors life in the inner world. They believe there has been a succession of four worlds. The first world was destroyed by fire, the second by a poleshift, and the third by flooding. Some chosen people were saved from the disasters that destroyed the first two worlds by taking refuge underground, and some survived the destruction of the third world by being sealed inside hollow reeds.
The Pima Indians also speak of the emergence into our world through a spiral hole that was bored up to the earth's surface. Legends of ancestral origins in subterranean lands are also found in Africa and Australia.
Australian aborigines believe their ancestors came up out of the ground, travelled about the country and created new tribes, then,
'ultimately journeyed away beyond the confines of their territory, or went down into the ground again'.
According to the native traditions of the Caroline Islands, Papua New Guinea, and Malaysia, a subterranean race of giants went underground in ancient times.
Once inhabitants of the lost continent of Chamat, they will one day 'emerge and remake the world'. Natives of the Trobiand Islands believe that their ancestors emerged from a subterranean existence through a special hole. Tribes in Bengal and Burma also believe their ancestors emerged from a subterranean world.
Hitler also made attempts to locate and enter the gates of Shambhalla... The idea of Shambhalla and its occult knowledge was an obsession to him. The roots of his occult desires can be traced far back into his youth where he studied the occult and yoga in Vienna. The young Hitler received initiation into the American Indian Peyote Cult.
After he was introduced to The Secret Doctrine, he then turned his attention more to Theosophy. Later he joined the occult group in Germany called Ultima Thule, out of which the Nazi Party was born. Upon assuming power, Hitler established the ministry of Ancestral Memories, headed by the Chairman of the Sanskrit Department at Munich University.
Through this connection with Sanskrit studies, the Nazis adopted the swastika, an ancient symbol of good luck and well being. Although many believe that Hitler designed this emblem it is a fact that the Hindu, Buddhist and Jain worlds had honored this symbol for thousands of years prior to the Nazi movement. With the help of the explorer Sven Hedlin, Hitler sent several expeditions to Tibet. The Nazis claimed that although Shambhalla was inaccessible to them, they also made contact and gained help from the mystical kingdom of Agartha. It was reported that the leaders held a ceremony led by a man with the keys to Argatha.
The Theosophists Society believes Shambhalla to be the seat for the Brotherhood of Adepts. Shambhalla sends forth messengers and teachers to work among mankind for the advancement of spiritual growth.
Surrounded by an akashic veil, the theosophists claim it has several locations here on earth. One location is 'situated in the highlands of Asia, somewhere to the westward of the meridian line passing through Lhassa'. Long ago, this locality was a sacred island in a vast Central Asian inland sea, known as the 'abyss of learning' or 'sea of knowledge', and was accessible via subterranean passages. According to tradition, this place exists to this day as an oasis surrounded by the Gobi desert.
The second location is Mount Meru or Sumeru. It is the north pole of the earth, so chosen not for its geographical qualities, but because of its astrological position. It is the mystical north pole, geographically identical with the north pole of the earth, but mystically quite different.
Theosophical literature also states that there is an even higher Shambhala located in the sun, and that all these different localities are inhabited by classes of entities with which the human race is spiritually and intellectually interconnected. In Hindu mythology Meru is the mystical mountain at the center of the world, where Indra, king of the gods, resides. However, so as not to get confused, Meru actually has several different meanings, including a Mount Meru in Asia, the north geographical pole, the north celestial pole, the earth's spin axis, the world axis connecting earth to higher realms, and the cerebrospinal axis of the human body... The Egyptians, Akkadians and Indians also believe that Meru has its opposite.
The Artic Meru, known as Sumeru, is the dwelling place of the gods and the Antartic Meru, known as Kumeru is the dwelling place of demons. Meru, the Olympus of the Indians, is said to be situated in the center of the earth. It is guarded by serpents, which 'watched the entrance to the realm of Secret Knowledge'. It is the 'land of bliss' of the earliest Vedic times.
Occult teachings 'place it in the very center of the North Pole, pointing it out as the site of the first continent on our earth, after the solidification of the globe. In the ancient astronomical text Surya-Siddhanta, Meru is described as,
'passing through the middle of the earth-globe, and protruding on either side.'
That other side, the Southwestern American Hopi Indians believe is their sacred Black Mesa. H.P. Blavatsky says that Meru is not,
"the fabulous mountain in the navel or center of the earth,"
...but its roots and foundations are in that navel, though it is in the far north itself. This connects it with the "central" land "that never perishes."
She continues,
'According to Tibetan tradition the White Island is the only locality which escapes the general fate of other dwipas and can be destroyed by neither fire nor water, for - it is the "eternal land"'
The earth is powered by a life source giving off electro-magnetic energy.
This energy (blood of mother earth) is distributed through the body through veins which we call ley lines, giving life to everything. The heart which pumps the blood is found in the 'centre' or 'navel' of the earth...
The Caretaker of Earth, Shambhalla, has been described as a main power center with auxiliary centers scattered about the globe, linked by subterranean passageways. Unknown to the surface people lives humans that the 'gods' created.
According to the Chaldean Account of Genesis.
Human beings... the great gods created, and in the earth the gods created for them a dwelling. In the midst of the earth they grew up and became great, and increased in number, Seven kings, brothers of the same family...'
Iranian, Indian, Chinese, Scandinavian, Native American Indian, Mayan and Aztec literature also make references to Inner Earth civilizations of Shambhalla. The Japanese also have a Shambhalla which they have named Island of the Congealed Drop. It is situated on the top of the globe' but at the same time 'at the center of the earth'. Its first roof-pillar was the earth's axis, and over it was the pivot of the vault of heaven. The Chinese actually describe their idea of Shambhalla as the Center of the Earth, directly under Shang-te's heavenly palace, declaring it to be in the polestar. They also call it, The Palace of the Center. The Egyptians located their Ta Neter, or Land of the Gods, in the extreme North. Lets take into consideration the Legend of Santa Claus or Saint Nick. Although long forgotten the reasoning behind it, our children still send letters to Santa addressed to the North Pole. North of the Himalayas is a version of Shambhalla, Uttarakuru or northern Kuru.
It is described as the blissful land of the sages towards which Arjuna, the warrior prince of the Bhagavad-Gita, travelled in search of enlightenment. Magic fruit trees yielded the nectar of immortality. It is one of four regions surrounding Mount Meru and is the homeland of the Siddhas, enlightened yogis famed for their miraculous powers. Greek mythology has their own version of Shambhala as well. Greek mythology introduces us to what is known as Hyperborean Land. The land of eternal summer and favorite home of Apollo.. According to the Orphics, the Island of Electris, the seat of the gods, lies under the polestar in the furthest waters of Tethys. The Mandean Gnostics believed that an ideal earth with eternal light was the home of a divine race of super humans. This was reported to be located in the North, separated from our world by a high mountain of Ice. The Avestan term 'Airyanem Vaejah' designates the cradle land of the Aryan-Iranians. It supposed to be located not in any of the earth's seven climates, but at the center of the central zone, the eighth climate.
It was there that the 'first man', received the command to construct a vara, or enclosure, where the most highly developed humans, animals, and plants would be gathered in order to save them from the deadly winter unleashed by the demonic powers (nuclear winter brought on by atomic warfare) so that they might one day rebuild the world.
This vara or paradise had a gate and luminescent windows which secreted an inner light within. It was illuminated by both uncreated and created lights.
This vara in most likelihood is a space craft.
Chapter Three Shambhalla and the Hollow Earth Our Earth is honeycombed with vast networks of natural and unnatural (man and alien made) tunnels and caves. Seismic sonar instruments have detected what we now call The Great Road, located miles beneath the earths surface. This is a gigantic, globe-spanning ribbon around the earth, made of a series of caves.
Thousands of meters wide and hundreds thick, this ribbon encircles earth horizontally at the equator and vertically around the poles. Mobil Oil geologists found Cyclopean underground cities at two intersections, located beneath the jungles of equatorial Ecuador and an ocean trench off the southern coast of Malaysia. These highly advanced cities, complete with hieroglyphics and pictographs, predate not only dinosaurs but even the vertebrates. Even deeper within the Earths interior is found the cities of Agharti, Shambhalla and the Caesars. While few have come back to tell the stories of Shambhalla, there have been expeditions that have penetrated Agharta, an initiatory center for Shambhalla. The Buddhist describe Agharta as a great kingdom of peace and tranquility with a population reaching into the millions. A world of astonishing beauty, with inner suns, underground lakes and palaces made from the purest crystal.
Crops are irrigated by special waters and the powerful rays of the Great Light produced by a secret machine given to them by gods thousands of years ago. The idea of underground worlds is nothing new. Even Columbus believed that all waters flowed towards the poles where they became replenished and redirected in their course. The earliest account we have of this land of mystery and illusion dates back to year 4 BC. Apollonius of Tyana, a mystic Greek physician, was given a secret map of what was called The City of the Gods by a priest. Not wasting any time and despite the dangers, Apollonius immediately set of in search of this kingdom. . Traveling through Mesopotamia and Babylon, he reached India where he employed the services of a local guide to take him deep into the Himalayan mountains. Suddenly after fifteen days of arduous walking the scenery around them changed dramatically.
In his book 'We Are Not The First', author Andrew Thomas sets the scene:
The path by which they had come disappeared after them. The countryside shifted its position and they seemed to be in a place preserved by illusion.
Met by a boy who answered them in Greek the pair were then presented to the ruler of this amazing land.
With a warm welcome he bade them to accompany him on a tour of his kingdom, and completely spell bound, the pair were shown incredible marvels of a world few outsiders had ever seen or imagined. Majestic pillars of light shot skywards, and radiant stones provided constant light.
Philostratus, who was Apollonius biographer describes feats of levitation and complicated robot-like machines serving food and drink as they sat down to eat.
As they did so the ruler proudly announced:
You have come to men who know everything.
According to Philostratus these men,
were living on the Earth and at the same time not on it.
Upon his return to the west Apollonius immediately set about challenging the Roman authorities.
This placed him on a dangerous footing. Nero was now Emperor, and dissenters were harshly dealt with. On several occasions Apollonius was only saved by the strange powers he now seemed to have acquired. Summoned before a tribunal in Rome the chief prosecutor was about to read from the scroll outlining Apollonius offences when suddenly the page turned blank.
Terrified this was some sort of divine portent the authorities immediately dropped all charges and Apollonius was allowed to go free.
On another occasion Apollonius was ordered before the Emperor Domitian, charged with un-Roman activities. Seemingly nonchalant to his fate Apollonius stood before the crowded court of three hundred witnesses and confidently proclaimed: You can detain my body, but not my soul, and I will add, not even my body. Suddenly there was a bright flash and Apollonius vanished from sight. Nicholas Roerich claimed that he was aware of caves in the Himalayan foothills with subterranean passages leading to these subterranean cities. Found in one of these passages is a stone door shall remain sealed until a future time. What lies behind that door only a 'selected few' know and they are not about to give away its secret. People have been searching for the legendary Shambhalla for ages.
Some have ventured into the unknown never to return. Either these people had found the ultimate happiness and chose to stay or they may have been destroyed in their search. There are perils that obstruct the path to this city of promise. Many have lost their lives by being swallowed by crevasses, caught in avalanches, killed by wild animals or maybe even something sub-human or supernatural.
We find references from various religions, myths, legends and folklore pointing out that the path to paradise is sabotaged with perils. Its inhabitants range from superhuman to subhuman and the underworld is a maze of multiple dimensions. In Central Asia, a vast network of caves and tunnels are rumored to be running under its ground. Many subterranean passages run beneath India. Varanasi (Benares), ancient name of Kashi, is said to be connect by a tunnel to Gupta Kashi (gupta meaning secret or hidden), an underground city in the Himalayans. The people of India believe these passageways are guarded by the elementals that assume the shape of rocks or other natural features.
The Native American Indians commonly believe that these same type of elementals guard the underground passageways found in the Superstition Mountains of Arizona. Mesoamerica and South America are honeycombed with tunnels, some of them running for hundreds of miles, from Columbia in the north through Peru and Bolivia to Chile in the south, and to the Amazon Jungle in the east. H.P. Blavatsky mentions an immense tunnel running from Cuzco to Lima in Peru, and then extending south into Bolivia In Egypt, a large subterranean world is traditionally believed to extend from the catacombs of Alexandria to Thebes' Valley of the Kings. Many Native American peoples believe that their ancestors came from the womb of Mother Earth, where they were sent by the gods to escape past cataclysms that were taking place on the earth's surface. They later resurfaced through a hole in the Earth. These emergence places on earth are called 'cenotes.' A cenote is a very very deep hole filled with water. In the Yucatan there is one of these found at Chichen Itza. Another one can be found outside Sedona, Arizona, USA, at Montezuma's Well. The Mandans of the northwestern United States, some of whom has blue eyes and silky hair, tell the story of the first man to emerge from the tunnels in their area. They were called the Histoppa or 'tattooed ones.' Having left safety too soon, they perished. The rest remained below until a bright light broke the darkness on the surface. The Hopi believe that the world we live in is the Fourth World and the other three are inside the earth.
In stages, and through many hardships, they emerged from a hole called Sipapu. This emergence site, found at the bottom of the Canyon of the Little Colorado above its junction with the Colorado River, is a sacred place of pilgrimage for the Hopi. It lies in the Four Corners Area. Another Hopi legend tells of them also emerging from a world beneath the earth through a tunnel located at the base of the San Francisco Peaks near Flagstaff, Arizona. The Hopi legends say that their ancestors were driven to the surface by another faction of their own kind who turned on their own and was practicing sorcery.
A clue to who that factor of their own kind was may be found in the Apache legends which state that the Two Hearts or the Children of the Lizard drove the Pueblos to the surface after they invaded their underground domain. The Lakota Tribes in the US Central Plains also believe they came up out of the Earth at a location named Harney Peak in the Black Hills. The Pajaritan Pueblo Indians have a Legend that they emerged from earths womb near the Great Sand Dunes in Colorado. They then traveled down the Rio Grande, setting up Pueblos. The area now known as Los Alamos, was considered evil. It was the home of the underworld Little People, as known by ufologists as Deros.
From these people would come the curse of 'The Gourd of Death. The Navajo legends state they once lived Underground, together with the Coyoteros and the White people, below a mountain near Silverton, Colorado. After coming to the surface they went south and settled in the canyons of the Dinetah area, near Navaho Dam, between Aztec and Dulce, New Mexico. According to New Mexican Myth, Montezuma was born near Tao and allegedly trained by beings who lived in caverns, inside Pueblo Peak. The Aztecs tell of their ancestors coming from a land called Aztlan. After escaping its destruction they ended up in a cavern called Chicomoztoc, or the Seven Cavern Cities of Gold. This is where they lived before emerging to the surface Australian aborigines believe their ancestors came up out of the ground and traveled about the country creating new tribes. This belief also lies with the tribes Bengal, Burma, Caroline Islands, Papua New Guinea and Malaysia. Plato tells us of many cavities and 'wonderful regions' in the earth, and of subterranean flows of water, mud, and fire.
He says,
"One of the cavities in the earth is not only larger than the rest, but pierces right through from one side to the other."
It is of this that Homer speaks when he says,
'Far, far away, where lies earth's deepest chasm'.
He and other poets refer to it as Tartarus, the land of the dead. The Greeks believed that the lands of the living were divided from Tartarus by fierce obstacles, rivers, and bodies of water or fire. The greatest of these was Oceanus, which not only comprised all the seas of the world, but was also the largest of the 'rivers' which the Greeks believed swept into and through Tartarus, emerging from the underworld on the opposite side of the earth.
Other subterranean torrents included Lethe, the river of forgetfulness, and the Styx, the river of death. Tartarus was said to 'sink twice as far below the earth as the earth was beneath the sky', and to be bounded by many perils. Tartaras was also the home of the dethroned gods, the Titans.
It contained a variety of regions or kingdoms, ranging from the Elysian Fields to the many grottoes, caverns, and pits of torment reserved for the damned. The Scandinavian and Germans seen the world as a large yew or ash tree with it's limbs and roots spreading into many planes of existence. The World Tree's, Yggdrasil, roots went deep down into subterranean kingdoms, all of which bordered a vast primordial void called Ginnungagap.
One root of Yggdrasil led into Niflheim, the land of the dead. Similar to the Greeks belief, many waters flowed out from the depths and into the human world; in Niflheim it was the spring/river Hvergelmir which boiled and churned relentlessly. The 11 tributaries of the Hvergelmir emptied into the central void of Ginnungagap.
The second of Yggdrasil's roots found its way into the lands of the gods, Asgard and Vanaheim. While often pictured as a land high in Yggdrasil's branches, this realm was also subterranean. In fact, the only world of Norse cosmology that is not subterranean is that of Midgard (middle earth), the surface world. Bifrost, the 'rainbow bridge', stretched from Midgard across Ginnungagap into Asgard In the Sumerian, Epic of Gilgamesh, the underworld was filled with a wide range of beings, including spirits, the undead, humanoids, and savage guardians.
In his search for everlasting life, Gilgamesh first had to reach the mountain of Mashu, connected with the heavens above and the netherworld below. Having been allowed to enter the 'gate', he descended into the bowels of the earth through 12 double-hours of darkness before reaching 'an enclosure as of the gods', filled with brilliance and a garden made entirely of precious stones. The Bible makes many references to the Inner Worlds:
Philippians 2:10, Revised Standard Version: .. at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth... Revelation 5:3: And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it... Matthew 12:40: For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Philippians 2:10, Revised Standard Version: .. at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth...
Revelation 5:3: And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it...
Matthew 12:40: For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
In the Book of Enoch, Enoch speaks of proceeding to,
'the middle of the earth', where he beheld a 'blessed land', 'happy and fertile' (25:1, 26:1).
'the middle of the earth', where he beheld a 'blessed land', 'happy and fertile'
(25:1, 26:1).
An angel shows him.
'the first and last secrets in heaven above, and in the depths of the earth: In the extremities of heaven, and in the foundations of it, and in the receptacle of the winds' (59:2-3).
'the first and last secrets in heaven above, and in the depths of the earth: In the extremities of heaven, and in the foundations of it, and in the receptacle of the winds'
(59:2-3).
There are said to be cavities in the earth and 'mighty waters' under it (65:1, 87:5, 95:2). Following is the Persian Legend of the Koh-Kaf Mountains taken from the pages of Blavatskys book, The Secret Doctrine:
Whatever they may be in their geographical status, whether they are the Caucasian or Central Asian mountains, it is far beyond these mountains to the North, that legend places the Daevas [giants] and Peris; the latter the remote ancestors of the Parsis or Farsis. Oriental tradition is ever referring to an unknown glacial, gloomy sea, and to a dark region, within which, nevertheless, are situated the Fortunate Islands, wherein bubbles, from the beginning of life on earth, the fountain of life. But the legend asserts, moreover, that a portion of the first dry island (continent), having detached itself from the main body, has remained, since then, beyond the mountains of Koh-Kaf, 'the stony girdle that surrounds the world.' A journey of seven months' duration will bring him who is possessed of 'Sulayman's ring' to that 'fountain,' if he keeps on journeying North straight before him as the bird flies. Journeying therefore from Persia straight north, will bring one along the sixtieth degree of longitude, holding to the west, to Novaya Zemlya; and from the Caucasus to the eternal ice beyond the Arctic circle would land one between 60 and 45 degrees of longitude, or between Novaya Zemlya and Spitzbergen. This, of course, if one has the dodecapedian horse of [King] Hoshang or the winged Simurgh [a marvellous bird, the Persian phoenix] of Tahmurath (or Taimuraz) [third king of Persia], upon which to cross over the Arctic Ocean.* Nevertheless, the wandering songsters of Persia and the Caucasus will maintain, to this day, that far beyond the snow-capped summits of Kap, or Caucasus, there is a great continent now concealed from all. That it is reached by those who can secure the services of the twelve-legged progeny of the crocodile and the female hippopotamus, whose legs become at will twelve wings;* or by those who have the patience to wait for the good pleasure of Simurgh-anke, who promised that before she dies she will reveal the hidden continent to all, and make it once more visible and within easy reach, by means of a bridge, which the Ocean Daevas will build between that portion of the 'dry island' and its severed parts.* This relates, of course, to the seventh race, Simurgh being the Manvantaric cycle. * Bailey thought she saw in this horse as a twelve-oared ship...
Whatever they may be in their geographical status, whether they are the Caucasian or Central Asian mountains, it is far beyond these mountains to the North, that legend places the Daevas [giants] and Peris; the latter the remote ancestors of the Parsis or Farsis.
Oriental tradition is ever referring to an unknown glacial, gloomy sea, and to a dark region, within which, nevertheless, are situated the Fortunate Islands, wherein bubbles, from the beginning of life on earth, the fountain of life. But the legend asserts, moreover, that a portion of the first dry island (continent), having detached itself from the main body, has remained, since then, beyond the mountains of Koh-Kaf, 'the stony girdle that surrounds the world.'
A journey of seven months' duration will bring him who is possessed of 'Sulayman's ring' to that 'fountain,' if he keeps on journeying North straight before him as the bird flies. Journeying therefore from Persia straight north, will bring one along the sixtieth degree of longitude, holding to the west, to Novaya Zemlya; and from the Caucasus to the eternal ice beyond the Arctic circle would land one between 60 and 45 degrees of longitude, or between Novaya Zemlya and Spitzbergen.
This, of course, if one has the dodecapedian horse of [King] Hoshang or the winged Simurgh [a marvellous bird, the Persian phoenix] of Tahmurath (or Taimuraz) [third king of Persia], upon which to cross over the Arctic Ocean.*
Nevertheless, the wandering songsters of Persia and the Caucasus will maintain, to this day, that far beyond the snow-capped summits of Kap, or Caucasus, there is a great continent now concealed from all.
That it is reached by those who can secure the services of the twelve-legged progeny of the crocodile and the female hippopotamus, whose legs become at will twelve wings;* or by those who have the patience to wait for the good pleasure of Simurgh-anke, who promised that before she dies she will reveal the hidden continent to all, and make it once more visible and within easy reach, by means of a bridge, which the Ocean Daevas will build between that portion of the 'dry island' and its severed parts.*
This relates, of course, to the seventh race, Simurgh being the Manvantaric cycle.
* Bailey thought she saw in this horse as a twelve-oared ship...
Chapter Four Entrances and Tunnel Systems Agharta (Argarti) is said to be the mysterious under ground kingdom located in Asia and linked to the other continents of the world by a gigantic network of underground tunnels.
Although some have been destroyed due to world cataclysms, many are still left today and are in use. The following are thought to be some of these entrances and tunnels.
Afghanistan According to British explorer T. Wilkins, the Mongolian tribes of Inner Mongolia believe that there are entrances to a great tunnel system that leads to a subterranean world of Antediluvian descent somewhere in a recess of Afghanistan An entrance to the inner earth tunnels is thought to be reached through an abandoned elevator shaft in Manhattan, New York. Only a few know where the exact location is and I am not one of them. Canada Another entrance is found in the Nahanni Valley but many of those that have dared to enter this area have been found decapitated, thus giving the region its name The Valley of the Headless Men. The Nahanni Valley in Canada is the land of the Ojibways, the Slave, Dogribs, Stoney, the Beavers and the Chipweyans. It covers 250 square miles in the southern end of the Mackenzie Mountains of Canada and lies almost 550 miles due west of Fort Simpson on the Mackenzie River of northwest Canada. Hot springs and sulfur geysers keep the valley warmer than the surrounding areas by about 30 degrees year-round. This land of perpetual mist is viewed by the Indians as taboo and avoided. Arkansas In northern Arkansas, a 12-man speleological team broke into an ancient tunnel system, encountering inhabitants of the inner-world. Just north of Batesville, explorers found a tunnel illuminated by a greenish phosphorescence where they met a race of beings who stood 7 to 8 feet tall and had bluish skin. The beings, who have advanced technology, told the explorers they are the direct descendents of Noah. The Cherokee Indians also tell of this same race of blue men. According to the Cherokee they inhabited the areas of Kentucky as well. When the Cherokee came into that area, they killed these blue skinned men off. Apparently the Cherokee were wrong in their assumptions. California Southwestern California holds the legend of Crystal Cave, a large cavern that links to Kokoweek Peak. It was reportedly found by Earl Dorr, a miner and prospector who followed clues given to him by Indians. Dorr entered Crystal Cave in the thirties and followed a passage down into Kokoweef Mountain for about a mile. Here he entered a large cavern that he explored for a distance of eight miles. Flowing at the base of the cavern was a river and its banks were rich with deposits of gold. For reasons only known to Dorr, he dynamited the entrance. The exact location of this sealed entrance is unknown today The Liyobba Cave The Livobba Cave is located in the province of Zapoteca, somewhere near the ancient village of Mictlan (the village of the Underworld). The village of Liyobba, translated, means The Cavern of Death. The Cavern of Death was located in the last chamber of an eight chamber building or temple. This temple had four rooms above the ground and four more important chambers built below the surface of the Earth. This building was located in Theozapotlan and the tunnel entrance leads beneath the mountain. Catholic priests in an earlier period of time descended into the caves with lit torches. They discovered what seemed to be an endless passageway with bones strewn before them from others that had come before them. As they advanced into the mountain, they were assailed with the smell of putrid air and snakes. As they continued forth, a strong cold wind blew their torches out, leaving them in the dark and causing them to take flight hurriedly back out of the cave. In retreating from the cave, the priest claimed they heard ghastly noises coming from within. When they managed to finally exit, the priest declared the cave home of devils and ordered the entrance be forever sealed. The Maltese Cave This entrance, known as Hypogeum of Hal Saflienti, is located on the island of Malta, near the village of Casal Paula, which overlooks the town of Malta. In 1902, workmen digging a well in Casal Paula reportedly fell into a subterranean cavern which connected to an entire complex of caves and tunnels. This discovery led to be a complex of cave, three of which were a series of chambers excavated out of solid rock on three even lower levels for each chamber. This series of underground rooms. When first explored, they found over 30,000 skeletons of men, woman and children inside. The tunnels under the Hypogeum were later sealed off after 30 students entered the caves on a field trip and disappeared without a trace. The numerous efforts of search parties looking for the children and guide were in vain. The Staffordshire, England Somewhere in Staffordshire, England a field exists where a man, while digging a trench, discovered a large iron plate beneath the dirt. The "hatch" was large and oval, with an iron ring mounted on it. This hatch covered an entrance leading into underground tunnels. The only clue we have to its location is that the field is in a valley surrounded by woods and that a report of its discovery can be found in "A History of Staffordshire" by Dr. Plot, who wrote the book in the late 1700s. The Dulce, New Mexico Base An underground Military Base/Laboratory in Dulce, New Mexico connects with the underground network of tunnels which honeycombs our planet, and the lower levels of this base are allegedly under the control of Inner Earth beings or Aliens. This base is connected to Los Alamos research facilities via an underground "tube-shuttle" Beginning in 1947, a road was built near the Dulce Base, under the cover of a lumber company. The odd things is, according to sources, no lumber was ever hauled, and the road was later destroyed. Navajo Dam is the Dulce Base's main source of power, though a second source is in El Vado, which is also another entrance. This information should help you locate the underground complex, if of course you feel brave enough to venture onto the Dulce properties. Most of the lakes near Dulce were made via government grants "for" the Indians. The September, 1983 issue of Omni (Pg. 80) has a color drawing of 'The Subterrene,' the Los Alamos nuclear-powered tunnel machine that burrows through the rock, deep underground, by heating whatever stone it encounters into molten rock, which cools after the Subterrene has moved on. The result is a tunnel with a smooth, glazing lining. * Although evidence has been found of this machine, there is no signs of molten rock and the concept ceased being used after 1983 There are over 100 Secret Exits near and around Dulce. Many around Archuleta Mesa, others to the source around Dulce Lake and even as far east as Lindrich. Deep sections of the Complex connect into natural Cavern Systems. (Note: The elevators, lights, and doors at Dulce Base are all magnetically controlled.) The area around Dulce has had a high number of reported "Animal Mutilations." The researchers at Dulce Base have also abducted several people from Dulce's civilian population and implanted devices of various types in their heads and bodies. (Note: Livermore Berkeley Labs began producing blood for the Dulce Base in the mid 1980s, and human and animal have now slowed considerably. DELTA group, from the National Recon Group, is responsible for security of all Alien-connected projects. The DELTA symbol is a Black Triangle on a Red Background. Dulce Base's symbol is a Delta (triangle) with the Greek Letter "Tau" (t) within it, and then the entire symbol is inverted, so the triangle points down. A very active UFO base exists beneath Mt. Ranier. There are also said to be underground "vaults" containing records of the ancient Lemurians. The ice cap of Mt. Ranier contains a maze of corridors and caves. In August of 1970, scientists climbed to the top of Mt. Ranier, and entered these caverns and tunnels. Evidence was found indicating that a small lake exists deep beneath the ice cap. The Mt. Lassen Mt. Lassen, Tehama County, California is an entrance leading to a large underground city. Near the foot of Mt. Lassen is a town called Manten. Ralph Fields, Manten, found this entrance and claims that it is in the side of the mountain, a little over 7,000 feet above sea level, and is near a rock outcropping. Death Valley, CA. This entrance is supported by the local Indian Legend which speaks of a tunnel that runs beneath Death Valley Desert and the people that used to live in the Panamints caverns. The entrance is in the Panamint Mountains down on the lower edge of the range near Wingate Pass, in the bottom of an old abandoned shaft. These tunnels connect with the surface also through arched windows in the side of the mountain that look down on Death Valley. During ancient times, these windows were accessible by boat. The "windows" in the Death Valley side of the Panamint Mountains are about 4,500-5,000 feet above the bottom of Death Valley, and are across from Furnace Creek Ranch. From these openings you can see the green of the ranch below you and Furnace Creek Wash across the valley (so, with high-powered binoculars or a telescope, you should be able to see the openings from the Furnace Creek Ranch, or Wash.) You can drive down Emigrant Canyon towards Death Valley. You can then park beside the road between Furnace Creek Ranch and the Salt Bed (from here, the windows should be visible through binoculars.) The Brown Mountain Entrance Brown Mountain is in North Carolina near Morganton. Morganton is "about 15 miles north of an actual highway marker which has been posted by the state providing any visitor the best view" of Brown Mountain. Brown Mountain is an area in which many strange lights have been seen. Canadian UFO Bases and the Great Lakes Triangle Entrances at Lake Ontario may lead to underwater cities. The Toronto Tunnels lead to a subterranean city and Lake Ontario "Lights" Orange-colored spheres have been seen coming out of and diving into Lake Ontario. The area of highest activity is between Oakville and Toronto. There may be a connection to the Lakeview Hydro-electric plant, as many of these UFOs have been seen heading in that direction. Toronto Entrance: There is a small opening to the underground tunnels off Parliament Street in downtown Toronto. The entrance is between two apartment buildings, and leads to the tunnels via the sewers. The underground city beneath Toronto has its center beneath Gerrard Street and Church Street. Above this area, strange magnetic effects have been observed. It has been noted that this corner of Gerrard & Church streets seems to have a higher accident rate than anywhere else in Toronto. It is also believed that underground equipment utilizing powerful magnetic fields are responsible for the bizarre equipment failures that often are the cause of these accidents. These tunnels are known by the local Indians and can be found in their legends. After an iron mine, in Newfoundland Province, had been dug deeper than any other, strange things began occurring and the mine had to be shut down. It is now condemned and off-limits which the police strictly enforce. The mining town is located near the Newfoundland-Quebec Border. Sneaking in late at night seems to be the only way to gain entrance. Brazil You can find one tunnel in Brazil near Ponte Grosse in the state of Parana. Another entrance is near Rincon, also in the state of Parana. In the state of Santa Catarina, near the city of Joinville. Is a mountain that has an entrance to the tunnels. The Santa Catarina is an area alive with noises coming from underground. There are reports that in Santa Catarina subterranean fruit orchards can be found. There is also another entrance found in the state of Sao Paulo near Concepiao. The local legend is that the states of Santa Catarina and Parana are honeycombed by a net of Atlantean tunnels that lead to subterranean cities. Manaus, Brazil Mato Grosso, Brazil - Beneath its plain lies the city of Posid. Igua Falls, Border of Brazil and Argentina. Mount Shasta, California, USA The Agharthean city of Telos allegedly exists within and beneath this mountain. Hopi legends say that this mountain is one of the thirteen homes of the Lizard People, Reptoids. Native American Indian tribes of California claim that Mount Shasta is the inner-mountain dwelling place of an invisible race of men. Still more accounts describe the mountain as an inlet to the ancient Lemurian world and that the Lemurian survivors still live today in the tunnels of dead volcanoes. Some suggest that it is a meeting place for the Lothinian Brotherhood, who use a strange force, vis mortuus, to carve caverns out of solid rock, which sounds very similar to the equipment used at Dulce, New Mexico. In 1904, J.C. Brown, an explorer for a British mining company, reported that he had discovered a caved in hollow in the side of the mountain complete with one skeleton and hieroglyphic writings on the walls. Brown later quit his job and settled in Stockton, where he lived out his life selling gold trinkets that he claimed to have in the Mt. Shasta cave. In 1934, Abraham Mansfield said he encountered a tribe of Lemurians, who had dug tunnels connecting Mount Shasta and the Bluff Creek area. A man from San Jose, while hiking on the southern slope, in 1972, came across what he described as "a reptilian humanoid." Other visitors to the mountain have reported seeing various sub-human cultures including dwarfs, big-foot or yeti type creatures and giants dressed in white robes. On August 16, 1987, believing the mountain to be one of the seven major planetary chakras of spiritual tuning forks, thousands came together as part of an international "Harmonic Convergence," designed to bring peace to the whole world. White Sands Missile Base Rumored to have an underground complex and tunnels is in the area around the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. This area is reported to have been the secret headquarters of the great Apache Chief Victorio and is named after him, Victoria Peak. From what I understand, the army bulldozed the peak out and placed a steel door over the entrance to the mountain passageways. I dont know if this was to keep people from going inside or if it was to keep someone or something inside from coming out. Maybe it was a little of both. Hard Scrabble and Geronimo Peak are also honeycombed with tunnels, caves and secret entrances. The Hard Scrabble entrance leads down a flight of steps to an underground river. Himalayan Mountains, Tibet The entrance to the underground City of Shonshe is guarded by the Hindu monks. Mongolia The underground City of Shingwa exists beneath the borders of Mongolia and China. Rama, India Beneath this surface city lies Rama, a long lost subterranean city. Benares, India While the entrance to Bhogavati is somewhere in the Himalayas, it has been asserted that Patala can be entered through the Well of Sheshna in Benares, India. According to herpetologist and author Sherman A. Minton, as stated in his book Venomous Reptiles, this entrance is very real, with forty steps which descend into a circular depression, to terminate at a closed stone door which is covered in bas-relief cobras. Tibet There is a major mystical shrine also called 'Patala.' Hidden under the shrine is an ancient cavern and tunnel system, which reaches throughout the Asian continent and possibly beyond. Superstition Mountains, Arizona Another area to be investigated is the Superstition Mountains in Arizona. Geronimo would be seen walking into the face of the Mountain, disappearing and then reappearing in New Mexico. The soldiers which were hell bent on capturing the illusive Apache Chief were mystified as to how he was able to escape the human net surrounding him and his band. The tunnel systems of the Superstitions are dangerous though and are rumored to be inhabited by Reptilian-type Creatures and supernatural forces. Those that claim to have penetrated the tunnel tell of the remains of ancient structures and a spiral staircase that leads forever down into the bowels of earth. The main entrance to the Superstition tunnel system links to numerous tunnel passageways which spider web out as far as Central America. Glastonbury, Britain Known for centuries as Avalon, Glastonbury is legended to have an entrance to Annwn, the British/Welsh name for the Underworld. Turkey In Turkey the discovery of a massive underground city at Derinkuyu revealed a stunning complexity of deep passage ways constructed on at least ten separate levels. Some estimates believe there was adequate living space for at least 20,000 people. Precisely what purpose this city served or when it was constructed is hard to determine. Others: Dero Caves Four Corners in Southwestern USA Kentucky Mommoth Cave, in South-Central Kentucky King Solomon's Mines Mount Epomeo, Italy North and South Poles Pyramid of Giza, Egypt
Afghanistan According to British explorer T. Wilkins, the Mongolian tribes of Inner Mongolia believe that there are entrances to a great tunnel system that leads to a subterranean world of Antediluvian descent somewhere in a recess of Afghanistan An entrance to the inner earth tunnels is thought to be reached through an abandoned elevator shaft in Manhattan, New York. Only a few know where the exact location is and I am not one of them.
Canada Another entrance is found in the Nahanni Valley but many of those that have dared to enter this area have been found decapitated, thus giving the region its name The Valley of the Headless Men. The Nahanni Valley in Canada is the land of the Ojibways, the Slave, Dogribs, Stoney, the Beavers and the Chipweyans. It covers 250 square miles in the southern end of the Mackenzie Mountains of Canada and lies almost 550 miles due west of Fort Simpson on the Mackenzie River of northwest Canada. Hot springs and sulfur geysers keep the valley warmer than the surrounding areas by about 30 degrees year-round. This land of perpetual mist is viewed by the Indians as taboo and avoided.
Arkansas In northern Arkansas, a 12-man speleological team broke into an ancient tunnel system, encountering inhabitants of the inner-world.
Just north of Batesville, explorers found a tunnel illuminated by a greenish phosphorescence where they met a race of beings who stood 7 to 8 feet tall and had bluish skin. The beings, who have advanced technology, told the explorers they are the direct descendents of Noah. The Cherokee Indians also tell of this same race of blue men.
According to the Cherokee they inhabited the areas of Kentucky as well. When the Cherokee came into that area, they killed these blue skinned men off. Apparently the Cherokee were wrong in their assumptions.
California Southwestern California holds the legend of Crystal Cave, a large cavern that links to Kokoweek Peak. It was reportedly found by Earl Dorr, a miner and prospector who followed clues given to him by Indians. Dorr entered Crystal Cave in the thirties and followed a passage down into Kokoweef Mountain for about a mile. Here he entered a large cavern that he explored for a distance of eight miles.
Flowing at the base of the cavern was a river and its banks were rich with deposits of gold. For reasons only known to Dorr, he dynamited the entrance. The exact location of this sealed entrance is unknown today
The Liyobba Cave The Livobba Cave is located in the province of Zapoteca, somewhere near the ancient village of Mictlan (the village of the Underworld). The village of Liyobba, translated, means The Cavern of Death.
The Cavern of Death was located in the last chamber of an eight chamber building or temple. This temple had four rooms above the ground and four more important chambers built below the surface of the Earth. This building was located in Theozapotlan and the tunnel entrance leads beneath the mountain.
Catholic priests in an earlier period of time descended into the caves with lit torches. They discovered what seemed to be an endless passageway with bones strewn before them from others that had come before them.
As they advanced into the mountain, they were assailed with the smell of putrid air and snakes. As they continued forth, a strong cold wind blew their torches out, leaving them in the dark and causing them to take flight hurriedly back out of the cave. In retreating from the cave, the priest claimed they heard ghastly noises coming from within.
When they managed to finally exit, the priest declared the cave home of devils and ordered the entrance be forever sealed.
The Maltese Cave This entrance, known as Hypogeum of Hal Saflienti, is located on the island of Malta, near the village of Casal Paula, which overlooks the town of Malta.
In 1902, workmen digging a well in Casal Paula reportedly fell into a subterranean cavern which connected to an entire complex of caves and tunnels.
This discovery led to be a complex of cave, three of which were a series of chambers excavated out of solid rock on three even lower levels for each chamber. This series of underground rooms. When first explored, they found over 30,000 skeletons of men, woman and children inside.
The tunnels under the Hypogeum were later sealed off after 30 students entered the caves on a field trip and disappeared without a trace. The numerous efforts of search parties looking for the children and guide were in vain.
The Staffordshire, England Somewhere in Staffordshire, England a field exists where a man, while digging a trench, discovered a large iron plate beneath the dirt. The "hatch" was large and oval, with an iron ring mounted on it.
This hatch covered an entrance leading into underground tunnels. The only clue we have to its location is that the field is in a valley surrounded by woods and that a report of its discovery can be found in "A History of Staffordshire" by Dr. Plot, who wrote the book in the late 1700s.
The Dulce, New Mexico Base An underground Military Base/Laboratory in Dulce, New Mexico connects with the underground network of tunnels which honeycombs our planet, and the lower levels of this base are allegedly under the control of Inner Earth beings or Aliens. This base is connected to Los Alamos research facilities via an underground "tube-shuttle"
Beginning in 1947, a road was built near the Dulce Base, under the cover of a lumber company. The odd things is, according to sources, no lumber was ever hauled, and the road was later destroyed. Navajo Dam is the Dulce Base's main source of power, though a second source is in El Vado, which is also another entrance. This information should help you locate the underground complex, if of course you feel brave enough to venture onto the Dulce properties.
Most of the lakes near Dulce were made via government grants "for" the Indians. The September, 1983 issue of Omni (Pg. 80) has a color drawing of 'The Subterrene,' the Los Alamos nuclear-powered tunnel machine that burrows through the rock, deep underground, by heating whatever stone it encounters into molten rock, which cools after the Subterrene has moved on.
The result is a tunnel with a smooth, glazing lining.
* Although evidence has been found of this machine, there is no signs of molten rock and the concept ceased being used after 1983
There are over 100 Secret Exits near and around Dulce. Many around Archuleta Mesa, others to the source around Dulce Lake and even as far east as Lindrich. Deep sections of the Complex connect into natural Cavern Systems.
(Note: The elevators, lights, and doors at Dulce Base are all magnetically controlled.)
The area around Dulce has had a high number of reported "Animal Mutilations." The researchers at Dulce Base have also abducted several people from Dulce's civilian population and implanted devices of various types in their heads and bodies.
(Note: Livermore Berkeley Labs began producing blood for the Dulce Base in the mid 1980s, and human and animal have now slowed considerably.
DELTA group, from the National Recon Group, is responsible for security of all Alien-connected projects. The DELTA symbol is a Black Triangle on a Red Background. Dulce Base's symbol is a Delta (triangle) with the Greek Letter "Tau" (t) within it, and then the entire symbol is inverted, so the triangle points down.
A very active UFO base exists beneath Mt. Ranier.
There are also said to be underground "vaults" containing records of the ancient Lemurians. The ice cap of Mt. Ranier contains a maze of corridors and caves. In August of 1970, scientists climbed to the top of Mt. Ranier, and entered these caverns and tunnels.
Evidence was found indicating that a small lake exists deep beneath the ice cap.
The Mt. Lassen Mt. Lassen, Tehama County, California is an entrance leading to a large underground city. Near the foot of Mt. Lassen is a town called Manten. Ralph Fields, Manten, found this entrance and claims that it is in the side of the mountain, a little over 7,000 feet above sea level, and is near a rock outcropping.
Death Valley, CA.
This entrance is supported by the local Indian Legend which speaks of a tunnel that runs beneath Death Valley Desert and the people that used to live in the Panamints caverns. The entrance is in the Panamint Mountains down on the lower edge of the range near Wingate Pass, in the bottom of an old abandoned shaft.
These tunnels connect with the surface also through arched windows in the side of the mountain that look down on Death Valley. During ancient times, these windows were accessible by boat. The "windows" in the Death Valley side of the Panamint Mountains are about 4,500-5,000 feet above the bottom of Death Valley, and are across from Furnace Creek Ranch. From these openings you can see the green of the ranch below you and Furnace Creek Wash across the valley (so, with high-powered binoculars or a telescope, you should be able to see the openings from the Furnace Creek Ranch, or Wash.)
You can drive down Emigrant Canyon towards Death Valley. You can then park beside the road between Furnace Creek Ranch and the Salt Bed (from here, the windows should be visible through binoculars.)
The Brown Mountain Entrance
Brown Mountain is in North Carolina near Morganton. Morganton is "about 15 miles north of an actual highway marker which has been posted by the state providing any visitor the best view" of Brown Mountain.
Brown Mountain is an area in which many strange lights have been seen.
Canadian UFO Bases and the Great Lakes Triangle Entrances at Lake Ontario may lead to underwater cities. The Toronto Tunnels lead to a subterranean city and Lake Ontario "Lights" Orange-colored spheres have been seen coming out of and diving into Lake Ontario.
The area of highest activity is between Oakville and Toronto. There may be a connection to the Lakeview Hydro-electric plant, as many of these UFOs have been seen heading in that direction.
Toronto Entrance:
There is a small opening to the underground tunnels off Parliament Street in downtown Toronto. The entrance is between two apartment buildings, and leads to the tunnels via the sewers. The underground city beneath Toronto has its center beneath Gerrard Street and Church Street.
Above this area, strange magnetic effects have been observed. It has been noted that this corner of Gerrard & Church streets seems to have a higher accident rate than anywhere else in Toronto. It is also believed that underground equipment utilizing powerful magnetic fields are responsible for the bizarre equipment failures that often are the cause of these accidents.
These tunnels are known by the local Indians and can be found in their legends.
After an iron mine, in Newfoundland Province, had been dug deeper than any other, strange things began occurring and the mine had to be shut down. It is now condemned and off-limits which the police strictly enforce.
The mining town is located near the Newfoundland-Quebec Border. Sneaking in late at night seems to be the only way to gain entrance.
Brazil You can find one tunnel in Brazil near Ponte Grosse in the state of Parana. Another entrance is near Rincon, also in the state of Parana.
In the state of Santa Catarina, near the city of Joinville. Is a mountain that has an entrance to the tunnels. The Santa Catarina is an area alive with noises coming from underground.
There are reports that in Santa Catarina subterranean fruit orchards can be found. There is also another entrance found in the state of Sao Paulo near Concepiao.
The local legend is that the states of Santa Catarina and Parana are honeycombed by a net of Atlantean tunnels that lead to subterranean cities.
Manaus, Brazil Mato Grosso, Brazil - Beneath its plain lies the city of Posid. Igua Falls, Border of Brazil and Argentina.
Manaus, Brazil
Mato Grosso, Brazil - Beneath its plain lies the city of Posid.
Igua Falls, Border of Brazil and Argentina.
Mount Shasta, California, USA The Agharthean city of Telos allegedly exists within and beneath this mountain.
Hopi legends say that this mountain is one of the thirteen homes of the Lizard People, Reptoids. Native American Indian tribes of California claim that Mount Shasta is the inner-mountain dwelling place of an invisible race of men.
Still more accounts describe the mountain as an inlet to the ancient Lemurian world and that the Lemurian survivors still live today in the tunnels of dead volcanoes.
Some suggest that it is a meeting place for the Lothinian Brotherhood, who use a strange force, vis mortuus, to carve caverns out of solid rock, which sounds very similar to the equipment used at Dulce, New Mexico.
In 1904, J.C. Brown, an explorer for a British mining company, reported that he had discovered a caved in hollow in the side of the mountain complete with one skeleton and hieroglyphic writings on the walls. Brown later quit his job and settled in Stockton, where he lived out his life selling gold trinkets that he claimed to have in the Mt. Shasta cave.
In 1934, Abraham Mansfield said he encountered a tribe of Lemurians, who had dug tunnels connecting Mount Shasta and the Bluff Creek area.
A man from San Jose, while hiking on the southern slope, in 1972, came across what he described as "a reptilian humanoid."
Other visitors to the mountain have reported seeing various sub-human cultures including dwarfs, big-foot or yeti type creatures and giants dressed in white robes. On August 16, 1987, believing the mountain to be one of the seven major planetary chakras of spiritual tuning forks, thousands came together as part of an international "Harmonic Convergence," designed to bring peace to the whole world.
White Sands Missile Base Rumored to have an underground complex and tunnels is in the area around the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. This area is reported to have been the secret headquarters of the great Apache Chief Victorio and is named after him, Victoria Peak.
From what I understand, the army bulldozed the peak out and placed a steel door over the entrance to the mountain passageways. I dont know if this was to keep people from going inside or if it was to keep someone or something inside from coming out. Maybe it was a little of both.
Hard Scrabble and Geronimo Peak are also honeycombed with tunnels, caves and secret entrances. The Hard Scrabble entrance leads down a flight of steps to an underground river.
Himalayan Mountains, Tibet The entrance to the underground City of Shonshe is guarded by the Hindu monks.
Mongolia The underground City of Shingwa exists beneath the borders of Mongolia and China.
Rama, India Beneath this surface city lies Rama, a long lost subterranean city.
Benares, India
While the entrance to Bhogavati is somewhere in the Himalayas, it has been asserted that Patala can be entered through the Well of Sheshna in Benares, India. According to herpetologist and author Sherman A. Minton, as stated in his book Venomous Reptiles, this entrance is very real, with forty steps which descend into a circular depression, to terminate at a closed stone door which is covered in bas-relief cobras.
Tibet
There is a major mystical shrine also called 'Patala.' Hidden under the shrine is an ancient cavern and tunnel system, which reaches throughout the Asian continent and possibly beyond.
Superstition Mountains, Arizona Another area to be investigated is the Superstition Mountains in Arizona. Geronimo would be seen walking into the face of the Mountain, disappearing and then reappearing in New Mexico. The soldiers which were hell bent on capturing the illusive Apache Chief were mystified as to how he was able to escape the human net surrounding him and his band.
The tunnel systems of the Superstitions are dangerous though and are rumored to be inhabited by Reptilian-type Creatures and supernatural forces. Those that claim to have penetrated the tunnel tell of the remains of ancient structures and a spiral staircase that leads forever down into the bowels of earth. The main entrance to the Superstition tunnel system links to numerous tunnel passageways which spider web out as far as Central America.
Glastonbury, Britain Known for centuries as Avalon, Glastonbury is legended to have an entrance to Annwn, the British/Welsh name for the Underworld.
Turkey In Turkey the discovery of a massive underground city at Derinkuyu revealed a stunning complexity of deep passage ways constructed on at least ten separate levels.
Some estimates believe there was adequate living space for at least 20,000 people. Precisely what purpose this city served or when it was constructed is hard to determine.
Others:
Dero Caves Four Corners in Southwestern USA Kentucky Mommoth Cave, in South-Central Kentucky King Solomon's Mines Mount Epomeo, Italy North and South Poles Pyramid of Giza, Egypt
Dero Caves
Four Corners in Southwestern USA
Kentucky Mommoth Cave, in South-Central Kentucky
King Solomon's Mines
Mount Epomeo, Italy
North and South Poles
Pyramid of Giza, Egypt
Chapter Five The Shambhala Energy H.P. Blavatsky, believed her spiritual instructions came to her from the ascended masters of Shambhalla. These masters gave to the world the Mantra of Christ which we call The Great Invocation.
Alice Bailey describes this mantra in the following:
"The Invocation or Prayer does not belong to any person or group but to all humanity. The beauty and the strength of this Invocation lies in its simplicity, and in its expression of certain central truths which all men, innately and normally, accept: the truth of the existence of a basic Intelligence to Whom we vaguely give the name of God; the truth that behind all outer seeming, the motivating power of the universe is Love; the truth that a great Individuality came to earth, called by Christians, the Christ, and embodied that love so that we could understand; the truth that both love and intelligence are effects of what is called the Will of God; and finally the self-evident truth that only through humanity itself can the Divine Plan work out." The Great Invocation From the point of Light within the Mind of God Let light stream forth into the minds of men. Let Light descend on Earth. ------------ From the point of Love within the Heart of God Let love stream forth into the hearts of men. May Christ return to Earth. ------------ From the centre where the Will of God is known Let purpose guide the little wills of men -- The purpose which the Masters know and serve. ------------ From the centre which we call the race of men Let the Plan of Love and Light work out And may it seal the door where evil dwells. ------------ Let Light and Love and Power restore the Plan on Earth.
"The Invocation or Prayer does not belong to any person or group but to all humanity. The beauty and the strength of this Invocation lies in its simplicity, and in its expression of certain central truths which all men, innately and normally, accept: the truth of the existence of a basic Intelligence to Whom we vaguely give the name of God; the truth that behind all outer seeming, the motivating power of the universe is Love; the truth that a great Individuality came to earth, called by Christians, the Christ, and embodied that love so that we could understand; the truth that both love and intelligence are effects of what is called the Will of God; and finally the self-evident truth that only through humanity itself can the Divine Plan work out."
The Great Invocation From the point of Light within the Mind of God Let light stream forth into the minds of men. Let Light descend on Earth. ------------ From the point of Love within the Heart of God Let love stream forth into the hearts of men. May Christ return to Earth. ------------ From the centre where the Will of God is known Let purpose guide the little wills of men -- The purpose which the Masters know and serve. ------------ From the centre which we call the race of men Let the Plan of Love and Light work out And may it seal the door where evil dwells. ------------ Let Light and Love and Power restore the Plan on Earth.
Numerology explains the message of The Great Invocation for us.
Five is its root value and is the root value of the 21 key words, (capitalized). There are five stanzas. Mankind is in the fifth root race and it is the fifth kingdom of the Hierarchy that is trying to help humanity. Our five senses are represented as is the five-pointed star of initiation, symbol of the perfected human. There are seven sentences in the Invocation. This total is in relationship to the seven rays that operate the Earth, the total of seven root-races, seven rounds of existence, seven globes of development and seven chains within each planetary scheme.
Seven represents the relative perfection of man before attaining Christ-Consciousness.
"From the point of Light within the Mind of God" refers to the Oversoul, the God in all. "From the point of Love within the Heart of God " refers to the Hierarchy on a Cosmic level. "From the centre where the Will of God is known" refers to Shambhala.
"From the point of Light within the Mind of God" refers to the Oversoul, the God in all.
"From the point of Love within the Heart of God " refers to the Hierarchy on a Cosmic level.
"From the centre where the Will of God is known" refers to Shambhala.
Shambhala is the planetary center where the Will of God is known.
It is the most powerful force that pours into our world. Only twice in Earths history has the Shambhala energy made its presence felt directly. Once during the Lemurian Age, when mankind was suffering a human crisis and secondly in the Days of Atlantis, during a time when there was a great struggle between the Forces of Light and the Forces of darkness. Through the Shambhala Force, we find that we are not alone to fight the Forces of Darkness.
Shambhalas energies are opening our minds and eyes, teaching us that we are not alone in the universe and that there are infinite number of other dimensions with civilizations much more advanced than ourselves. The lost Wisdom of the Ages are being returned to us and the old souls are being reincarnated as teachers and guides to help mankind. Shambhala is releasing the energies of will or power (energy of the first divine, the Christ Consciousness) upon the land. The energy of the will is the potency of the life in all beings. In the past it has only been permitted to make contact with 'the substance of humanity' via the Hierarchy. Now, direct impact has been permitted. World War II was the first evidence of the Shambhala energy, which allowed issues to be brought to light thus creating a change in old traditions. This energy is exceedingly strong and must be spoon fed but so far mankind has done remarkably well under its influence. As time progresses, however, the impact of the Shambhala force will become even more frequent as mankind develops the power to stand and withstand its power. There was a large direct impact in 1975 and also in the year 2000.
Each time Shambhala directs its energies into the human consciousness more of the divine plan comes to light, bringing forth further spiritual growth. This energy brings about synthesis, which hold all things within the circle of divine love. Its impact has brought about human thinking more concerned with the production of unity and the attainment of synthesis in all human relations.
One result of its impact was the forming of the United Nations.
Chapter Six Earth Energies and Ley Lines Ley lines are literally rivers of energy that not only flow through the earth but between worlds and universes.
They have been likened to the veins of the Megaverse, while others see them as a universal transportation system. They are attracted to places where they naturally attune to, known as nexus points. The Ancients seen the stars as major sources of magical energy. Suns tend to be intra-system node points for ley lines but the energy flows outward from them and not into them. Many mages believe that at the center of each star is a small pinpoint which intersects with the no dimensional space where the Ancient Ones are being held.
Solar and lunar events provide erratic ley lines. In areas of intense gravity, such as pulsars and other warped stars, ley line energy tends to pool to a much greater degree. Ley lines tend to follow loosely the demands of gravity, but they have been known to do extremely strange things. Nothing prevents these lines from running through a planetary core, underwater or solid objects. On a planetary scale, the lines tend to form a web of fairly consistent lines based on all of the magical hotspots around the planet. Just as lines pool around holy sites, they also follow psychic hotspots. Sometimes these weak lines never attach to any others and eventually bleed off into the environment, but it has been known that in many cases the weaker lines attach themselves to the stronger lines, becoming a permanent addition to the webwork.
Ley lines vary in intensity depending upon the geographical makeup of an area, such as mineral deposits, underground streams and gravitational forces. Depending upon the location, ley lines will either support life or be detrimental to it.
Every valid sacred site has been found to have water under it.
There are two type of water, however. There is the water table water which is regarded as rain water absorbed by the earth. The other is called is called the primary water which is created in the bowels of earth as the by-product of various chemical reactions. This water is forced under pressure towards the surface of Earth in what dowsers call domes.
In Great Britain the domes are called blind springs. They could be described to be like geysers that dont reach the surface.
The water continues an upward journey until it hits a layer of rock or clay. The pressure then forces the water out (horizontally) in what dowsers call veins through cracks and fissures in the rocks. One can find primary water under every valid holy site.
* When these veins of water reach the surface they are considered to be holy wells, places of healing and spiritual contemplations.
These sacred sites are purposely located over primary water as a result of our ancestors using dowsers. They are also known to have energy leys flowing along them. Energy leys are normally six to eight feet wide, and are rivers of energy that run in a straight line. Since the beginning of time, we have used the power of these alignments.
Washington D.C. is intentionally aligned to receive the full benefit of the energy lines power, utilizing the Lincoln Memorial, the Tidal Basin Pool and the Dome of the Rotunda over the Capital. In the sixth century, Pope Gregory, in a letter to those who were to carry Catholicism to Britain, cautioned these missionaries NOT to destroy the ancient sites. Gregory wanted them to destroy their idols, but insisted they build the churches on the older holy places, thereby automatically linking alignment to the ley lines and maintaining the power sources.
Well aware of these energies, the Benedictine abbeys and monasteries were built on major power centers. Monte Cassino in Italy is one, as is Monserrat. Monserrat was thought to have been the castle of the Holy Grail. At Fulda, in Germany, St. Boniface founded a Benedictine Abbey and from Fulda Christianity was spread throughout Central Germany.
The Native American Indians are still tuned into these energies.
The Hopi, in Arizona, with their sacred Kivas know about it and the Iroquois of New York locate their Medicine Wheels and other sacred places at power centers. The forces of nature do not discriminate. He who has the knowledge, hold the power, whether it be of the dark side or light. On its darker side we have Adolph Hitler. As his Aryan Race Master Plan, Hitler researched folk customs and geomancy; first to learn more about their Aryan forefathers and later to control Europe geomantically. In Germanien, a Nazi Germanic Culture magazine, there were numerous articles by people like Josef Heinsch who wrote about such things as the heilige linien (holy lines). Hitler established the Duetsche Ahnenerbe, the German Ancestral Heritage Organization, to study the spirit of the people, the land of the Nordic Indo-Germanic (Aryan) race inhabited and to get other Germans interested and involved in its study. Wilhelm Teudt, head of the Ahnenerbe, worked closely with Heinrich whom was head of the dreaded Nazi SS.
Teudt visited Himmler at Wewelsburg, the SSs Grail Castle in Saxony.
Wewelsburg, the SSs Grail Castle in Saxony
The circular Nordturm (North Tower) of this geomantically designed triangular castle was said to be the center of the earth. It was built to support the Nazi Aryan race doctrines. Himmler, Albert Speer, Hitlers architect and other Nazis experiment with geomancy throughout Europe in an attempt to control that part of the world. The Fuhrerhauptquartier Wolfsschanze, Hitlers main headquarters was intentionally constructed on an ancient holy power well, at the crossing of two leys. One example of the Nazis belief in geomancy happened during the German rush to take Moscow.
At one point, a detachment of mountain troops were diverted to place the Nazi flag on top of a strategically unimportant mountain, Mt. Elbruz. But for the Nazis, this mountain was very important. The Persians, Aryan stock, believed that Mt. Elbruz was a world mountain, center of the Earth Energies. Himmler was convinced that if the Nazi swastika controlled Elbruz, they could better control the Russians. When it was realized how heavy the Nazis were into the occult, the Allies began using the same principles in an effort to undermine his powers.
They enlisted the help of adepts to undo the damage of the Nazi movement. It was for this reason Wellesley Tudor Pole initiated the Silent Minute in Britain during WWII. Each evening at nine, all of Britain stopped for one minute and focused their energies to pray for peace.
* Bush also used this same concept using the school children to pledge allegiance to the flag at a certain time every day, after the WTC was attacked and we went to war in Afghanistan.
At this moment, when all of Britain was as one, created an especially clear channel between the visible and invisible worlds. According to them, the spiritual realms were more than willing to come to the aid of those who fought against men who would use the Earth Energies to conquer the world.
What a powerful tool for psychically uniting a people! Most people don't realize just how much of World War II was fought on these spiritual levels.
In 1853, William Pidgeon was shown the Effigy Mounds (above images), consisting of various kinds of earthworks, including geometrical constructions, animal and human shapes.
These range of mounds extended in direct and continuous lines and were found in Wisconsin, Iowa and Ohio. It was noted that characters of the symbols or effigies were found at points where principle lines intersected each other and primary water was found under each of the markers. To make a long story short, the Effigy Mounds are ley markers or leys. In the 1950s, Tony Wedd, made an important discovery and announcement that opened up a whole new theory on ley lines. He made claim that certain UFO sightings appeared to be in straight lines. He called them "orthotenies", meaning alignments of landed or low-level UFO sightings.
Were they using the ley lines possibly as an earth map?
RiftsAs a rule, major ley lines dont cross each other. When they do, the cross section is called a nexus point. At this intersection, rifts are formed, which is a tear in reality. The size of the rift would be in accordance to the stress of the reality of the environment around the nexus point proportional to the ley lines that cross. To simplify this statement, let me explain it this way. If two small ley lines crossed in a remote locations, a small rift, if any, would appear. However, an area such as Stonehenge that has a number of very strong major lines crossing it and numerous minor ones tend to create larger and even multiple rifts. Frequency of rift openings is determined by the relative strength of the nexus point. If a strong magical nexus exists, the chance to split Reality occurs more often.
RiftsAs a rule, major ley lines dont cross each other. When they do, the cross section is called a nexus point. At this intersection, rifts are formed, which is a tear in reality. The size of the rift would be in accordance to the stress of the reality of the environment around the nexus point proportional to the ley lines that cross. To simplify this statement, let me explain it this way. If two small ley lines crossed in a remote locations, a small rift, if any, would appear. However, an area such as Stonehenge that has a number of very strong major lines crossing it and numerous minor ones tend to create larger and even multiple rifts.
Frequency of rift openings is determined by the relative strength of the nexus point. If a strong magical nexus exists, the chance to split Reality occurs more often.
Nicholas Roerich, Shambhala: In search of the new era, Rochester, VE: Inner Traditions, 1990, p. 213. Victoria LePage, Shambhala: The fascinating truth behind the myth of Shangri-La, Wheaton, IL: Quest, 1996, pp. 14, 41, 48-9 David Hatcher Childress, Lost cities & ancient mysteries of South America H.P. Blavatsky, Isis unveiled Bruce A. Walton, A guide to the inner earth Wm. Michael Mott, Caverns, cauldrons, and concealed creatures Frank Waters, Book of the Hopi
Nicholas Roerich, Shambhala: In search of the new era, Rochester, VE: Inner Traditions, 1990, p. 213.
Victoria LePage, Shambhala: The fascinating truth behind the myth of Shangri-La, Wheaton, IL: Quest, 1996, pp. 14, 41, 48-9
David Hatcher Childress, Lost cities & ancient mysteries of South America
H.P. Blavatsky, Isis unveiled
Bruce A. Walton, A guide to the inner earth
Wm. Michael Mott, Caverns, cauldrons, and concealed creatures
Frank Waters, Book of the Hopi
