# Interview with Ex Illuminati Programmer - 06

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/illuminati/svali1_06.htm

Chapter Six: Brain Wave Programming
by: Svali
In this chapter I will address brain wave programming. Brain wave programming, like any other programming, will depend on several factors. These include:
the child's ability to dissociate the region of the country or which country the child grows up in the level of ability of the trainers the child has contact with physical resources and equipment available
the child's ability to dissociate
the region of the country or which country the child grows up in
the level of ability of the trainers the child has contact with
physical resources and equipment available
There is no one "recipe" that fits every person and it would be ridiculous to state that all people who go through brain wave programming have it done the same way. More and more, programmers are talking, sharing knowledge over the net, both nationally and internationally, and sharing both successes and failures. But there is no one standardized methodology for brain wave programming. It will often be influenced by the child herself, as well as the trainer's whims. Different groups may organize the systems differently, or try to achieve different effects. All of this said, what is brain wave programming? Simply put, brain wave programming involves having a young child go into a deep trance state, where they then learn to dissociate into a certain brain wave pattern. This is a complex skill, and not all children can achieve this. The goal is for the child to reach, for example, a consistent delta state, where delta brain waves show up on the EEG, which is attached to the child's head by electrodes in the scalp. Usually, two or even three trainers will work on one child during the initial stages. One will "prep" the child, using a hypnotic drug to induce a trance state. They will have also placed the electrodes on the head, using an abbreviated version of the method used in traditional hospital setting. If delta state is being induced, only the electrodes needed to pick up delta waves will be placed, for example. This is to save time. The prepped child will be on a "trainer's table", and will be quite relaxed. The average child is about eight years old when this is begun, since the cerebral cortex and neurological development are not advanced enough at earlier ages (It has been tried at earlier ages, quite unsuccessfully, in the past; this practice was dropped because of the neurological damage and "failure to take rate" that trainers were seeing). The non prepping trainer will then let the child know exactly what he/she expects: that they will achieve a special state, called "delta state". The trainer tells the child, while they are in trance state, that they will know when they reach it, by the readings from the electrodes. The trainer will tell the child alter, who has been called up to be a "template", or building block for the new system, that delta is good. They will emphasize this over and over. The child will then be shocked to increase its receptivity to learning. This also arouses the child from its drugged state and it will be more alert. It will want to please the trainer. The trainer will tell the child that she/he wants it to perform certain mental exercises. It will then give it backwards counting exercises, used to help the child achieve deeper trance states. Other verbal cues to trance down may be given. When the prepping or technical trainer sees delta waveforms, he or she will signal the verbal trainer with a hand motion. The verbal, or teaching trainer will immediately reward the child, saying, "good, you are in delta now." The trainer will caress the child, tell it what a good job it is doing. If the child bounces out of delta state, the verbal trainer will immediately become harsh, and will shock the child as punishment. The child is told that it left delta (which is "good") and needs to go back in. The induction, counting, will be repeated until delta state is seen again, when the child is repeatedly rewarded for entering, then staying in this state for longer and longer periods. The trainers are using biofeedback principles to teach the child to consistently cue into a brainwave pattern. When the template can stay in delta pattern consistently, the template will be rewarded. This will occur over several months. The trainers will now have a template that stays always in delta state, that they can begin splitting and using as the basis of forming a new system inside. They will do this using the tools of drugs, hypnosis and trauma. The new system created will record delta waves on an EEG if done correctly. The new system will be taught what delta means. The trainers will often flash a cue, or delta (triangle) symbol on a projector overhead, and "grind in" the delta imprinting. They will wear robes with delta signs on them, and cloth the subject in clothing or robes imprinted with the delta sign. They will teach the alters under hypnosis what deltas do, how they act. They will reward them when they comply, and shock or otherwise traumatize them if they do not act like "deltas". They will be given delta jobs. They will watch high frequency films, that show delta functions. They may build in a computer like structure to hold the system, showing pictures of its organization while the subject is under deep trance, after creating a clean slate through trauma. These are some examples of how delta programming may be induced. Other brain wave states will be induced in similar manners. They will often be formed from templates which are extremely young internal child alters who may be splits from core splits, as the basis for the programming. Common brain wave states used are:
Alpha: this is the most easily reached brain wave state, and also includes both the youngest and most easily accessed alters in the entire system. Young children have long periods of alpha activity and must be trained to enter other brain wave states for long periods. System access programming; access codes and sexual alters will often be placed in alpha, which may also be coded red in some systems. Beta: this is the next most easily reached state, and is often associated with aggressive impulses. Beta state will often hold cult protectors, internal warriors, and military systems. They may be color coded blue. Gamma: this will often hold extremely cult loyal alters, and holds more emotion than the other states, except for alpha. Suicide programming will often be layered into this system, as these alters would rather die than leave their "family". Scholarship programming may be held by this system, since they easily memorize by rote. Several languages may be spoken by different alters in this system, as the Illuminati like to program in plural linguality, with up to eight languages, both modern and ancient being spoken. Delta: this is one of the more cognitive brain wave states, and will often be highly dissociated. It may also be the "ruling" or controlling state over the other brain wave systems. Often, delta state may be configured inside as a computer, and the delta alters will have emotionless, flat alters with photographic memories. They may hold most of the cognitive memories for the other systems, especially if extensive amnesia programming has been done. Delta state may have up to three levels of training: delta 1, delta 2, and delta 3 which will also correlate to security access allowed within the cult; i.e. access to highly confidential information. Behavioral sciences programming may be held by this system. Internal programmers, self destruct, psychotic, and shatter programming as well as other punishment programming sequences to prevent outside access or internal access to the systems may be held within delta systems. It may be color coded both orange/blue/purple, and will also often be the entry way to higher systems such as jewels or internal councils, inside. Epsilon: this is often a "hidden system" and may hold CIA programming and high level governmental programming . Assassin programming may be held in this system, or in the beta system, depending on the trainer. Covert operations, courier operations, learning to tail a subject, or "drop a tag", disguises, getting out of difficult situations, may be handled by this system, which sees itself as chameleon-like. It may be color coded brown. Phi/Theta/Omega programming: this represents negative spiritual programming. These are the "dark" ritual alters, who participate in blood rituals, sacrifices, and ceremonies. Internal witches, warlocks, seers, psychics, readers, and occult practitioners will be placed in this system, which has highly developed right brain and deep trance abilities. They will often be color coded black.
This is an overview of some of the more common brain wave systems. It is often placed in over a matter of years, from ages 8 to 21 being the primary ones, with occasional reinforcement of the programming from time to time. Suggestions:
Brain wave programming is a very complex form of programming which creates automatic amnesia and communication barriers between the different brain wave states. This will also be reinforced by shock and punishment to prevent its "degradation", or undoing. Internal system controllers and programmers will also work to reinforce the programming, especially at night, when the person is asleep (physically). All brain wave systems will have system controllers, usually set up in a group of three (the Illuminati love triads, as being the "mystical" and most stable number. They believe that systems built upon triads are extremely strong, unbreakable, and will often program in threes: three back ups, three system controllers, etc.) With the help of a good therapist, the survivor needs to get to know the internal system controllers and communicators. They are there, they have to be, because the trainers placed them there to communicate with and be accountable to them externally, and will often have complete knowledge of their own system. They will also be quite flat, and dissociated from the knowledge of their own pain or the abuse that created them. This is a distancing mechanism, and the person's survival depended on the ability of their controller to do this at one time. They will often be quite hostile, and very unwilling to look at their own abuse; they will become indignant at the idea, and claim that they are cognitive, and "above" being abused (another lie they were told by their abusers). Time, patience, and finding out what their needs are; listening to them vent their frustration; pointing out reality (ie, the controllers, and all parts are related to each other; are part of the same person; and ALL were abused even though they were able to dissociate from their pain), and trying to help them meet their needs for recognition, acceptance, and approval will begin to allow them to question their previous loyalty. These systems are often driven by fear: fear of punishment; fear of remembering (they were often the most tortured systems in the survivor, and were promised amnesia in return for continued cooperation). Their fears are real, and should be listened to and respected, as shatter programming and flood programming are real threats to the survivor, and can cause functionality to go down. Flood programming is a sequence put in place to punish a system if its internal programming is allowed to degrade or access to an unauthorized person, either internally or externally, is allowed. It will involve the fragments who hold highly traumatic memories, both emotional and physical, being pushed to the front where the person is "flooded" with wave after wave of memories. If this is triggered, and it frequently is if the survivor is in therapy, the first priority should be slowing the memories down. This may mean trying to reason with internal controllers or deltas who are allowing the flooding; they need to know that if the front, or previously amnesic alters down, or are re-shattered due to traumatization, it will weaken all the systems. Bargain with them. Prayer will help in this situation. Physical safety, including inpatient therapy, may be needed if flooding or shatter programming are activated. Suicide programming is often layered in with both types, and external physical safety will be paramount for the survivor, with lots of outside accountability as they undo these intense programming sequences. Frequent reality orientation; explaining new, better jobs can help. Undoing brain wave programming should ideally only be done with lots of safe external support, which may include extra therapy sessions; hospitalization if programming that could cause loss of functionality or suicide are triggered; and should be geared towards increasing internal communication and cooperation. Alters jobs can be changed, from internal programmers to internal Deprogrammers; internal shatterers or punishers to internal protectors; internal reporters who report back to the cult can instead be asked to report internally on what the body is doing, and to keep it safe.
These are examples of possible changes. Make friends with system controllers, as they can become strong helpers and will work with the therapist to keep things safe for the survivor.
Return to Svali 1st Series
