# Interview with Ex Illuminati Programmer 2 - 07

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/illuminati/svali2_07.htm

Exclusive Interview with an Ex-Illuminati Programmer/Trainer
Part 7 - Illuminati Symbols and Clues; Level of Infiltration
Q: 'Yes, tell me more about that (german connection, masonic temple, the 'institute' and the Baal statue in Canada, please [see previous article]). What are some of the Illuminati trademarks, symbols and clues that are placed throughout society as their signals (other than the pyramid and all-seeing-eye of Horus), intentionally or unintentionally. Does the Illuminati get careless? A: To completely answer these questions, you would need my whole biography. I had thought once about writing it, but I doubt many would read it (seriously, this isn't false modesty) and also I really don't believe people will do anything about the Illuminati even if they know. Sorry for the cynicism, but it is based on a lifetime of experience. The Illuminists don't care who prints this stuff, or if they are "exposed" because they are counting on the majority not believing it, having done a pretty good job with a media blitz campaign (seen any articles in Newsweek or Time lately that addresses this other than as a laughable conspiracy theory? Guess who owns Time-Warner?). I have heard them laughing about this very thing in leadership meetings five years ago, and I doubt their attitude has changed much since then. If people DID believe this, if action were able to be taken, then I would be very surprised and quite happy. I'll give you an example. Two years ago, I tried to find a publisher for my book on how the Illuminati program people. I wanted it available for therapists who work with survivors. I couldn't find anyone willing to consider it; they told me it was much too controversial, and "there is no market for this among the general public". Sad, but true. At the same time, I do believe that God is in control of world history. I have exposed them, and self published my book for free on the web, to let those who work with survivors realize what they have been through. It's hard to help people leaving a group without understanding the traumas both emotional and physical that they have endured. Okay, now to your questions. 1. The Bruderheist is the ruling council of Germany. It meets in the black forest region, which is considered the center of the earth, and a vortex for psychical/spiritual energy. They are some of the most vicious people I have ever known in my life, and make the Nazis (who they encouraged) look like fun people. They are still there, manipulating people, running banks, and channeling their dirty money to Brussels, Switzerland, and Cairo, Egypt. 2. Canada has a very large Illuminati and Templar Knight community (they are hand in glove groups) that worship ancient deities. The gold or bronze statue of Baal is in a holy grove on a large private estate between Quebec and Montreal. Since I was only 12 years old when I went there, the details aren't quite as clear. But the ceremonies there were full of people in white gowns, lots of flowers and fruits and votive offerings, singing, then the final sacrifice in the arms of the statue. 3. Illuminati trademarks: these are the most cautionary people on earth. They try to leave absolutely NO tracks. Most of the symbology can be seen on T.V. or movies, and include: the concept of a military government ruling. These people are very, very militaristic. The Phoenix: this is one of their highest military and spiritual symbols. If you see a German eagle, too, this is a huge sign. Certain companies will use a phoenix as their logo, especially red on black, or the reverse, this is a huge sign, since the Illuminati use many resuscitation rituals in their training, where the person is brought into a death, or near death state, then "resuscitated" and told that Baal, or some other entity, "gave them life" and they owe their new life to him and the group. Thus, the phoenix is a huge trigger and symbol. Butterflies and rainbow signs are big triggers for people who have gone through the Monarch programming (yes, the Illuminists invented Monarch programming with the CIA). Certain types of jewelry are used as triggers. If a person goes online, and plays certain role games (like Ultima) the games are FULL of trigger symbols, such as gem stones. I don't play them but my husband does, and I have told him what the symbols mean. He thinks it's funny since they don't bother him (he isn't Illuminati). A tiara, or crown with 13 gems, with a diamond in the center, is a symbol of the coming reign of the "chosen one". Star of David: believe it or not, one of the highest Illuminati religious symbols is a star of David with a circle around it. Called "the great seal of Solomon" it is used at the highest ceremonies to invoke the demonic. Earth, water, and fire: these three are used in a lot of ceremonies. Check out how many Saturday a.m. cartoons use this concept. You'd be amazed. In fact, "The Fifth Element" movie was based on it. Greek and Roman mythology and symbols: The Illuminati use a tremendous amount of Greek and Roman mythology in their programming, and most people will have internal structures with a roman or greek temple inside. Lightening bolts, and any symbols from this time will also trigger those with this inside. For more, just pick up any recent Time magazine. Most of the ads are filled with Illuminati symbology. A picture of a head with a computer inside is another big one, symbolizes delta programming, for example. Bush is flashing the Horned Owl symbol with his right hand, it is Satanic. Take note of the look on his face too. Q: Take the lead and tell me about issues you may not have covered in your articles or in this interview.... perhaps some issues I have missed in regards to the New World Order / global government and such... A: 1. These people are pedophiliacs, they abuse and torture small children and teach them under duress to become perpetrators themselves from earliest infancy. This alone means they should be stopped. They run the porn industry, along with other groups such as the Mafia. They make enormous amounts of money from drug smuggling, gun running, and human slavery (oh, yes, the buying and selling of human beings is alive and well in the 21st century). They are involved in evil and money making in the extreme. If a profit is being made off of human suffering, you can trace the chain back somewhere to these people. 2. They have money and lawyers that could blast anyone confronting them out of the water. 3. They have infiltrated our government, and the governments of every country in the world, and well as the judicial and legal systems. 4. The media as well. 5. They run our financial institutions. 6. They are ruthless, ambitious, and will not stop at killing those they oppose. They invented MK-Ultra with the help of the CIA. Still want to take them on? Sorry, just letting you know what they are like. 7. They are working towards bringing in a new leader, who will usher in a Luciferian reign of joy, prosperity, and rewards to the faithful. Almost an Elyssian type paradise. Of course, the brutality would continue, and those who oppose his reign are to be hunted down and converted or destroyed, but the followers will be so happy and content that they believe these holdouts will want to come over to their side. Sounds unbelievable, but true. Also, people will have new jobs, and leadership positions in this new order, since the Illuminati believe that their children are the brightest and best (remember that lifetime of training and teaching?) and will be the intellectual elite who will rule over the unintelligent, or "less fit". These people really, truly believe this. Now, the other side of the picture. 1. They are arrogant, and this could be their downfall. They view the common man as "sheep" with no intelligence. They are full of pride, believe they are invulnerable (see above) and that any press about them is the equivalent of a gnat to be swatted. Arrogant people make mistakes, and they are becoming more blatant and open in recent years. 2. They believe they can overcome God, which is a huge mistake. God can stay the hand of history, and has so far, in the hope that more from this group will get out, because He is merciful. 3. Most of them are wounded, abused victims, who don't realize that it is possible to leave the group. There is a lot of discontent in the ranks, and there would be a mass exodus if the members believed it were really possible to get out (and live). Many of the trainers I knew (I know, wicked, torturing pedophiles) were NOT happy with what they did. They would whisper quietly, or give a look, to show that they disagreed with what they had to do. They would resignedly do their jobs, in the hope of advancement. Know what one of the biggest carrots offered to those who advance up in the group is? That you don't have to hurt people anymore, and that you can't be abused (it's true: only those higher than you in the group can abuse you, so everyone wants to move up, where the pool of candidates becomes smaller). Of course, people can choose to abuse anyone beneath them, and that motivates some (but not all!) to move up. 4. As more survivors leave, therapists and churches and support people are becoming more aware of the sophisticated mind control techniques used to control members. They are learning to undo it. 5. Prayer can overcome the greatest evil, and my greatest hope is that those I once knew in this group, including the heads and those who hurt me at times, would get out. That they could know that, yes, it is truly possible to leave. Q: I have seen Clinton do this hand sign on a few occasion, and now Prince William as well. Any hidden meaning? A: That is an old, well known greeting of one satanist to another. Usually, the Illuminists are a lot more subtle and don't do that publicly.
Q: 'Yes, tell me more about that (german connection, masonic temple, the 'institute' and the Baal statue in Canada, please [see previous article]). What are some of the Illuminati trademarks, symbols and clues that are placed throughout society as their signals (other than the pyramid and all-seeing-eye of Horus), intentionally or unintentionally. Does the Illuminati get careless? A: To completely answer these questions, you would need my whole biography. I had thought once about writing it, but I doubt many would read it (seriously, this isn't false modesty) and also I really don't believe people will do anything about the Illuminati even if they know. Sorry for the cynicism, but it is based on a lifetime of experience. The Illuminists don't care who prints this stuff, or if they are "exposed" because they are counting on the majority not believing it, having done a pretty good job with a media blitz campaign (seen any articles in Newsweek or Time lately that addresses this other than as a laughable conspiracy theory? Guess who owns Time-Warner?). I have heard them laughing about this very thing in leadership meetings five years ago, and I doubt their attitude has changed much since then. If people DID believe this, if action were able to be taken, then I would be very surprised and quite happy. I'll give you an example. Two years ago, I tried to find a publisher for my book on how the Illuminati program people. I wanted it available for therapists who work with survivors. I couldn't find anyone willing to consider it; they told me it was much too controversial, and "there is no market for this among the general public". Sad, but true. At the same time, I do believe that God is in control of world history. I have exposed them, and self published my book for free on the web, to let those who work with survivors realize what they have been through. It's hard to help people leaving a group without understanding the traumas both emotional and physical that they have endured. Okay, now to your questions.
1. The Bruderheist is the ruling council of Germany. It meets in the black forest region, which is considered the center of the earth, and a vortex for psychical/spiritual energy. They are some of the most vicious people I have ever known in my life, and make the Nazis (who they encouraged) look like fun people. They are still there, manipulating people, running banks, and channeling their dirty money to Brussels, Switzerland, and Cairo, Egypt. 2. Canada has a very large Illuminati and Templar Knight community (they are hand in glove groups) that worship ancient deities. The gold or bronze statue of Baal is in a holy grove on a large private estate between Quebec and Montreal. Since I was only 12 years old when I went there, the details aren't quite as clear. But the ceremonies there were full of people in white gowns, lots of flowers and fruits and votive offerings, singing, then the final sacrifice in the arms of the statue. 3. Illuminati trademarks: these are the most cautionary people on earth. They try to leave absolutely NO tracks. Most of the symbology can be seen on T.V. or movies, and include: the concept of a military government ruling. These people are very, very militaristic. The Phoenix: this is one of their highest military and spiritual symbols. If you see a German eagle, too, this is a huge sign. Certain companies will use a phoenix as their logo, especially red on black, or the reverse, this is a huge sign, since the Illuminati use many resuscitation rituals in their training, where the person is brought into a death, or near death state, then "resuscitated" and told that Baal, or some other entity, "gave them life" and they owe their new life to him and the group. Thus, the phoenix is a huge trigger and symbol. Butterflies and rainbow signs are big triggers for people who have gone through the Monarch programming (yes, the Illuminists invented Monarch programming with the CIA). Certain types of jewelry are used as triggers. If a person goes online, and plays certain role games (like Ultima) the games are FULL of trigger symbols, such as gem stones. I don't play them but my husband does, and I have told him what the symbols mean. He thinks it's funny since they don't bother him (he isn't Illuminati). A tiara, or crown with 13 gems, with a diamond in the center, is a symbol of the coming reign of the "chosen one". Star of David: believe it or not, one of the highest Illuminati religious symbols is a star of David with a circle around it. Called "the great seal of Solomon" it is used at the highest ceremonies to invoke the demonic. Earth, water, and fire: these three are used in a lot of ceremonies. Check out how many Saturday a.m. cartoons use this concept. You'd be amazed. In fact, "The Fifth Element" movie was based on it. Greek and Roman mythology and symbols: The Illuminati use a tremendous amount of Greek and Roman mythology in their programming, and most people will have internal structures with a roman or greek temple inside. Lightening bolts, and any symbols from this time will also trigger those with this inside. For more, just pick up any recent Time magazine. Most of the ads are filled with Illuminati symbology. A picture of a head with a computer inside is another big one, symbolizes delta programming, for example.
1. The Bruderheist is the ruling council of Germany. It meets in the black forest region, which is considered the center of the earth, and a vortex for psychical/spiritual energy. They are some of the most vicious people I have ever known in my life, and make the Nazis (who they encouraged) look like fun people. They are still there, manipulating people, running banks, and channeling their dirty money to Brussels, Switzerland, and Cairo, Egypt. 2. Canada has a very large Illuminati and Templar Knight community (they are hand in glove groups) that worship ancient deities. The gold or bronze statue of Baal is in a holy grove on a large private estate between Quebec and Montreal. Since I was only 12 years old when I went there, the details aren't quite as clear. But the ceremonies there were full of people in white gowns, lots of flowers and fruits and votive offerings, singing, then the final sacrifice in the arms of the statue. 3. Illuminati trademarks: these are the most cautionary people on earth. They try to leave absolutely NO tracks. Most of the symbology can be seen on T.V. or movies, and include: the concept of a military government ruling. These people are very, very militaristic.
The Phoenix: this is one of their highest military and spiritual symbols. If you see a German eagle, too, this is a huge sign. Certain companies will use a phoenix as their logo, especially red on black, or the reverse, this is a huge sign, since the Illuminati use many resuscitation rituals in their training, where the person is brought into a death, or near death state, then "resuscitated" and told that Baal, or some other entity, "gave them life" and they owe their new life to him and the group. Thus, the phoenix is a huge trigger and symbol. Butterflies and rainbow signs are big triggers for people who have gone through the Monarch programming (yes, the Illuminists invented Monarch programming with the CIA). Certain types of jewelry are used as triggers. If a person goes online, and plays certain role games (like Ultima) the games are FULL of trigger symbols, such as gem stones. I don't play them but my husband does, and I have told him what the symbols mean. He thinks it's funny since they don't bother him (he isn't Illuminati). A tiara, or crown with 13 gems, with a diamond in the center, is a symbol of the coming reign of the "chosen one". Star of David: believe it or not, one of the highest Illuminati religious symbols is a star of David with a circle around it. Called "the great seal of Solomon" it is used at the highest ceremonies to invoke the demonic. Earth, water, and fire: these three are used in a lot of ceremonies. Check out how many Saturday a.m. cartoons use this concept. You'd be amazed. In fact, "The Fifth Element" movie was based on it. Greek and Roman mythology and symbols: The Illuminati use a tremendous amount of Greek and Roman mythology in their programming, and most people will have internal structures with a roman or greek temple inside. Lightening bolts, and any symbols from this time will also trigger those with this inside. For more, just pick up any recent Time magazine. Most of the ads are filled with Illuminati symbology. A picture of a head with a computer inside is another big one, symbolizes delta programming, for example.
Bush is flashing the Horned Owl symbol with his right hand, it is Satanic. Take note of the look on his face too.
Q: Take the lead and tell me about issues you may not have covered in your articles or in this interview.... perhaps some issues I have missed in regards to the New World Order / global government and such... A:
1. These people are pedophiliacs, they abuse and torture small children and teach them under duress to become perpetrators themselves from earliest infancy. This alone means they should be stopped. They run the porn industry, along with other groups such as the Mafia. They make enormous amounts of money from drug smuggling, gun running, and human slavery (oh, yes, the buying and selling of human beings is alive and well in the 21st century). They are involved in evil and money making in the extreme. If a profit is being made off of human suffering, you can trace the chain back somewhere to these people. 2. They have money and lawyers that could blast anyone confronting them out of the water. 3. They have infiltrated our government, and the governments of every country in the world, and well as the judicial and legal systems. 4. The media as well. 5. They run our financial institutions. 6. They are ruthless, ambitious, and will not stop at killing those they oppose. They invented MK-Ultra with the help of the CIA. Still want to take them on? Sorry, just letting you know what they are like. 7. They are working towards bringing in a new leader, who will usher in a Luciferian reign of joy, prosperity, and rewards to the faithful. Almost an Elyssian type paradise. Of course, the brutality would continue, and those who oppose his reign are to be hunted down and converted or destroyed, but the followers will be so happy and content that they believe these holdouts will want to come over to their side. Sounds unbelievable, but true.
Also, people will have new jobs, and leadership positions in this new order, since the Illuminati believe that their children are the brightest and best (remember that lifetime of training and teaching?) and will be the intellectual elite who will rule over the unintelligent, or "less fit". These people really, truly believe this. Now, the other side of the picture.
1. They are arrogant, and this could be their downfall. They view the common man as "sheep" with no intelligence. They are full of pride, believe they are invulnerable (see above) and that any press about them is the equivalent of a gnat to be swatted. Arrogant people make mistakes, and they are becoming more blatant and open in recent years. 2. They believe they can overcome God, which is a huge mistake. God can stay the hand of history, and has so far, in the hope that more from this group will get out, because He is merciful. 3. Most of them are wounded, abused victims, who don't realize that it is possible to leave the group. There is a lot of discontent in the ranks, and there would be a mass exodus if the members believed it were really possible to get out (and live). Many of the trainers I knew (I know, wicked, torturing pedophiles) were NOT happy with what they did. They would whisper quietly, or give a look, to show that they disagreed with what they had to do. They would resignedly do their jobs, in the hope of advancement. Know what one of the biggest carrots offered to those who advance up in the group is? That you don't have to hurt people anymore, and that you can't be abused (it's true: only those higher than you in the group can abuse you, so everyone wants to move up, where the pool of candidates becomes smaller). Of course, people can choose to abuse anyone beneath them, and that motivates some (but not all!) to move up. 4. As more survivors leave, therapists and churches and support people are becoming more aware of the sophisticated mind control techniques used to control members. They are learning to undo it. 5. Prayer can overcome the greatest evil, and my greatest hope is that those I once knew in this group, including the heads and those who hurt me at times, would get out. That they could know that, yes, it is truly possible to leave.
Q: I have seen Clinton do this hand sign on a few occasion, and now Prince William as well. Any hidden meaning? A: That is an old, well known greeting of one satanist to another. Usually, the Illuminists are a lot more subtle and don't do that publicly.
Return to Svali 2nd Series
