# Interview with Ex Illuminati Programmer - 14

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/illuminati/svali1_14.htm

Chapter Fourteen: Spiritual Programming by: Svali
**Note: this chapter includes discussion of both cult and Christian spirituality; do not read if these themes are triggering***
Any discussion of Illuminati programming would be lacking if it did not address spiritual programming. Most of the previous chapters have dealt with scientifically based, organized, structured programming. But the Illuminati are first and foremost not scientists, but spiritual. The very foundation of the group is based on the occult. And they go to great lengths to grind in these occult beliefs in their peoples systems. The amount of spiritual programming in the persons systems will vary from person to person, and depends on the individual group, their religious heritage, the leaders beliefs, and the trainers in the group. All children go to rituals, where they are dedicated from before birth as well as at intervals throughout their life. In these rituals, demonic entities are invoked, to coerce the person into servant hood, loyalty, and secrecy; as well as reinforce the programming being done. Trainers will invoke demonic layering during programming sessions. This is done after acute trauma. The person is asked if they want more pain, and they will always say ''no''. The trainer then offers them a way out: if they will accept a ''protector'' or ''protectors'' they wont be hurt any more. The trainers will want this, knowing that with these ''protectors'' they can shorten the training sessions. The protectors, or guardians, will reinforce the programming internally, without outside help. This concept will seem controversial to people who do not believe in spiritual realities, but I am only describing what the Illuminists believe, and their trainers practice. Spiritual programming will also include: being forced to memorize rituals, THE BOOK OF ILLUMINATION, and other books which contain cult beliefs. The person will be saturated from infancy on, in classes and training sessions, with cult beliefs. They will go to rituals where the adults participate in spiritual worship, wearing robes, and giving obeisance to the groups particular guardian deity. Moloch, Ashtaroth, Baal, Enokkim are demons who are commonly worshipped. The child may see a sacrifice, either real or a set-up, to these deities; animal sacrifices are common. The child will be forced to participate in the sacrifices, and will have to go through blood baptism. They will be forced to take the heart, or other internal organs, out of an animal that has been sacrificed, and eat them. The adults, and leaders of the group, will place their hands on the childs head, while it is drugged, and invoke demonic entities. One ritual which is actually programming is the ''resuscitation ritual''. In this ritual, the child may be heavily drugged, and shocked or tortured, to the point that his heart may stop. The head priest will then ''resuscitate '' the child, using drugs, CPR, and incantations. When the child comes back, and is awake, he or she will be told that they were ''brought back to life'' by the demonic entity that the particular group worships, and that now the child owes it their life. They are told that if they ever tell, or try to get the demon to leave, they will return to the lifeless state they were in prior to resuscitation. Spiritual ''healings'' due to the demonic are also common. Injuries caused by torture, or programming sessions, or even military exercises, will be healed almost instantaneously during invocations. Jewel programming will often have demons loyal to the generational family spirits layered in. These are called the ''family jewels''. The demons ''guard them'' and help protect the programming surrounding them. In a sense, every ritual that a young child is part of, is an intense programming experience, as the child observes the adults around them, and imitates their behavior. The child will be severely punished if it falls asleep, and will be told that demons will kill it if it goes to sleep again during a ritual. They are taught to be completely silent, no matter what they witness during the rituals. The child will witness things that seem utterly unbelievable, including faces appearing transformed by the demonic, channeling, other voices coming out of a leaders mouth, reading of members, telling the future. Group guidance will often be given through channeling of a strong spirit or principality; members who can channel powerful spirits and survive are respected, and their guidance will be looked for. Some groups will use scriptures negatively or program the child to hate Christian symbols and theology. Other groups will encourage the amnesic front to embrace a Christian lifestyle, while forcing the back alters to renounce and blaspheme the choices the front has made, to separate the two alter groups even further. The cult alters will be told that since they renounced Christianity, they have committed the ''unpardonable sin'' and can never be forgiven. They will be shown scriptures that supposedly back this up. In moments of despair, during intense torture or isolation, a person will often cry out to God for help. The trainers or other cult members will often mock the person, telling the person that God has forgotten them, or ask ''where is God now? He must hate you.....'' Any negative experience the person undergoes, will be used to reinforce the concept that they have been abandoned by God. The cult will gleefully point out the contradictions between what the person experiences, and what Christianity teaches should happen to them. They may distort scriptures, or use false scriptures. They may distort Christian hymns, or use them in programming. A favorite hymn is ''may the circle be unbroken'', since it can have two meanings. Suggestions:
Spiritual programming can be some of the most damaging programming within a persons systems, since it attempts to cut them off from the source of real healing. It is an intentional distortion of truth, with events calculated to teach and reinforce wrong concepts of God. Many survivors are unable to hear Christian terms, or are intensely triggered by any religious discussion. The survivor and therapist need to realize that these negative reactions are the result of years of false teaching, pain, punishment, distortion and set-ups. It is important not to judge the parts of the person that are negative towards spirituality, or come out, proclaiming the power and benefits of cult spirituality. The survivors front may be horrified to hear or learn about parts that have these feelings, especially if they are a strong Christian. These parts inside are sharing the only reality they have ever known, and need time and patience to ground, and experience reality outside of the cult setting. Demonic oppression may need to be dealt with, and even deliverance, to bring relief to a system that is being terrorized by the demonic. Each therapist and survivor will need to come to terms with their own spiritual beliefs. I personally believe that a therapist needs to consider the possibility of the demonic, since this is what the survivor has been exposed to all their life. The cult certainly does believe it is real, and anyone who has been involved in a cult setting will have had experiences that are in-explainable by normal rational scientific principles. The survivor needs hope, and healing. A positive spirituality based on love, gentleness, forgiveness, that is the opposite of the coercing, punitive, negative spirituality the survivor has known, will help immensely in the healing process. A spiritual belief system that offers hope, healing, grace, mercy, and affirmation will often give the survivor the support they need to go on during the often difficult process of healing.
Spiritual programming can be some of the most damaging programming within a persons systems, since it attempts to cut them off from the source of real healing. It is an intentional distortion of truth, with events calculated to teach and reinforce wrong concepts of God. Many survivors are unable to hear Christian terms, or are intensely triggered by any religious discussion. The survivor and therapist need to realize that these negative reactions are the result of years of false teaching, pain, punishment, distortion and set-ups. It is important not to judge the parts of the person that are negative towards spirituality, or come out, proclaiming the power and benefits of cult spirituality. The survivors front may be horrified to hear or learn about parts that have these feelings, especially if they are a strong Christian. These parts inside are sharing the only reality they have ever known, and need time and patience to ground, and experience reality outside of the cult setting. Demonic oppression may need to be dealt with, and even deliverance, to bring relief to a system that is being terrorized by the demonic. Each therapist and survivor will need to come to terms with their own spiritual beliefs. I personally believe that a therapist needs to consider the possibility of the demonic, since this is what the survivor has been exposed to all their life. The cult certainly does believe it is real, and anyone who has been involved in a cult setting will have had experiences that are in-explainable by normal rational scientific principles. The survivor needs hope, and healing. A positive spirituality based on love, gentleness, forgiveness, that is the opposite of the coercing, punitive, negative spirituality the survivor has known, will help immensely in the healing process.
A spiritual belief system that offers hope, healing, grace, mercy, and affirmation will often give the survivor the support they need to go on during the often difficult process of healing.
Return to Svali 1st Series
