# Interview with Ex Illuminati Programmer 2 - 18

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/illuminati/svali2_18.htm

An Ex-Illuminati Programmer/Trainer speaks out Part 18 - Near Death Experiences Published on: July 9, 2001 at Suite101.com by: Svali Waldrop
Near Death Programming (**note: the content of this article discusses traumatic programming in some detail, and could be very triggering to survivors who have undergone this type of abuse. If you are a survivor, please do not read unless you are with a safe person, or with your therapist) This is part of an ongoing series on complex programming that I am writing as an outline for a sequel to my first book, Breaking the Chain. In this article, I will be discussing one of the most traumatic forms of programming that a survivor can undergo.
This programming involves the use of Near Death Experiences. The Illuminati have studied human neurophysiology for years, and the effects of traumatic conditioning on the human brain and psyche. In their search for better and more reliable methods of ingraining programming, they have utilized research from a variety of sources: governmental agencies; totalitarian regimes, and their own experimentation that is ongoing on a continuous (and secretive) basis. But some of the foundations for this type of programming have been in place for centuries. One of the oldest rituals that the Illuminati utilize is the resurrection ceremony. In fact the Phoenix, symbol of death and new life, is one of their highest symbols and symbolizes the coming of the New Order and its leader. How is resurrection programming done, or its variations? I will share what I have undergone and/or witnessed. A young child of around two or three will be very heavily traumatized during an occult ceremony. They will be abused, beaten, shocked and even suffocated, and given drugs to create a state that is near death. The child will almost always at this point feel that they are suspended above their body, watching the unconscious body beneath that has been tortured to the point of being near death. There will always be medical personnel involved in programming at this depth, who are skilled at monitoring the childs physical state, and of resuscitating them. Resuscitation equipment and medications are on hand at all times. The child in this extremity will have their deepest core called out at this point, and brought to consciousness in extreme pain. They will then be told that they have a choice: to face certain death, or to choose life if they will invite a powerful demon inside. The child chooses life. The demon enters, the child goes unconscious, and then awakens later in clean clothing, in a soft bed, with healing ointments on.
They are extremely weak and shaky, and are told by a kind, caring, soft voiced woman (or man) that the child had died, but the demon brought them back to life, that they owe their very life and heart beat to it and those who saved them. The child is also told that if they ask the demonic entity to leave, that they will revert to the near death/dying state they were in when it made its entrance. This is one type of near death experience used to control and terrify a very young child, and to force it to accept a demonic spirituality under the most traumatic and coercive circumstances imaginable. The child feels marked and chosen for life by this experience, and it profoundly influences the childs core beliefs about him/herself and their deepest reality. It is also one of the most horrible manipulations of a young child that can occur, and is designed to take away their free choice or will. Another form of near death programming will occur in a situation that has often been called governmental mind control but which I always viewed as linked to the Illuminati programming (since the trainers/scientists in each crossed over from one to the other and shared information). For example, at Tulane Medical Center, nearby, was a place known as the Institute. The Institute was involved in experimentation in mind control techniques put in under the most extreme circumstances, including at the point of near physical death. For some of this programming, a subject (how I hate that word, used by trainers to emotionally distance themselves from the fact that this was a human being, with feelings and emotions being worked on) would be in a hospital ward, isolated from others by blank grey white walls.
The subject was tied down by four points, and also across the waist and neck. They were then wrapped in a cocoon like manner with soft gauze, to limit movement or any feeling or sensation in the limbs. Usually, subjects were fed intravenously, and then underwent severe sensory deprivation, broken by bombardment with extremely loud noises. A darkened room would be broken by glaring white lights in the middle of the night, and the subject loses orientation of night or day. The subject, when near breaking, is then shocked heavily and drugged. They may be placed temporarily on a respirator, and given paralytic drugs. The anxiety level reaches extreme points as this abuse continues, and I had heard of people literally having a heart attack from fear at this point. The person is drugged and shocked again, and then told that they are dying. They watch their body from above, and are actually glad that finally release will come from the days of torment at this place. At this point, a trainer with a kind, soothing voice will come in and repetitiously say, You deserve to live, I wont let you die. You owe your life to me. Recorded messages are also played over and over, repetitiously, at this point, which describe the subjects future destiny for family, etc. Finally, slowly, the subject is allowed to awaken, to come out of unconsciousness, with the constant message of being reborn for the family group being played.
Kind faced people soothe the subject as they recover from this hideously traumatic programming sequence. The person feels insanely grateful to be alive, to be released from the horrors of the days when they lay near death in the Institute, and will cling like a preverbal child to the adults around them. They are extremely vulnerable at this point, and extremely receptive to the messages placed in under trauma. I should know. I was a subject at the Institute as a child in the 1960s and early 1970s, and later visited as an adult as a consultant. This is deep level programming put in under extreme circumstances, and the fear level for the survivor when they begin to remember this type of trauma can be extremely high. I wish I could whitewash it, say that it isnt this bad, but it is. I know that this may stretch the believability of some people, but this type of programming really, truly occurs (along with other types of sophisticated mind control methods). Near death programming has many variations, and I have only touched on two (there are other forms as well). Programming put in when in a near death state will be at core level, since the survival level at that point touches the persons core, no matter how well protected. The person who has undergone it may believe that if they try to break it, they might die. That they will enter a near death state. That their heart will stop. I went through all of these fears, and more, when dealing with this type of programming inside, and to this day I struggle at times with the residual terror it left.
The lies ground in at this almost unconscious state will be believed deeply at a core level, since the child undergoing it is desperately needing to believe the adults who literally hold the power of life and death over them. The child has been completely broken down by the planned, horrific trauma, and will embrace these messages at their deepest core as being true. This is why core beliefs and messages are so very hard to undo at this level. It means excellent support, a safe environment, and spiritual awareness and discernment, since the demonic stronghold will also be severe at this point. Help from a therapist knowledgeable about programming, and spiritual help from those who know about deliverance, is a vital part of therapy at this point.
The survivor who reaches this level of programming inside will have reached core level. The programming will be some of the most deeply held and believed, and will be almost impossible to reach at a conscious level, until there is deep system cooperation and safety and trust in the outside people helping the survivor. This is also where faith in God, and His ability to heal ANYTHING, including the most severe of physical, emotional, and spiritual traumas, will make all the difference. This type of programming may need to be worked on in a safe inpatient setting, or with extreme safety externally, since fear may cause panic and acting out when it begins to come out.
Reality orientation may be lost for a bit as the programming sequences surface, and it will take the strength of the entire system to help slow the memories down and make them manageable. Medication will probably also be needed, to help with the severe sense of depression, loss, abandonment, and betrayal that this type of programming will bring out. Despair over choices made, and wondering if the survivor can survive remembering will come up. A hopeful, supportive, nurturing, and encouraging attitude can make the difference.
Scripture verses that remind the person of Gods love and ability to heal, of His care, and promises of forgiveness and caring, will be very important. Breaking this type of programming is immensely tiring and plenty of rest and nutritious food is important. This is NOT the time to take on extra stressors. Allowing the survivor to vent their fear, reassuring them, praying with them, and caring for them will become a lifeline. Hearing their rage at what was done as they discuss the SOBs who did this to me will be healing, and dont rush them towards premature or false forgiveness.
The survivor will have to look at and acknowledge the trauma, the damage, and then find hope that they are surviving the remembering of core trauma. Bringing in gentle, non-taxing good experiences such as a playtime, drawing, or a nature walk can be healing. Outlets such as journaling and talking about how they feel will be very important in processing this type of programming. I have described some of the most viciously traumatic programming that can be done to a child or young teen in this group. It is possible to work it through, slowly, with time and caring support and prayer.
My wish in discussing this has not been to be gory or graphic, but to help others understand that this type of programming does occur, and may need to be worked through by the survivor of occultic/ritualistic abuse.
Return to Svali 2nd Series
