# Is Soros Preparing a Color Revolution for Greece?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_soros02.htm

by Brandon Turbeville February 9, 2015 from BrandonTurbeville Website
With the recent victory of Syriza in Greece, opponents of austerity the world over have been rejoicing.
The news from a country crushed by austerity policies, the European Central Bank, the IMF, and corrupt oligarchs is now heralding a shift in direction toward a "third way" that does not simply involve trading one austerity oligarch and his party for another. For many in Greece, the signal is clear - help seems to be on the way. For those watching the developments from afar, the hope is that the spark in Greece will light the brushfire across Europe and the rest of the world that says "No!" to austerity and banker domination of national economies. Yet, while the signs coming out of Greece may seem positive at first, there is an ominous cloud approaching - the cloud of George Soros and his color revolution apparatus. If Syriza is truly as anti-austerity, anti-banker, and anti-troika as its rhetoric and even its first actions seem to indicate, then the Greek oligarchs, international bankers, corporate boards, and secret societies will undoubtedly respond as soon as they are able to mount a calculated strategy. George Soros and his color revolution networks may just be the response these oligarchs are ready to mount. Indeed, Soros has been founding and opening his infamous "Solidarity Centers" in Greece since January, 2014 using philanthropy and economic relief as justification for the opening of the centers.
Because of Soros' track record, one would be justified in wondering whether or not Soros' Solidarity Centers' grand openings were for the purposes of misdirecting the growing Greek discontent with austerity policies or if it was more in anticipation of a Syriza victory in the coming elections. Regardless, the places are already being set. Alexis Tsipras had better start watching his back. Indeed, the knives are already being sharpened by the color revolution apparatus and history has clearly shown that those who control it are willing to stab their target in the front as well as the back.
As The Guardian reported in January, 2014:
George Soros has extended his financial support for Greece by establishing the first in a series of "solidarity centres" for those worst-hit by the country's economic crisis. The opening of the centre in the northern city of Thessaloniki comes as ever more Greeks are forced to turn to charities for help. "Greece, to a great degree, has become a failed state," said Aliki Mouriki, a sociologist at the National Centre for Social Research. "It is unable to provide basic facilities for its citizens because of budget cuts. "In the absence of public welfare, and with around one and a half million officially unemployed, growing numbers are looking for substitutes elsewhere." The centre - a hub for NGOs offering health care and legal counsel - has been deluged with requests only days after opening its doors. Soros committed $1m for heating oil last year after local mayors, unable to heat schools, appealed for help. Among them was Tassos Karabatos, mayor of Naoussa, also in northern Greece, who turned to the US investor after taking the unprecedented step of shutting down all 54 schools in his municipality when he saw that oil tanks were running dry.
George Soros has extended his financial support for Greece by establishing the first in a series of "solidarity centres" for those worst-hit by the country's economic crisis.
The opening of the centre in the northern city of Thessaloniki comes as ever more Greeks are forced to turn to charities for help.
"Greece, to a great degree, has become a failed state," said Aliki Mouriki, a sociologist at the National Centre for Social Research. "It is unable to provide basic facilities for its citizens because of budget cuts.
"In the absence of public welfare, and with around one and a half million officially unemployed, growing numbers are looking for substitutes elsewhere."
The centre - a hub for NGOs offering health care and legal counsel - has been deluged with requests only days after opening its doors.
Soros committed $1m for heating oil last year after local mayors, unable to heat schools, appealed for help.
Among them was Tassos Karabatos, mayor of Naoussa, also in northern Greece, who turned to the US investor after taking the unprecedented step of shutting down all 54 schools in his municipality when he saw that oil tanks were running dry.
While Soros' donations may seem at first to be an act of incredible generosity, it would take gross naïveté and ignorance of the billionaire's history across the world to believe that he has anything remotely resembling good intentions for Greece. Notice that, while Soros has bought some watery-eyed loyalty with his donations, it is also true that his "Solidarity Centers" are also "a hub for NGOs," a necessary part of any color revolution.
In fact, the currency speculator Soros has funded a number of color revolutions through his "democracy" and "civil society" NGOs in Europe and even the United States. Of course, some Greeks were not as foolish as to look toward the Soros machine for help. A number of school parents' associations refused to endorse any of the Soros funds. The presence of mind of the Greek people earned them condemnation from many of their local leaders, however. Indeed, Soros is most well-known for playing a major role in the funding and facilitating of,
the "Bulldozer Revolution" in Serbia that overthrew Slobodan Milosevic in 2000 Georgia's "Rose Revolution" of 2003 the 2006 push to move Turkey toward a more Islamist governing structure the Occupy movement in the United States,
the "Bulldozer Revolution" in Serbia that overthrew Slobodan Milosevic in 2000
Georgia's "Rose Revolution" of 2003
the 2006 push to move Turkey toward a more Islamist governing structure
the Occupy movement in the United States,
...among a great many others. Having only been in office a number of days, Syriza has already made a few populist moves - firing a number of highly paid parasites operating under the guise of being "consultants" from the IMF and European Central Bank in order to re-hire a number of previously fired government cleaning staff, for instance.
Syriza has already taken a firm and public stance against austerity measures suggesting that the holders of Greek bonds should take a 50% haircut, Greek debt should be reduced by half, and that Greece is categorically finished with the implementation of austerity measures and the slicing of its living standards.
Tsipras' Finance Ministry has also essentially stated through its rhetoric that Germany will not dictate Greek economic policy. In addition, Syriza has invited and welcomed the Russian Foreign Ministry as its first foreign diplomatic guest, and has expressed great aversion to the idea of supporting any further sanctions on Russia.
The concept of greater economic cooperation between the two countries has likewise been entertained much to the chagrin of the United States and a large portion of the EU. If Syriza continues its stand against the power of,
the EU Central Bank the IMF World Bank Atlanticist Anglo-American network,
the EU Central Bank
the IMF
World Bank
Atlanticist Anglo-American network,
...then it will inevitably find itself in the crosshairs of these institutions and organizations.
While outside pressure may be applied at first, the next step will be to unleash the force of the people against the elected government in much the same fashion as the Eastern European color revolutions of the past.
If all else fails, there is the threat of violent destabilization which would not, unfortunately, be a first for Greece even in its recent history. Nor would it be the first violent destabilization that would take place as a result of NATO agents operating inside the country. The question then remains:
Will Syriza remain firm in its populist economic platform or will it sell out the Greek people like every government and ruling party before it?
If it does remain firm, the question will then be what it will have to face in the coming months.
Return to George Soros and The Rothschild
Return to Globalization and The European Union
