# Israel - Founded By And Living On Terror

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_zion26.htm

by Rev. Ted Pike March-25-2008 from Rense Website
Rev. Ted Pike is director of the National Prayer Network, a Christian/conservative watchdog organization. Let the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith teach you how they have saddled 45 states with hate laws capable of persecuting Christians: http://www.adl.org/99hatecrime/intro.asp http://www.adl.org/99hatecrime/intro.asp Learn how ADL took away free speech in Canada and wants to steal it now in the U.S. Congress.
Zionist-dominated mainstream media vividly portrays Israel as a tiny embattled nation seeking peace in a sea of Arab hostility. 1
Arabs, we are told, commit acts of terror while Israel only resorts to violence out of self-protection. The facts of history paint a very different picture. Far from deploring terror, Israel has sanctioned terror to seize and expand its territory since its beginnings. In 1944, Zionist leaders in Israel faced two alternatives.
They could continue to allow the British and Arabs to occupy Palestine, who would continue to pressure Israel to concede a Palestinian state. Or they could drive both British and Arabs out. Israelis chose the latter. Members of the Zionist ruling elite and their clandestine terrorist enforcers - the Jewish Agency, Hagana, Irgun and the Stern Gang - began to exert every possible terrorist means to dominate Palestine. Their strategy was simple: the more respectable Zionist establishment would take the "high road" and officially disavow terrorism.
Meanwhile, Zionist terrorists would commit any crime needed to disrupt British occupation and to panic Arabs into flight. The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, available in most university libraries, documents from British records more than five hundred violent or terrorist incidents against Palestinians and the British occupation between 1939 and 1948.
These included bombings, booby traps and landmines, kidnappings and torture of prisoners, bank robberies, murders of Arabs, and assassinations of police and British officials. 2 Chief terrorists were David Ben-Gurion, Menachem Begin, Yitzhak Shamir and later, Ariel Sharon.
Begin headed Irgun, and Shamir led the Stern Gang. They cooperated intimately with the highest political body of the Zionist establishment, the Jewish Agency, and the popular Zionist resistance army, Hagana. Ben-Gurion headed Hagana and later the Jewish Agency. 3 After 1944 - when Ben-Gurion formally rejected the British plan for partition of Palestine into Jewish/Arab states - most Israelis, particularly the young, favored expulsion of British and Arabs. Here is the short list of Zionist atrocities from 1944 to the present:
Assassination of Lord Moyne on November 6, 1944. Under orders from Yitzhak Shamir, terrorists of the Stern Gang shot Lord Moyne, British resident minister. Purpose: To drive the British from Palestine. The King David massacre, July 22, 1946. Begin's Irgun terrorists, with encouragement from Ben-Gurion's Hagana, blew up the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, murdering 92. Purpose: Destroy British records that proved the highest members of the Zionist government backed anti-British terrorism. 4 British sergeants hanged, July 12, 1947. Begin, Shamir, and Haganah authorized kidnapping and hanging of two British sergeants, booby trapping their bodies and mining the area. During this time, Shamir sent many letters and package bombs to British officials. 1947 also included multiple cases of kidnappings (including brutal floggings of British soldiers) by Jewish terrorists. The Semiramis Hotel massacre, January 5, 1948. Jewish Agency leader David Ben-Gurion and Haganah leaders blew up the Seramis Hotel in Jerusalem, killing 20 and wounding 17. Purpose: Terrorize Arabs into fleeing Israel. 5 Deir Yassin massacre, April 9, 1948. Begin's Irgun soldiers killed 250 sleeping Arab villagers at Deir Yassin, a suburb of Jerusalem. "25 pregnant women were bayoneted in their abdomens while still alive. 52 children were maimed under the eyes of their mothers and then were slain and their heads cut off." 6 "Menachem Begin, the leader of the Irgun gang, himself admitted on December 28, 1950 in a press interview in New York, that the Deir Yassin incident had been carried out in accordance with an agreement between the Irgun and the Jewish Agency and Haganah." 7 Begin was always proud of what he had done, considering Deir Yassin a legitimate military target. Irgun trucks drove throughout Judea, announcing by loudspeaker to hundreds of thousands of Arabs that unless they fled Israel they would meet the same fate. Deir Yassin and subsequent terrorist acts precipitated flight of more than 800,000 Arabs from Palestine. In town after town Zionist soldiers drove Palestinians out, usually killing any person who delayed or attempted to take any possessions with them. Arab towns were bulldozed, replaced with Jewish communities. 8 Begin comments on the level of Palestinian terror generated by Irgun's massacre at Deir Yassin. "Out of evil, however, good came. This Arab propaganda spread a legend of terror amongst Arabs and Arab troops, who were seized with panic at the mention of Irgun soldiers. The legend was worth a dozen battalions to the forces of Israel." 9 Israel exiled these unfortunates to concentration camps in Lebanon, the West Bank, and Gaza, refusing to allow them repossession of their land and property or adequate compensation. 10 This is the seminal cause of international Arab terrorism and the Mid-East conflict that rages today. Assassination of UN mediator Count Folke Bernadotte, September 17, 1948. This killing by the Stern Gang was on orders of Shamir. Purpose: To sabotage UN efforts to create a Palestinian state. Massacre at Dawayma, October 29, 1948. Israeli soldiers killed between 80 and 100 men, women, and children in Dawayma, a suburb of Haifa. Purpose: Intensify terror generated by Deir Yassin and compel the remaining Palestinians to leave Israel. 11 Massacre at Kibya, October 14, 1953. In an atrocity condoned by the highest levels of the Israeli government and military, Ariel Sharon led 700 crack paratroopers to attack the Jordanian town of Kibya. They slaughtered 75 innocent men, women, and children primarily by locking families in their homes and blowing them up. 12 Purpose: Collective punishment to avenge the alleged killing of a single Jewish family. Massacre of Kafr Kassim, October 29, 1956. 51 men, women, and children were murdered by Israeli troops as they returned to their villages in the evening after work. 13 more were severely wounded by the gunfire. Purpose: Terrorize Palestinians into not siding with Egypt in case of war. 13 Massacre of USS Liberty, June 8, 1967. Israel's jet fighters and torpedo boats repeatedly attempted to sink US intelligence monitoring vessel USS Liberty during the 1967 Israel/Egypt war. They killed 34 and wounded 171 American sailors. Purpose: Minister of Defense Moshe Dayan ordered the attack ostensibly to protect Israel's intelligence communications, even though the war was virtually over. 14 Libyan airliner massacre, February 21, 1973. Straying over Israeli-controlled Sinai air space, a Libyan 727 commercial airliner was intercepted by Israeli fighters and, despite the clearest identification, shot down, killing 106. Purpose: Flexing Zionist power against Libya. 15 Massacre in Sabra and Shatila refugee camps, Beirut, Lebanon, September 23, 1982. Gen. Ariel Sharon and Yitshak Shamir, in cooperation with "Christian" Phalangist forces sealed all exits and provided aerial flares, illuminating the slaughter of up to 2750 men, women, and children, according to a body count by the committee of the Red Cross. Purpose: collective punishment of Palestinians. 16
Assassination of Lord Moyne on November 6, 1944.
Under orders from Yitzhak Shamir, terrorists of the Stern Gang shot Lord Moyne, British resident minister. Purpose: To drive the British from Palestine.
The King David massacre, July 22, 1946.
Begin's Irgun terrorists, with encouragement from Ben-Gurion's Hagana, blew up the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, murdering 92. Purpose: Destroy British records that proved the highest members of the Zionist government backed anti-British terrorism. 4
British sergeants hanged, July 12, 1947.
Begin, Shamir, and Haganah authorized kidnapping and hanging of two British sergeants, booby trapping their bodies and mining the area. During this time, Shamir sent many letters and package bombs to British officials. 1947 also included multiple cases of kidnappings (including brutal floggings of British soldiers) by Jewish terrorists.
The Semiramis Hotel massacre, January 5, 1948.
Jewish Agency leader David Ben-Gurion and Haganah leaders blew up the Seramis Hotel in Jerusalem, killing 20 and wounding 17. Purpose: Terrorize Arabs into fleeing Israel. 5
Deir Yassin massacre, April 9, 1948.
Begin's Irgun soldiers killed 250 sleeping Arab villagers at Deir Yassin, a suburb of Jerusalem.
"25 pregnant women were bayoneted in their abdomens while still alive. 52 children were maimed under the eyes of their mothers and then were slain and their heads cut off." 6
"Menachem Begin, the leader of the Irgun gang, himself admitted on December 28, 1950 in a press interview in New York, that the Deir Yassin incident had been carried out in accordance with an agreement between the Irgun and the Jewish Agency and Haganah." 7
Begin was always proud of what he had done, considering Deir Yassin a legitimate military target. Irgun trucks drove throughout Judea, announcing by loudspeaker to hundreds of thousands of Arabs that unless they fled Israel they would meet the same fate. Deir Yassin and subsequent terrorist acts precipitated flight of more than 800,000 Arabs from Palestine. In town after town Zionist soldiers drove Palestinians out, usually killing any person who delayed or attempted to take any possessions with them. Arab towns were bulldozed, replaced with Jewish communities. 8
Begin comments on the level of Palestinian terror generated by Irgun's massacre at Deir Yassin.
"Out of evil, however, good came. This Arab propaganda spread a legend of terror amongst Arabs and Arab troops, who were seized with panic at the mention of Irgun soldiers. The legend was worth a dozen battalions to the forces of Israel." 9
Israel exiled these unfortunates to concentration camps in Lebanon, the West Bank, and Gaza, refusing to allow them repossession of their land and property or adequate compensation. 10 This is the seminal cause of international Arab terrorism and the Mid-East conflict that rages today.
Assassination of UN mediator Count Folke Bernadotte, September 17, 1948.
This killing by the Stern Gang was on orders of Shamir. Purpose: To sabotage UN efforts to create a Palestinian state.
Massacre at Dawayma, October 29, 1948.
Israeli soldiers killed between 80 and 100 men, women, and children in Dawayma, a suburb of Haifa. Purpose: Intensify terror generated by Deir Yassin and compel the remaining Palestinians to leave Israel. 11
Massacre at Kibya, October 14, 1953.
In an atrocity condoned by the highest levels of the Israeli government and military, Ariel Sharon led 700 crack paratroopers to attack the Jordanian town of Kibya. They slaughtered 75 innocent men, women, and children primarily by locking families in their homes and blowing them up. 12 Purpose: Collective punishment to avenge the alleged killing of a single Jewish family.
Massacre of Kafr Kassim, October 29, 1956.
51 men, women, and children were murdered by Israeli troops as they returned to their villages in the evening after work. 13 more were severely wounded by the gunfire. Purpose: Terrorize Palestinians into not siding with Egypt in case of war. 13
Massacre of USS Liberty, June 8, 1967.
Israel's jet fighters and torpedo boats repeatedly attempted to sink US intelligence monitoring vessel USS Liberty during the 1967 Israel/Egypt war. They killed 34 and wounded 171 American sailors. Purpose: Minister of Defense Moshe Dayan ordered the attack ostensibly to protect Israel's intelligence communications, even though the war was virtually over. 14
Libyan airliner massacre, February 21, 1973.
Straying over Israeli-controlled Sinai air space, a Libyan 727 commercial airliner was intercepted by Israeli fighters and, despite the clearest identification, shot down, killing 106. Purpose: Flexing Zionist power against Libya. 15
Massacre in Sabra and Shatila refugee camps, Beirut, Lebanon, September 23, 1982.
Gen. Ariel Sharon and Yitshak Shamir, in cooperation with "Christian" Phalangist forces sealed all exits and provided aerial flares, illuminating the slaughter of up to 2750 men, women, and children, according to a body count by the committee of the Red Cross. Purpose: collective punishment of Palestinians. 16
What About Arab Terrorism? It was inevitable that Zionism's threatened and actual expulsion of Arabs from land the Arabs occupied from the seventh century should incur hostility even terrorism.
Jews of Hebron were massacred by Arabs in 1929. The Arab revolt in Palestine beginning in 1936 resulted in acts of violence against many Jews, followed by anti-Jewish mistreatment during the 1948 war. Suicide bombings and rocket attacks continue against Israel in recent years. Who is most at fault?
Consider this: If someone, claiming divine right to occupy your house and land, drives you from them, condemning you and your children to a distant, arid concentration camp for generations, would you resort to violence? There is only one word that describes the one who displaced you. Aggressor. The Palestinians, fanatical and terrorist as many have become, are nevertheless defenders of ancient rights and territories that have been horrifically violated.
They are victims hitting back.
Becoming "Civilized" Terrorists?
http://www.truthtellers.org/alerts/acluheavywithjews.html During the past 40 years, Israel's continuing atrocities are justified as "collective punishment" of the Palestinian people.
Israel's attack on Lebanon in 1982, described by Israel as such punishment, killed over 19,000 innocent men, women and children. Under Sharon's invasion of the West Bank under Sharon in 2002, whole villages were attacked with Hellfire missiles from Apache helicopters, with occupied homes shelled by tanks or bulldozed over.
4,185 Palestinian men were seized, beaten, jailed. The number of dead is still uncertain since Sharon would not allow western observers to document the aftermath.17 Israel's present policies in the West Bank and Gaza, routinely killing large numbers of innocent men, women and children, remain full of atrocities. I have also written about one of the greatest atrocities Israel still indulges in: the systematic and fiendish torture of many thousands of Palestinian prisoners, incarcerated, most without trial, in Israeli prisons.18 After leaders of the Third Reich committed atrocities against the Jews during World War II, they were tried, hanged and buried, both physically and under the contempt of humanity. The opposite happened to the bloody and arrogant terrorists of Israel. Ben-Gurion, Begin, Shamir, and Sharon were all elected to leadership of the nation.
This reflected the anti-Palestinian, terrorism-friendly mentality of many Israeli voters.19
The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem documents, from United Nations records, more than 650 attacks by Jewish settlers and the Israeli military against Arabs between 1948 and 1998. 20 Shamefully, evangelical Christians have given uninterrupted support to Israel's terrorist leaders. Evangelicals believe God brought to birth the state of Israel by divine assistance at every stage. Actually, statehood (i.e. expulsion of the British and Arabs) was made possible by massacre starting at Deir Yassin.
Yet there has never been an atrocity in Israel searing enough to alienate Christian idealism, or even prompt criticism from major evangelical leaders. Dr. Jerry Falwell said Begin was a "man of God."
George Bush described Sharon as a "man of peace." What kind of a God would establish a nation on terror? A God who is as evil as the devil.
Video
Ted Pike - Hate Laws
Endnotes
See <http://www.truthtellers.org/alerts/jewsconfirmbigmedia.html>Jews Confirm Big Media Is Jewish. The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, by Dr. Issa Nakhleh, Intercontinental Books, New York, 1991, pp. 65-250. Ibid, pp. 65-68, 269 and elsewhere provide abundant documentation of the close cooperation between Ben-Gurion's Hagana, the Jewish Agency, Irgun, and the Stern Gang. So does Menachim Begin in his book, "Revolt!" and in public statements. Ibid, p. 269. United Nations Security Counsel Official Records, Semiramis, 1948, Document S/740 says, "Hagana terrorists made a most barbarous attack at... the Semiramis Hotel, killing innocent people and wounding many. The Jewish Agency terrorist forces blasted the entrance and then placed bombs in the basement... the whole building collapsed with its residents." Ibid, pg. 271 Ibid, pg. 272 Ibid, pp. 295-393. "They expelled 90 percent of the inhabitants of the occupied area by massacre and force. They destroyed 425 Arab towns and villages as well as 67 villages and localities of the Bedouin tribes." (pg. 332) Menachem Begin. "The Revolt." (London, W. H. Allen, 1983.) Pg. 164. Israeli propaganda says Palestinians did not flee because of pressure from Israel. Rather, Arab leaders, fearing Palestinians would be caught in crossfire between Jew and invading Arab armies, encouraged them to find temporary shelter in Lebanon and Jordan. It says that, considering their lack of loyalty to their ancestral lands and property, as well as the newly created state of Israel, they are worthy of neither repatriation, repossession nor reimbursement. Instead they should have been assimilated by wealthy Arab nations. The fact that millions remain in virtual concentration camps is the fault of the uncaring Arab world, not Israel. Israel also contends that after 1948 its hundreds of Jewish settlements were built, not on previous Arab villages, but on barren lands the Arabs had been too lazy to develop. Evangelicals accept these lies unquestioningly. Zionist soldiers admitted, "They killed some eighty to one hundred Arabs, women and children. The children were killed by smashing their skulls with clubs. In the village there remained Arab men and women who were put in the houses without food. Then the sappers came to blow up the houses." Quoted in David Gilmour, "Dispossessed: The Ordeal of the Palestinians". (London: Sphere Books, 1980), pp. 68-69. General Van Bennike, testifying before the United Nations Security Council said: "Bullet-ridden bodies near the doorways and multiple bullet holes on the doors of the demolished houses indicated that the inhabitants had been forced to remain inside until their homes were blown up over them." United Nations Security Council Official Records, Resolution, 1953, S/3139/Rev. 2. Quoted in The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pg. 274. The Israeli daily Kol Haam published on its front page the full story of the Kafr Kassim massacre. It said: "the men of the Israeli Frontier Guard killed 47 Arab citizens in Kafr Kassim. The killing was carried out in cold blood and for no reason." Kol Haam's story is published in its entirety in The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pg. 278. The Encyclopedia of the Palestinian Problem, pg. 282. Ibid, pg 283. Ibid, pg. 284. Here are typical Israeli atrocities during the Gaza invasion, as documented by Human Rights Watch: "14-year-old Muhammad Hawashin was shot twice in the face and killed on April 3rd, as he walked with a group of women and children toward the local hospital. Wheelchair bound Kamal Zghair, 57-years-old, was shot and run over by IDF tanks on April 10th as he wheeled himself down the road to his home, equipped with a white flag. Afaf Disuqi, an unarmed civilian responded to a knock on her door on April 5th and was killed by a bomb thrown by IDF soldiers. Eye witnesses reported that the soldiers were laughing as Disuqi was horribly mutilated by the blast." <http://www.wsws.org/articles/2002/may2002/hrwa-m10.shtml>"Human Rights Watch Report Into Jenin Accuses Israel of War Crimes." Julie Hyland. World Socialist Web Site. <http://www.wsws.org/>www.wsws.org. 10 May 2002. See, <http://www.truthtellers.org/alerts/tortureinisraeliprisons.htm>Torture in Israeli Prisons. According to Israeli newspaper Haaretz, hatred and racism toward Palestinians is still intense. <http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/966014.html>"Study: Israeli Jews Becoming Increasingly Racist Toward Arabs." 19 March 2008. The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pp. 413-433.
See <http://www.truthtellers.org/alerts/jewsconfirmbigmedia.html>Jews Confirm Big Media Is Jewish.
The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, by Dr. Issa Nakhleh, Intercontinental Books, New York, 1991, pp. 65-250.
Ibid, pp. 65-68, 269 and elsewhere provide abundant documentation of the close cooperation between Ben-Gurion's Hagana, the Jewish Agency, Irgun, and the Stern Gang. So does Menachim Begin in his book, "Revolt!" and in public statements.
Ibid, p. 269.
United Nations Security Counsel Official Records, Semiramis, 1948, Document S/740 says,
"Hagana terrorists made a most barbarous attack at... the Semiramis Hotel, killing innocent people and wounding many. The Jewish Agency terrorist forces blasted the entrance and then placed bombs in the basement... the whole building collapsed with its residents."
Ibid, pg. 271
Ibid, pg. 272
Ibid, pp. 295-393.
"They expelled 90 percent of the inhabitants of the occupied area by massacre and force. They destroyed 425 Arab towns and villages as well as 67 villages and localities of the Bedouin tribes."
(pg. 332)
Menachem Begin. "The Revolt." (London, W. H. Allen, 1983.) Pg. 164.
Israeli propaganda says Palestinians did not flee because of pressure from Israel. Rather, Arab leaders, fearing Palestinians would be caught in crossfire between Jew and invading Arab armies, encouraged them to find temporary shelter in Lebanon and Jordan. It says that, considering their lack of loyalty to their ancestral lands and property, as well as the newly created state of Israel, they are worthy of neither repatriation, repossession nor reimbursement. Instead they should have been assimilated by wealthy Arab nations. The fact that millions remain in virtual concentration camps is the fault of the uncaring Arab world, not Israel. Israel also contends that after 1948 its hundreds of Jewish settlements were built, not on previous Arab villages, but on barren lands the Arabs had been too lazy to develop. Evangelicals accept these lies unquestioningly.
Zionist soldiers admitted,
"They killed some eighty to one hundred Arabs, women and children. The children were killed by smashing their skulls with clubs. In the village there remained Arab men and women who were put in the houses without food. Then the sappers came to blow up the houses."
Quoted in David Gilmour, "Dispossessed: The Ordeal of the Palestinians". (London: Sphere Books, 1980), pp. 68-69.
General Van Bennike, testifying before the United Nations Security Council said:
"Bullet-ridden bodies near the doorways and multiple bullet holes on the doors of the demolished houses indicated that the inhabitants had been forced to remain inside until their homes were blown up over them."
United Nations Security Council Official Records, Resolution, 1953, S/3139/Rev. 2. Quoted in The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pg. 274.
The Israeli daily Kol Haam published on its front page the full story of the Kafr Kassim massacre. It said:
"the men of the Israeli Frontier Guard killed 47 Arab citizens in Kafr Kassim. The killing was carried out in cold blood and for no reason."
Kol Haam's story is published in its entirety in The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pg. 278.
The Encyclopedia of the Palestinian Problem, pg. 282.
Ibid, pg 283.
Ibid, pg. 284.
Here are typical Israeli atrocities during the Gaza invasion, as documented by Human Rights Watch:
"14-year-old Muhammad Hawashin was shot twice in the face and killed on April 3rd, as he walked with a group of women and children toward the local hospital. Wheelchair bound Kamal Zghair, 57-years-old, was shot and run over by IDF tanks on April 10th as he wheeled himself down the road to his home, equipped with a white flag. Afaf Disuqi, an unarmed civilian responded to a knock on her door on April 5th and was killed by a bomb thrown by IDF soldiers. Eye witnesses reported that the soldiers were laughing as Disuqi was horribly mutilated by the blast."
<http://www.wsws.org/articles/2002/may2002/hrwa-m10.shtml>"Human Rights Watch Report Into Jenin Accuses Israel of War Crimes." Julie Hyland. World Socialist Web Site. <http://www.wsws.org/>www.wsws.org. 10 May 2002.
See, <http://www.truthtellers.org/alerts/tortureinisraeliprisons.htm>Torture in Israeli Prisons.
According to Israeli newspaper Haaretz, hatred and racism toward Palestinians is still intense. <http://www.haaretz.com/hasen/spages/966014.html>"Study: Israeli Jews Becoming Increasingly Racist Toward Arabs." 19 March 2008.
The Encyclopedia of the Palestine Problem, pp. 413-433.
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The Protocols of The Learned Elders of Zion
