# Its Symbols Venerate The Sex Act - Study of Symbols

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_brotherhoodss01e.htm

Rituals of Freemasonry Freemasonry Proven To Worship Satan
Its Symbols Venerate The Sex Act - Study of Symbols Part 5 of 5
Pagans have worshipped animals, insects, birds, rivers, forests, trees, and many other things, but they all have one type of worship in common: they worship the sex act between man and woman. The worship both the man's penis and the woman's vulva. In reading their explanations for these symbols, you should be amazed at the creativity they demonstrate in assigning sexual connotations to many of their symbols. Freemasons do this very thing; however, they differ from the Satanist in that they hide much of the sexual content in many of their symbols. If you will remember, Carl Claudy was quoted on a previous page, he says that Masonry has layers upon layers of meanings for the very same symbol, and you have to just keep digging until you get them all. Sexual connotations have been assigned to many of the symbols that are most commonly used in the Fraternity, and for which other, meanings [completely non-sexual] have been taught to the lower level Mason.
SEXUAL CONNOTATIONS TO MASONIC SYMBOLS
SEX IN THE "G"
The letter "G" is displayed quite often in Masonic symbols. The initiate is told that this letter stands for "God" and for "Geometry," which the Supreme Architect of the Universe used to design the universe. However, Arthur Waite, Occultist and 33rd Degree Mason quotes Eliphas Levi who is also a 33rd Degree, tells us that the letter "G" stands for Venus, and that Venus' symbol is a lingam, a stylized phallis. [Arthur Edward Waite, The Mysteries of Magic: A Digest of the Writings of Eliphas Levi, 1909] Albert Pike states within Morals and Dogma [page 631-32] that the Monad [#1] is male, and the Duad [#2] is female. Their sexual union produces the Triad [#3], which is "represented by the letter 'G', the generative principle."
SEX ACT IN COLUMNS -- BROKEN AND UNBROKEN
The broken column is utilized by the Eastern Star and Freemasonry. It contains many levels of meanings. The initiate is told that the broken column signifies an early death. The Mason learns later on that columns represent gods. [Joseph Fort Newton, The Builders: A Story and Study of Masonry,1914]
A different hidden meaning for the broken column is learned later on by the Mason.
"In Egyptian Mythology, Isis is sometimes pictured weeping over the broken column, which conceals the body of her husband, Osiris, while behind her stands Horus, or Time, pouring ambrosia over her hair."
Isis was both virgin and mother, so the 'beautiful virgin is Isis weeping. The broken column is the missing member of Osiris, the Phallus. [Short Talk Bulletin, "The Broken Column," Feb, 1956, p. 6-7; also Edmond Ronayne, The Master's Carpet 1879] Horus is another name for Satan. Isis is the consort of Lucifer. Isis just lost her husband (Osiris), that is the reason why she is weeping. Osiris' body was dismembered, including his penis, which had been cut into many sections. Isis and Osiris were wrote about by Albert Pike, saying they were,
"the Active and Passive Principles of the Universe ... commonly symbolized by the generative parts of man and woman ..." [Morals and Dogma, p. 401]
"the Active and Passive Principles of the Universe ... commonly symbolized by the generative parts of man and woman ..."
[Morals and Dogma, p. 401]
You must focus on the bottom of the broken column and not the top. The bottom of the column shows the phallic upright column inserted into the circular base, which is the symbol of the female vulva. The column is broken, of course, to symbolize the belief that Osiris' penis had been cut into many sections. But Albert Mackey, 33 Degree Masonic author, states that the regular column is a phallus symbol.
"The Phallus was an imitation of the male generative organ. It was represented usually by a column, was was surrounded by a circle at the base." [Mackey, A Manual of the Lodge, 1870. Mackey also stated this in The Symbolism of Freemasonry]
"The Phallus was an imitation of the male generative organ. It was represented usually by a column, was was surrounded by a circle at the base."
[Mackey, A Manual of the Lodge, 1870. Mackey also stated this in The Symbolism of Freemasonry]
SEX IN THE POINT WITHIN A CIRCLE
The point and the circle carries a sexual connotation. Another Masonic author states that this symbol is used in Sun Worship, and then says:
"The female principle, symbolized by the moon, assumed the form of a lunette [small circular opening], or crescent, while the male principle, symbolized by the sun, assumed the form of the lingam [Phallus] and placed himself erect in the center of the lunette, like the mast of a ship." ["Point Within A Circle," Short Talk Bulletin , August, 1931, Masonic Bulletin designed to read within the Lodges, p. 4]
"The female principle, symbolized by the moon, assumed the form of a lunette [small circular opening], or crescent, while the male principle, symbolized by the sun, assumed the form of the lingam [Phallus] and placed himself erect in the center of the lunette, like the mast of a ship."
["Point Within A Circle," Short Talk Bulletin , August, 1931, Masonic Bulletin designed to read within the Lodges, p. 4]
SEX WITHIN A CIRCLE
The circle is commonly used to depict the female sexual organ. Satanists love to use the "Eight-Step Path of Enlightenment." (left) They believe a person needs to go through eight separate steps to become fully enlightened spiritually. The final step which is the eighth step, is the Sex Act. Notice that the very center of this symbol is a very small circle. This symbol is the ultimate female sexual representation. Probably the most famous of all obelisks in the world, is the Washington Monument. It is believed that the spirit of the Egyptian Sun God, Ra, resides within the obelisk, and they pray to it three times daily, if possible, and facing East.
The obelisk is the most recognized of all phallic symbols.
The sex act between male and female is represented by an obelisk within a circle. The Washington Monument sits within a circle. Freemasonry planned, designed, and created the Washington Monument. The obelisk is greatly revered in Masonry, as a quick tour of any cemetery in New England will tell you.
You can tell which graves are Masonic by the obelisks as their headstone.
THE TRIANGLE AND HEXAGRAM
Masonic author, R.H. MacKenzie, states that,
"among Egyptians, the base [of the triangle] represented Osiris, or the Male Principle; the perpendicular, Isis, or the Female Principle; and the hypotenuse, Horus, their son ..." [Kenneth R.H. MacKenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia of History, Rites, Symbolism, and Biography, 1877]
"among Egyptians, the base [of the triangle] represented Osiris, or the Male Principle; the perpendicular, Isis, or the Female Principle; and the hypotenuse, Horus, their son ..."
[Kenneth R.H. MacKenzie, The Royal Masonic Cyclopaedia of History, Rites, Symbolism, and Biography, 1877]
Thus, you can see that the hypotenuse was conceived as a result of the sexual union of the base and the perpendicular. Within Masonic symbolism, the sex act is portrayed as the union of the perpendicular and the base. We have pictured the triangle, above, with the symbol of the Tau within. Masonic author, R. Swinburne Clymer typifies Masonic symbolism of the Tau when he states,
"The Phallus, or Lingam, and the Yoni, the male and female emblems of generation, are found in the triangle and the tau." [Clymer, The Mysteries of Osiris or Ancient Egyptian Initiation, 1951]
"The Phallus, or Lingam, and the Yoni, the male and female emblems of generation, are found in the triangle and the tau."
[Clymer, The Mysteries of Osiris or Ancient Egyptian Initiation, 1951]
Masonic author, Albert Mackey, tells us of the sexual connotation of this hexagram.
"The triangle pointing downward is a female symbol corresponding to the yoni and the upward pointing triangle is the male, the lingam ... When the two triangles are interlaced, it represents the union of the active and passive forces in nature; it represents the male and female elements." [Mackey, The Symbolism of Freemasonry, 1869; also Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma, 1871; also Wes Cook, Editor, Did You Know? Vignettes in Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine, Missouri Lodge For Research, 1965, p. 132]
"The triangle pointing downward is a female symbol corresponding to the yoni and the upward pointing triangle is the male, the lingam ... When the two triangles are interlaced, it represents the union of the active and passive forces in nature; it represents the male and female elements."
[Mackey, The Symbolism of Freemasonry, 1869; also Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma, 1871; also Wes Cook, Editor, Did You Know? Vignettes in Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine, Missouri Lodge For Research, 1965, p. 132]
To the Mason, the interlacing triangles of the hexagram depict sexual intercourse.
Yin and Yang is one of the most commonly used symbols today, including logos of many organizations and companies.
"Yin and yang are considered to be opposites. Yin represents eternity, dark, feminine, left side of the body, etc. Yang is its opposite, and represents history, light, masculine, right side of the body, etc." [Philip G. Zimbardo and Floyd L. Ruch, Psychology and Life, 1977] "Yang is male, positive, and represented by the Sun. Yin is female, negative, and represented by the moon." [Paul E. Desautels, The Gem Kingdom , p. 237.] The symbol itself dates back at least to the fourth century, B.C., and has been identified with the Eastern philosophical religions of Confucianism, Buddhim, and Taoism. In the Western world, it has long been adopted into the symbolism of myth, magic, astrology and witchcraft." [Claire Chambers, The SIECUS Circle: A Humanist Revolution , 1977, p. v] "Another ancient magical sign called the yin-and-yang first appeared sometime before the 3rd century, B.C., in China. This emblem became the favorite of SORCERERS and mystics throughout the Orient because it, too, embodies so many possible meanings." [Gary Jennings, Black Magic, White Magic, 1964]
"Yin and yang are considered to be opposites. Yin represents eternity, dark, feminine, left side of the body, etc. Yang is its opposite, and represents history, light, masculine, right side of the body, etc."
[Philip G. Zimbardo and Floyd L. Ruch, Psychology and Life, 1977] "Yang is male, positive, and represented by the Sun. Yin is female, negative, and represented by the moon."
[Paul E. Desautels, The Gem Kingdom , p. 237.] The symbol itself dates back at least to the fourth century, B.C., and has been identified with the Eastern philosophical religions of Confucianism, Buddhim, and Taoism. In the Western world, it has long been adopted into the symbolism of myth, magic, astrology and witchcraft."
[Claire Chambers, The SIECUS Circle: A Humanist Revolution , 1977, p. v]
"Another ancient magical sign called the yin-and-yang first appeared sometime before the 3rd century, B.C., in China. This emblem became the favorite of SORCERERS and mystics throughout the Orient because it, too, embodies so many possible meanings."
[Gary Jennings, Black Magic, White Magic, 1964]
Does Freemasonry adopt and use the symbolism of Yin/Yang? Indeed, they do, but in a way as to hide the meaning form the "profane." Listen to Albert Pike.
The black and white pavement symbolizes,
"the Good and Evil, principles of the Egyptian and Persian creed. It is the warfare of Michael and Satan ... light and shadow, which is darkness; Day and Night, Freedom and Despotism ... [Morals and Dogma , p. 14] "Masons also use the two triangles to represent this idea of opposites. In Short Talk Bulletin, a pamphlet which is to be read in the Lodges, we are told that the triangles are symbolic of good and evil, day and night, the Chinese Yang and Yin ..." [Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated, quoting Masonic publication, Short Talk Bulletin, "The Significant Numbers," September, 1956, Vol. 34, No. 9, p. 5; also Wes Cook, Did You Know? Vignettes In Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine, Missouri Lodge of Research, 1965, p. 34]
"the Good and Evil, principles of the Egyptian and Persian creed. It is the warfare of Michael and Satan ... light and shadow, which is darkness; Day and Night, Freedom and Despotism ...
[Morals and Dogma , p. 14]
"Masons also use the two triangles to represent this idea of opposites. In Short Talk Bulletin, a pamphlet which is to be read in the Lodges, we are told that the triangles are symbolic of good and evil, day and night, the Chinese Yang and Yin ..."
[Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated, quoting Masonic publication, Short Talk Bulletin, "The Significant Numbers," September, 1956, Vol. 34, No. 9, p. 5; also Wes Cook, Did You Know? Vignettes In Masonry from the Royal Arch Mason Magazine, Missouri Lodge of Research, 1965, p. 34]
I had always wondered about the distinctive black and white squares on Masonic floors, as depicted on Washington's apron, above. Now we know they represent the concept of Yin and Yang, the "favorite of sorcerers." Masons also use two triangles joined together to represent Yin and Yang. Therefore, their depiction of the Hexagram also depicts Yin and Yang. We have described the sexual connotation to the Mason of the Hexagram, above. However, Masonry also teaches about the Yin and Yang symbol.
"Thus the monad [#1] and the duad [#2] were the phallus and kteis of the Greeks, the lingam and yoni of the Hindoos (sic) ... and the Yang and Yin of the Chinese ..." [George Oliver, The Historical Landmarks and Other Evidences of Freemasonry, 1855]
"Thus the monad [#1] and the duad [#2] were the phallus and kteis of the Greeks, the lingam and yoni of the Hindoos (sic) ... and the Yang and Yin of the Chinese ..."
[George Oliver, The Historical Landmarks and Other Evidences of Freemasonry, 1855]
The Yin and Yang symbol is also used to represent bisexuality and homosexuality within today's New Age Movement. It is also used to depict Divination. [Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated, p. 19-22] Do not be deceived: Freemasonry depicts Yin and Yang a little differently than a traditional New Age, or occultist, or Satanist. They use the hexagram and the black and white tile floors; but, their belief in Yin and Yang is identical to the Satanist Mysteries.
But, why should we be surprised, for Albert Pike told us that Freemasonry is "identical to the Mysteries."
MASONIC EMBLEM OF SQUARE AND COMPASS DEPICTING SEX
Masonic authors boldly state that the symbolism of the traditional square and compass of Freemasonry represents the heterosexual sex act. Listen to Albert Pike explaining this fact to members of the 32nd Degree.
"The Compass, therefore, is the Hermetic Symbol of the Creative Deity, and the Square of the productive Earth or Universe." [Morals and Dogma , p. 850-1].
"The Compass, therefore, is the Hermetic Symbol of the Creative Deity, and the Square of the productive Earth or Universe."
[Morals and Dogma , p. 850-1].
Therefore, the Masons look at the compass as the male phallus and the square as the female vulva. As you look at the Masonic Emblem here, you can see the obvious penetration of the female square point by the points of the Compass. One point of difference here is that the Satanist generally reverses the sex roles of the Compass and the Square.
However, whichever way you look at it, the Compass and the Square are thought of as depicting the heterosexual sex act.
A MOST EVIL SYMBOL
Before we leave the subject of the Masonic Emblem of the Square and Compass, I want to show you a particularly evil symbol depicting the Square and Compass.
This scene depicts several unmistakable Satanic images, tied in with the Masonic Emblem, also known as the Square and Compass.
First, note the hexagram to the far left of the picture. Remember, the hexagram is the most evil of all Black Magick symbols. Witches have used it for years to cast curses on people; many people in the past few thousand years have died by having a hex placed on them. Second, notice the Sun over head in this picture. Just as the Egyptians did in the days when God cursed them and their religion, Freemasons worship the Sun in general and the Egyptian Sun God, Ra, particularly.
Finally, note that the sharp end of the square is driving deeply into the Holy Bible beneath. As Christian author, Ralph Epperson proves in his book, Masonry: Conspiracy Against Christianity, the #1 top secret of Masonry is not that they worship Satan/Lucifer; rather, the #1 secret of Freemasonry is that they plan to eradicate Christianity in complete fulfillment of End Time prophecies!
This symbol captures this goal perfectly.
SEX IN MASONIC TEMPLE -- AND THE POMEGRANATE
"The lodge is a representation of King Solomon's Temple and the Temple was calculated to symbolize the maternal human body, wherein the candidate must enter to be born again . The uterus and vagina represent the porch of the Temple, the pillars of the porch represent the fallopian tubes, the network, the broad ligament with its accompanying blood vessels ... and the pomegranate, the ovary and its exuberant seeds, the ova cells." [Rollin C. Blackmer, The Lodge and the Craft: A Practical Explanation of the Work of Freemasonry, 1923]
"The lodge is a representation of King Solomon's Temple and the Temple was calculated to symbolize the maternal human body, wherein the candidate must enter to be born again . The uterus and vagina represent the porch of the Temple, the pillars of the porch represent the fallopian tubes, the network, the broad ligament with its accompanying blood vessels ... and the pomegranate, the ovary and its exuberant seeds, the ova cells."
[Rollin C. Blackmer, The Lodge and the Craft: A Practical Explanation of the Work of Freemasonry, 1923]
THE TORCH AND STATUE OF LIBERTY
Satanists have always equated the flaming torch as a symbol of Lucifer.
"Lucifer, having regained his star and his diadem, will assemble his legions for new works of creation. Attracted by his flaming torch, celestial spirits will descend ... and he will send these messengers from unknown spheres to earth. Then, the torch of Lucifer will signal 'From Heaven to Earth!' -- and the (New Age) Christ will answer, 'From Earth to Heaven'." [Edourd Schure, quoted by Texe Marrs, Mystery Mark of the New Age, p. 240]
"Lucifer, having regained his star and his diadem, will assemble his legions for new works of creation. Attracted by his flaming torch, celestial spirits will descend ... and he will send these messengers from unknown spheres to earth. Then, the torch of Lucifer will signal 'From Heaven to Earth!' -- and the (New Age) Christ will answer, 'From Earth to Heaven'."
[Edourd Schure, quoted by Texe Marrs, Mystery Mark of the New Age, p. 240]
This explanation of the symbolism of the torch is the Luciferian belief that, at the Battle of Armageddon, Lucifer and his forces will defeat Jesus Christ and then conquer Heaven. Thus, the Torch signifies the belief that Lucifer will ultimately defeat Jesus Christ. Masonic author, Manley P. Hall, 33 Degree Mason, states that,
"the torches represent the occult arts and sciences, the doctrines and dogmas by the light of which Truth is made visible." [Hall, Freemasonry of the Ancient Egyptians to Which Is Added an Interpretation of the Crata Repoa Initiation Rite, The Philosophers Press, 1937]
"the torches represent the occult arts and sciences, the doctrines and dogmas by the light of which Truth is made visible."
[Hall, Freemasonry of the Ancient Egyptians to Which Is Added an Interpretation of the Crata Repoa Initiation Rite, The Philosophers Press, 1937]
We also find it highly interesting that one of the Masonic publishing houses is called The Torch Press. We also know from history that the Statue of Liberty was given to us by Illuminist French Freemasons in 1876.
"Towering above the shimmering but polluted waters, she holds in her outreached arm and hand a torch of fire and light. A gift of the Masonic Order, the modern inheritors of the Illuminati heritage, the Statue of Liberty was sculptured by Frederic Bartholdi, a member of the Masonic Lodge of Alsace-Lorraine in Paris, France. The statue is significant to the secret societies plotting the New World order." [Texe Marrs, Dark Majesty: The Secret Brotherhood and the Magic of a Thousand Points of Light, p. 212]
"Towering above the shimmering but polluted waters, she holds in her outreached arm and hand a torch of fire and light. A gift of the Masonic Order, the modern inheritors of the Illuminati heritage, the Statue of Liberty was sculptured by Frederic Bartholdi, a member of the Masonic Lodge of Alsace-Lorraine in Paris, France. The statue is significant to the secret societies plotting the New World order."
[Texe Marrs, Dark Majesty: The Secret Brotherhood and the Magic of a Thousand Points of Light, p. 212]
Note that our symbol of the Statue of Liberty was the actual terra cota model constructed in 1870 by the Masonic sculptor. In Satanism, virtually any perpendicular symbol is the phallus , so the torch certainly qualifies; indeed, one might wonder, from the explanation given, above, that the torch is Lucifer's phallus, if the occultist really believes the torch is a symbol of the god. The goddess holding the torch would provide a good female symbol.
Thus, the Freemason depicts the sex act every single day of every year, in New York harbor.
SEX AND THE MASONIC GAVEL
"The gavel is an important Masonic and Eastern Star symbol." [Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols , p326]
"The gavel is an important Masonic and Eastern Star symbol."
[Dr. C. Burns, Masonic and Occult Symbols , p326]
The first thing I noticed about the symbol of the gavels is that they were always depicted upside down. I would have thought they would have been depicted with the head of the gavel at the top. However, we are not thinking like a pagan, who worships sex in all forms, and never lets an opportunity slip by him to depict the great sex act. Masonic author, George Oliver, says that in ancient times, the gavel referred to the hammer of the God Thor. [Oliver, Signs and Symbols, 1906]. We know that Thor is an ancient pagan god, one whom Freemasons worship. In fact, Thor is part of the pagan Trinity in Scandinavia [Pike, Morals and Dogma; also W.L. Wilmshurst, The Masonic Initiation, 1980] However, Albert Pike makes identification of Thor very easy for us, as he states, on page 15 of Morals and Dogma, that Thor is another name for Sirius, the Blazing Star or the Pentagram. Now you can see why this Masonic Web Site depicted three different types of gavels in the familiar pentagram, above right.
However, on page 381, Pike also tells us that Thor WAS the Sun, the Egyptian Osiris, and Kneph, the Phoenician Bel or Baal. The Bible tells us that worshipping Baal is identical to worshipping the Devil. God condemned Baal worship, slaughtered the priests of Baal, and finally abolished it altogether in Israel. Yet, here, Freemasonry boldly states that they revere him. But, let us get back to the subject at hand, i.e., sexual connotations of Masonic symbols. Masonic author, J.S.M. Ward states,
"Thus we see that the hammer or gavel, and the Tau, were originally the same, and this is a natural evolution of symbols, for the Tau Cross is evolved from the Phallus, and that is the symbol of God the Creator ..." [Ward, Freemasonry and the Ancient Gods, 1921] "But this is not the only place where the tau cross occurs. The ... gavels are all T-crosses, and combine in one symbol the hammer, the sign of the rule, and the T-cross, the symbol of the male or creative side of the Deity; and, lest there should be any mistake, the T is placed on the apron of the Master of the Lodge, though placed upside down so as to give the symbol of the square, and also to emphasize its phallic meaning." [Ibid.]
"Thus we see that the hammer or gavel, and the Tau, were originally the same, and this is a natural evolution of symbols, for the Tau Cross is evolved from the Phallus, and that is the symbol of God the Creator ..."
[Ward, Freemasonry and the Ancient Gods, 1921]
"But this is not the only place where the tau cross occurs. The ... gavels are all T-crosses, and combine in one symbol the hammer, the sign of the rule, and the T-cross, the symbol of the male or creative side of the Deity; and, lest there should be any mistake, the T is placed on the apron of the Master of the Lodge, though placed upside down so as to give the symbol of the square, and also to emphasize its phallic meaning."
[Ibid.]
When we were discussing the Triangle and the Hexagram, above, we displayed a Tau Cross [T-Cross] within a triangle and circle. The Tau-Cross was originally created to worship the Babylonian god, Tammuz.
SEX AT THE END OF THE MASONIC RAINBOW
Masonic author, George Oliver states,
"It is remarkable that in all the ancient systems of mythology, the Great Father, or the Male Generative Principle [Phallus] was uniformly symbolized by a point within a circle. This emblem was placed by the Scandinavian priests and poets on the central summit of a rainbow, which was fabled to be a bridge leading from earth [Female Vulva] to heaven [Great Father's Phallus]." [Oliver, Signs and Symbols; also R. Swinburne, The Mysteries of Osiris or Ancient Egyptian Initiation]
"It is remarkable that in all the ancient systems of mythology, the Great Father, or the Male Generative Principle [Phallus] was uniformly symbolized by a point within a circle. This emblem was placed by the Scandinavian priests and poets on the central summit of a rainbow, which was fabled to be a bridge leading from earth [Female Vulva] to heaven [Great Father's Phallus]."
[Oliver, Signs and Symbols; also R. Swinburne, The Mysteries of Osiris or Ancient Egyptian Initiation]
"In the ancient Jewish Kabbala... mystical rabbis taught that the rainbow symbolized a sexual rite. The bow of the rainbow was supposedly the phallus of the male god which descended into the kingdom of the womb, the queen or goddess. The union was said to create immense divine powers." [Texe Marrs, Mystery Mark of the New Age]
"In the ancient Jewish Kabbala... mystical rabbis taught that the rainbow symbolized a sexual rite. The bow of the rainbow was supposedly the phallus of the male god which descended into the kingdom of the womb, the queen or goddess. The union was said to create immense divine powers."
[Texe Marrs, Mystery Mark of the New Age]
SEX IN THE CROSS AND THE CROWN
Most Christians would have no trouble accepting the Cross and the Crown symbol here. However, Freemasons have just a little bit more on their minds than this; they have a whole lot of sex on their brains.
In the Masonic Report, we make this discovery: Question: What does Masonry's emblem of the 'Cross and Crown' actually symbolize?" Answer:
"The 'Cross' of Freemasonry is a philosophical cross, according to Albert Pike, 'Morals and Dogma', p. 771. It is philosophical in the sense that it represents the generating fecundating principle by the perpendicular shaft [Phallus], and the matrix of womb of nature, the female producing principle [Female Vulva], by the horizontal shaft. The philosophy of the Masonic cross is totally phallic. The 'Crown' of this Masonic emblem is also phallic, it being the first emanation of the Cabalistic Sephiroth ..." [C.F. McQuaig, The Masonic Report, 1976]
"The 'Cross' of Freemasonry is a philosophical cross, according to Albert Pike, 'Morals and Dogma', p. 771. It is philosophical in the sense that it represents the generating fecundating principle by the perpendicular shaft [Phallus], and the matrix of womb of nature, the female producing principle [Female Vulva], by the horizontal shaft. The philosophy of the Masonic cross is totally phallic. The 'Crown' of this Masonic emblem is also phallic, it being the first emanation of the Cabalistic Sephiroth ..."
[C.F. McQuaig, The Masonic Report, 1976]
Masons have taken the Cross of Jesus and turned it into a phallic symbol. One side issue that this quote settles is that this official Masonic publication, printed in contemporary times, 1976, quotes Albert Pike as an authority. We have had many emails from Masons claiming that Albert Pike had been discredited by contemporary Masonry, and even some email suggesting that a "rogue" Albert Pike wrote Morals and Dogma and Magnum Opus.
We can now see that this is simply a lie designed to try to confuse.
"In fact, the respect paid by Freemasons to this number [#3] goes far to suggest that our mysteries have affinities not only with the Egyptian rites and ceremonies, but with those of a good many other nations." [John T. Lawrence, The Perfect Ashlar, 1912]
"In fact, the respect paid by Freemasons to this number [#3] goes far to suggest that our mysteries have affinities not only with the Egyptian rites and ceremonies, but with those of a good many other nations."
[John T. Lawrence, The Perfect Ashlar, 1912]
Return
