# John Dee and the Enochian System

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/crystal_tablet/tsrl11.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 11
John Dee and the Enochian System
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c) Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version
by TS permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
John Dee was court magician, astrologer, mathematician, and occasional spy for Queen Elizabeth I. At that time sorcerers were still subject to being burned at the stake for "dealings with the Devil"; hence Dee was quite careful to lace his magical writings with pro-Christian preambles. He was also a cipher expert, keeping many of his personal records in various forms of cryptical shorthand. In 1584 he wrote into his diaries a series of nineteen magical incantations, since known as the Angelical or Enochian Keys. These Keys were regarded as being of high potency for ritual operations by the Golden Dawn, the A.'.A.'., and the Church of Satan.
In the "Book of Coming Forth by Night" they are revealed as a corruption or approximation of the "Word of Set" (contained in "The Book of Coming Forth by Night: Analysis & Commentary"). 11A. "John Dee" by Richard Deacon. London: Frederick Muller Ltd, 1967. (TS- 3)
MA: "While other biographical studies of Dee have been written, none compares with this one for insight, clarity, and readability. An excellent introductory work. The author is particularly sensitive to Dee's linguistic skills and contributes many helpful research recommendations of his own." 11B. "John Dee: The World of an Elizabethan Magus" by Peter J. French. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd, 1972. (TS-4)
MA: "To date this remains the most sophisticated study of Dee and his philosophy, with detailed chapters on magic, science, religion, Hermetics, applied science, literature, and antiquarianism.
An exhaustive bibliography is appended. This book is not recommended for those not already familiar with the basic facts concerning Dee, and a grounding in Classical philosophy and metaphysics wouldn't hurt either." 11C. "John Dee" by Charlotte Fell Smith. London: Constable & Company Ltd, 1909. (TS-3)
MA: "This book is lighter on the philosophy and heavier on the biography than either #11A or #11B. Hence its greatest value is as a cross- reference to them. A good index to names and events is included, and the bibliographical appendix is helpful in classifying the various Dee-works which the researcher might encounter." 11D. "The Vision and The Voice" by Aleister Crowley. Dallas: Sangreal Foundation, 1972. (TS-4)
MA: "This book contains the record of Crowley's experiences with the thirty AEthyrs of the XIX Enochian Key. The visions are considered by many to be Crowley's most beautiful magical record.
This material is also included in both #9G and #9H, but this small edition has the advantage of detailed footnotes by Crowley, together with helpful annotations by F.I. Regardie." 11E. "John Dee's Actions With Spirits" by Meric. Casaubon. London: Askin Publishers, 1974 (originally published 1659). (TS-4)
MA: "A large, beautifully bound photofacsimile edition of Casaubon's transcript of the Dee diaries containing the original Keys. While not a completely accurate copy of the original diary material, this volume was far more authoritative than the corruptions progressively introduced by the Golden Dawn, A.'.A.'., and Church of Satan. This edition originally sold for $100-$150, as did a similar, leatherbound edition which followed a year or so later. Unless you are a book collector per se, #11H is a more useful acquisition. Introduction to #11E by Stephen Skinner. [Note: The Casaubon Keys are reproduced in "Scroll of Set" #I-11.]" 11F. "The Complete Enochian Dictionary" by Donald C. Laycock. London: Askin Publishers, 1978. (TS-4)
MA: "In addition to containing a comprehensive English-Enochian and Enochian-English dictionary, this volume includes a scholarly history and analysis of Dee's Enochian system and Laycock's edited version of the Keys from Dee's original manuscript.
Comparison of Laycock's version with the Temple of Set's microfilm copies of the original Dee diaries, however, reveals that Laycock arbitrarily subdivided parts of the Enochian text and added English-based punctuation. [Setian Gregory Anderson reports that 'Laycock' is in fact a pseudonym of Francis I. Regardie, who didn't use his own name because he was dissatisfied with the book. Anderson also notes the existence of an Enochian dictionary entitled "GMICALZOMA!" by Leo Vincy, available through some British outlets. 'Leo Vincey' - a hero in Haggard's "She" novels - was a pseudonym occasionally employed by Aleister Crowley, who included some Enochian-jargon incantations in an edition of "The Goetia".] Until the appearance of #11H, the only verbatim printed copy of the original Dee Keys readily available to Setians was/is in "The Book of Coming Forth by Night: Analysis & Commentary" together with the "Word of Set" translation." 11G. "John Dee on Astronomy" by Wayne Shumaker (Ed.). Berkeley: University of California Press, 1978. (TS-4)
MA: "This book is the 'missing link' between the metaphysics of Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle and Dee's otherwise-seemingly fantastic magical Workings. It is also the key to Dee's enigmatic 'hieroglyphic monad'.
You will need to have a basic grounding in higher mathematics, astronomy, and geometry before this book will reveal its essence to you, however. Shumacher is a Professor of English at the University of California and is also author of #3J." 11H. "The Enochian Evocation of Dr. John Dee" by Geoffrey James (Ed./Trans.). Gillette, NJ: Heptangle Books, 1984. (TS-4)
MA: "At long last - The original Dee diary Keys assembled with a large selection of Dee's related spells, all carefully footnoted and annotated to the original Sloane, Cotton, Bodeleian, Ashmolean, etc. documents. James is familiar with and critiques as appropriate the various approaches in such works as #11B/D/F. Since this is a book consisting solely of annotated magical text, it will not be readily intelligible to readers who have not obtained a biographical and exoteric understanding of Dee through other sources. A top- quality clothbound volume, well worth the $40 pricetag for serious students of Dee."
