# Lilith, Inanna and Hillary

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/the_experiment/experiment_lilith.htm

by Peter R. Farley
extracted from "The True Nature of Planet Earth"
from 4ThruthSeekers Website
...If we take a look back at the various entities involved with the whole puzzle surrounding Jesus and the different bloodlines, only one significant person remains to whom we have paid little or no attention. Neither have we found out any more about her beyond what the Bible says - until now.
That person is James the Justs wife, Mary Magdalens sister, Jesus sister-in-law, Martha. Josephs marriage to Martha, the Magdalens sister and the sister-in-law of Jesus, produced four children, three boys and a girl, all of whom later married, helping spread the royal Davidic bloodline of their father - and also the bloodline of Lucifer.
What is it that is so important about Martha that she would be included in these paintings and given a title such as shepherdess, unless, like the Magdalen herself she was critical to the entire process and someone important in her own right.
Again, Lindsey channels the Spiritual Hierarchy for an answer:
Martha was integrated into this entire process because she was a high initiate in the dark side of the esoteric arts. She was directly related to the Anunnaki. She had within her the knowledge of sacred alignments and geometry. In her past incarnations and throughout this entire process she has been that being known as Lilith. Her role was and is to perpetuate her own bloodline and at some point bring the Luciferian and Anunnaki bloodlines together. She is on the planet today as Hillary Clinton. Her role here now is to bring the bloodlines together. Chelsea Clinton, then, is the grail child - the one who has the blood of both lines from the Anunnaki and from the royal Davidic bloodline of Jesus and James. Hillary has to do with Tori [see chapter 9] because she knew Hillary [Lilith] in a past life. Those who want to merge the two bloodlines are the Anunnaki because it would tie them directly into Lucifer. Hillary was also Catherine de Medici [married to Henry of France].
Martha was integrated into this entire process because she was a high initiate in the dark side of the esoteric arts. She was directly related to the Anunnaki.
She had within her the knowledge of sacred alignments and geometry. In her past incarnations and throughout this entire process she has been that being known as Lilith. Her role was and is to perpetuate her own bloodline and at some point bring the Luciferian and Anunnaki bloodlines together.
She is on the planet today as Hillary Clinton. Her role here now is to bring the bloodlines together. Chelsea Clinton, then, is the grail child - the one who has the blood of both lines from the Anunnaki and from the royal Davidic bloodline of Jesus and James.
Hillary has to do with Tori [see chapter 9] because she knew Hillary [Lilith] in a past life. Those who want to merge the two bloodlines are the Anunnaki because it would tie them directly into Lucifer. Hillary was also Catherine de Medici [married to Henry of France].
Following up on this very surprising information we could not believe how well it corroborated with what we then were to come across online.
Caterina di Lorenzo de Medici (1519 - 1589), was queen of France, wife of one Valois king and mother of three. Born in Florence, Italy, she was a daughter of Lorenzo II de Medici and a French princess, Madeleine de la Tour dAuvergne.
Having lost both her parents at an early age, Catherine was sent to a convent to be educated; she was only fourteen when she was married (1533), at Marseilles, to the duke of Orléans, who would later become King Henry II of France.
It was her uncle, Pope Clement VII, who arranged that marriage with Henrys father Francis I of France. Faced with the possible extinction of the royal house of Francis, it was Catherine who was obligated to produce children, and Francis lived long enough to see his grandchildren before he died.
During the reign of her husband (1547-1559), Catherine lived a quiet and passive life but observed what was going on. Henry being completely under the influence of his mistress, Diane de Poitiers, Catherine had little authority.
In 1552, when the king left the kingdom for the campaign of Metz, she was nominated regent, but with very limited powers. This continued even after the accession of her sickly son Francis II of France at age 15.
His wife, Mary, Queen of Scots, little disposed to meddle with politics on her own account, was managed by her uncles, the cardinal of Lorraine and the duke of Guise. The queen-mother, however, soon grew weary of the domination of the Guises, and entered upon a course of secret opposition, manipulating the key alignments of royal marriages in and around Europe for a long time to come.
[Catherine unwittingly had vast influence on fashions for more than 350 years when she enforced a ban on thick waists at court attendance during the 1550s. For nearly 350 years, womens primary means of support then was the corset, with laces and stays made of whalebone or metal.]
On the death of Francis, Catherine became regent during the minority of her second son, Charles IX of France, and found before her a career worthy of the most soaring ambition.
She was then forty-one years old, but, although she was the mother of nine children, she was still vigorous and active. She retained her influence for more than twenty years in the troubled period of the French Wars of Religion. She was zealous in the interests of her children, especially of her favorite third son, the duke of Anjou [a key figure in the whole Rennes-le-Chateau mystery].
The Medici family of Florence itself, can be traced back to the end of the 12th century. It was part of the patrician class, not the nobility, and through much of its history the family was seen as the friends of the common people. They achieved their great wealth and influence through banking and commerce during the 13th century at the same time when the Templars were also gaining power, wealth and influence throughout Europe in the creation of these very same fields.
Political influence came along with their wealth.
One ancestor of Catherines, Cosimo (1389-1464), amassed the largest library in Europe, brought in many Greek sources, including the works of Plato, from Constantinople, founded the Platonic Academy and patronized Marsilio Ficino, who later issued the first Latin edition of the collected works of Plato [coincides nicely with the Hierarchys mention of her knowledge of sacred geometry.
We tend to gravitate to things we have been involved with in past lives as well, and as an Anunnaki leader, geometry and the sacred grid would have been a part of her understanding already].
The Medici family dominated Florentine politics for two and a half centuries and presided over a cultural achievement that is equaled only by Athens in the golden age. The family also got its genes mixed with those of most royal families in Europe.
Medici women included,
Catherine (1519-1589) who married Henry II, King of France and ruled the country after her husbands death Maria (1573-1642) married Henry IV, King of France Marias daughters became queens of Spain and England Cosimo IIs wife, Maria Magdalena, was the sister of Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor
Catherine (1519-1589) who married Henry II, King of France and ruled the country after her husbands death
Maria (1573-1642) married Henry IV, King of France
Marias daughters became queens of Spain and England
Cosimo IIs wife, Maria Magdalena, was the sister of Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor
The Medici Coat of Arms, unusual for its time, is symbolic of the Kabbalistic Tree of Life.
What is especially interesting about Catherines chateau, Chenonceau Chateau, is that it is the only chateau also built as a bridge [symbolic of her role in bridging the two bloodlines, and also bridging heaven and Earth]. It is also the most visited chateau.
The Chateau was also designed by women. Catherine as queen, lived in another chateau while the kings mistress lived at Chenonceau. When the king died, Catherine removed the mistress from the chateau and moved in. Catherine was a very unhappy person and wanted to decorate in black.
Her third floor bedroom is painted black, and the bedroom is still the only part of the chateau which has been left painted so dark.
The Black Mass was apparently invented by Catherine de Medici and practiced as a kind of bizarre party gag in the court of Louis XIV, but things degenerated and culminated in the horrific Affair of the Poisons.
The Black Mass is a parody of a Roman Catholic mass involving the worship of Satan, or the Devil. Accounts of the black mass come primarily from literature and legend.
They describe a number of rituals that generally contradict the message in a proper mass.
Participants may suspend a crucifix upside down, recite traditional prayers backward, perform a mock blessing with filthy water, use a naked woman as an altar, sacrifice animals, or perform a variety of bizarre sexual acts.
Hillary Clinton fits the role of Catherine and Lilith to a T, and also explains the regard she is held in for her potential political power and influence on the political agenda here in the United States.
She certainly seemed to know exactly what she was doing when she chose Bill to be her husband, as if the whole thing was planned to happen for her and her handlers higher agenda. From her own biographical website comes the description of how she met Bill Clinton after entering Yale Law School.
The former President often recalls how they met in the library when she strode up to him and said,
If youre going to keep staring at me, I might as well introduce myself.
The two were soon inseparable - partners in moot court, political campaigns, and matters of the heart.
She was elected United States Senator from New York on November 7, 2000. She is the first First Lady elected to the United States Senate and the first woman elected statewide in New York.
No words could better describe Liliths agenda than as First Lady of the reptilian bloodline, with her task to blend the two bloodlines involved, that of the Anunnaki of which she was supreme first lady, and the Luciferian bloodline of Jesus, of which William (Bill) Rockefeller Clinton was a leading member.
Although seemingly infertile for a long time, Catherine sought also to integrate the reptilian bloodline into the royal Merovingian bloodline of Jesus and the crowned heads of Europe [and later the United States] through her 9 children - a synchronicity in and of itself since she was once the birth goddess for the Anunnaki and would have access to fertility techniques not available to others.
Lilith, she of the night or the howler, said to be Adams first mate, had wings [symbolic of an ability to fly - in a craft as the Anunnaki were able to do] and was always portrayed with owls [described earlier in this volume as one of the chief symbols of the Illuminati and the reptilian bloodlines].
Lilith was said to have left Adam because he tried to dominate her [now theres an archetype for you]. In all likelihood, she too was one of Enkis experiments in genetic mixing.
The Black Madonna has her roots in this pre-patriarchal first partner of Adam, Lilith. She thus represents the strength and equality of womanhood - a proud, forthright, and commanding figure - as opposed to the strictly subordinate image of the conventional White Madonna as seen in church representations of Jesus mother.
It was said that Lilith knew the secret name of God [a secret held also by Mary Magdalene, the woman who knew the All] - in this case it would have been Lucifers original name Beel-zebub. She is black because in gnostic thought Wisdom (Sophia), is black, having existed in the darkness of Chaos before the Creation.
In ancient Sumer, the key females of the royal succession were all venerated as lilies, having such names as Lili, Luluwa, Lilith, Lilutu and Lillette.
The fleur-de-lis [the emblem of the House of Anjou, Catherine de Medicis son] was introduced in the late 5th century to denote the royal bloodline of France, later included in the Royal House of Scots along with the Davidic Lion of Judah and the Desposynic Unicorn. The Christine Unicorn, believed to be the only thing that could purify the false doctrines that flowed from the Roman Church, is often shown being chased, imprisoned, persecuted, or at least chained by one leg, often as a direct replication of Jesus.
While we may speak of Lilith as one of this beings incarnations, it would be more correct to say that is the name she was given in her role as Adams first partner.
Prior to this role we often know her by two other famous names as well, Inanna and Ishtar, here described in one of Sitchins earlier works:
Some of the principal deities, members of the sacred circle of Twelve, were themselves in a way Earthlings: Nanar/Sin and Ishkur/Adad, Enlils younger sons, were born on Earth; so were of course Sins twin children, Utu/Shamash and Inanna/Ishtar.
Inanna speaks of her role through Barbara Clow:
I was the first Nibiruan female to give birth to the child of an Earth father. In fact, at the time this was the only way to ensure that the children of Nibiru would remain on Earth. Their Earth fathers would force them to remain and build families. Unfortunately, though, this need also created the patriarchy. And the patriarchy would later destroy the very Goddess culture that had created it.
I was the first Nibiruan female to give birth to the child of an Earth father. In fact, at the time this was the only way to ensure that the children of Nibiru would remain on Earth.
Their Earth fathers would force them to remain and build families. Unfortunately, though, this need also created the patriarchy. And the patriarchy would later destroy the very Goddess culture that had created it.
Her subsequent role as shepherdess to her children here on Earth is further explained in the ancient Sumerian Tale of Etana where Etana, the strongman, was selected for the position of king after Ishtar was looking for a shepherd and searching high and low for a king in the rebuilding process after the Flood.
The one who was chosen "Shepherd" king was awarded the tools that would allow them to keep in contact with their masters the gods in the 4th dimension - the orb, the scepter, the crown, even the throne itself - all the trappings of royalty, all made of gold and all inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones such as diamonds and emeralds (such as the gods spoke through in an earlier chapter to lead their people), and lapis lazuli (the 4th dimensional stone) - all of which acted as crystal receivers for the gods commands from the higher dimension, as well as transmitters of the kings thoughts and those of his surrounding subjects in return.
Inana/Ishtar was also called Luluwa, described as a pure-bred Anunnaki princess, in the role of also being Cains wife.
This answers one of the greatest problems with the Biblical account of Adam, that is if Adam and Eve were the first man and woman, and Cain and Abel their first two sons, who was it then that Cain married to sire his children? Although not giving the name of Cains wife, the Bible does name their younger son Enoch (Henôch), while the Sumerian records cite his elder son and kingly successor Atûn, who is perhaps better known as King Etâna of Kish.
So, just as St. Paul came back to repeat his performance in a later life as Brigham Young to help control the religious aspects of control over the people, so too did the Anunnaki birth-goddess, Lilith keep on returning to help integrate the Anunnaki bloodline with that of the royal bloodline of Jesus-Lucifer.
In this regard one might think of he as indeed the shepherdess of the bloodline, but a little more still in being mother to the race of human slaves as it were. While not happy with her husband Adam, she did make a fertile producer of a race of Anunnaki/human children.
As the Hierarchy said through Lindsey,
Her role was and is to perpetuate her bloodline and at some point bring the Luciferian and Anunnaki bloodlines together... Those who want to merge the two bloodlines are the Anunnaki because it would tie them directly into Lucifer.
This also helps reinforce what Rayelan Allen wrote about Hillary Clintons part in shying Princess Diana away from potential husbands here in the United States:
Di had her eyes set on being the First Lady of America [uniting the two bloodlines]... Diana would be allowed to choose her new husband from three men that had been hand-picked for her. Each man represented a powerful New World Order family [the bloodline of Jesus]: Jay Rockefeller and George W. Bush represented their families respectively. The other candidate was Bill Clinton.
Di had her eyes set on being the First Lady of America [uniting the two bloodlines]... Diana would be allowed to choose her new husband from three men that had been hand-picked for her.
Each man represented a powerful New World Order family [the bloodline of Jesus]: Jay Rockefeller and George W. Bush represented their families respectively. The other candidate was Bill Clinton.
It is according to Allan that rumors had circulated in Arkansas since the time Bill Clintons mother was born that she was the illegitimate daughter of Winthrop Rockefeller [royal bloodline] but it was the Rothschilds [Anunnaki bloodline] who bought the hand of the Princess Diana and would marry her to a man of their choice.
On Tuesday, September 24, 1996, President Clinton was in New York signing the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. This meeting had been planned for months, and the President could not get out of it. Knowing this, Hillary made sure that Princess Diana was invited to the White House on that day. The White House meeting between Hillary and Diana was only two days after the sudden, swift and secret marriage of John F. Kennedy, Jr. to Caroline Bessette. Could Hillary have been afraid that now that JFK, Jr. was no longer available, Diana would settle for Bill? At the White House breakfast, Hillary told Diana something that made her leave the United States immediately. What could Hillary have told Diana that would have made her turn and run?... Whatever Hillary said to Diana at that September White House meeting, Diana left the United States and never returned.
On Tuesday, September 24, 1996, President Clinton was in New York signing the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.
This meeting had been planned for months, and the President could not get out of it. Knowing this, Hillary made sure that Princess Diana was invited to the White House on that day.
The White House meeting between Hillary and Diana was only two days after the sudden, swift and secret marriage of John F. Kennedy, Jr. to Caroline Bessette. Could Hillary have been afraid that now that JFK, Jr. was no longer available, Diana would settle for Bill?
At the White House breakfast, Hillary told Diana something that made her leave the United States immediately. What could Hillary have told Diana that would have made her turn and run?... Whatever Hillary said to Diana at that September White House meeting, Diana left the United States and never returned.
If this bears an uncanny resemblance to the Alien vs Predator movie where Mankind is trapped between two warring alien races, then perhaps we are not too far wrong, for alien they both are, and warring we are just beginning to find out.
What is it that made such painters as Poussin incorporate her image and her sadness into their geometrically precise paintings, even though in the end they were also keepers of her secret?
Christopher Cornford has pointed out that one of the most impressive confirmations of Poussins conscious manipulation of the geometrical structure of the painting lies in the significant placing of the centre of the controlling pentagram. It lies, with precision, upon the forehead of the shepherdess. He makes the comment that It suggests that the whole scene is somehow emanating from her meditative consciousness, or pivoting round it It is her mood of gentle sadness that dominates the picture. Now that the pentagonal structure has been found in the Rennes-le-Chateau landscape, the identifying of the central point is both logical and inevitable. It is also very easy to do. The attempt releases a new torrent of possibilities. (Lincoln)
Christopher Cornford has pointed out that one of the most impressive confirmations of Poussins conscious manipulation of the geometrical structure of the painting lies in the significant placing of the centre of the controlling pentagram.
It lies, with precision, upon the forehead of the shepherdess. He makes the comment that It suggests that the whole scene is somehow emanating from her meditative consciousness, or pivoting round it It is her mood of gentle sadness that dominates the picture.
Now that the pentagonal structure has been found in the Rennes-le-Chateau landscape, the identifying of the central point is both logical and inevitable. It is also very easy to do. The attempt releases a new torrent of possibilities.
(Lincoln)
Not possibilities, but like everything the New World Order does, a confusion of smoke and mirrors to have people chasing their own tails rather than understanding the true meaning behind the symbology and their relentless pursuit of power...
Return to Lilith
Return to Peter Farley
Return to Inanna - Ishtar - Lilith
Return to The New World Order
Return to The Occult Reptilian Saga
Return to The Clintons - America Politics
Return to Obama - A "New" Sociopolitical Era?
