# Look! Up in the Sky! It's a Bird... It's a Plane... It's a Raytheon Spy 
Blimp!

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_bigbrother06.htm

Known as RAID (Rapid Aerostat Initial Deployment) the system is
kitted-out with "electro-optic infrared, radar, flash and acoustic
detectors."
According to the firm, some 300 have been deployed in
Iraq and Afghanistan. The same military version, as
Newsweek reported and
Raytheon confirmed,
"demonstrated to officials concerned with
security and spectator safety its value by providing situational
awareness in what is billed as one of the largest sporting events of
the year."
Indeed Charles Burns, the director of Corporate Security for the
Indy Racing League said in the company's press release:
"Conducting
this demo with Raytheon gives us the opportunity to evaluate new and
innovative technology that keeps our venues safe and optimizes the
racing experience for our fans."
Along with a suite of sensors and high resolution video cameras,
RAID's digitized mapping tools are similar to those developed for
the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA).
In tandem with a preprogrammed mapping grid of the target location,
the system can scan a wide area and relay video clips to a
centralized command center.
Captured data known as GEOINT, or geospatial intelligence, is
"tailored for customer-specific solutions" according to NGA.
That
agency along with its "sister" organization, the National
Reconnaissance Office (NRO), the
super-secret agency that develops and flies America's fleet of spy
satellites are also among the most heavily-outsourced departments in
the so-called Intelligence Community.
As investigative journalist
Tim Shorrock points out in his essential
book,
Spies For
Hire, giant defense firms such as Raytheon and Northrop
Grumman,
"with assistance from Republican lawmakers from the House
Intelligence Committee," helped launch a lobby shop for the industry
in 2004, the United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF).
Self-described as a,
"not-for-profit educational foundation," USGIF
"is the only organization dedicated to promoting the geospatial
intelligence tradecraft and building a stronger community of
interest across industry, academia, government, professional
organizations and individual stakeholders."
Since its formation, USGIF has expanded to some 154 companies and state agencies and has
an annual budget that exceeds $1 million.
"Strategic
partners" include the usual suspects, corporate heavy-hitters
such as,
Additionally, niche companies
such as,
In this context, the public roll-out of RAID is all the more
pressing for securocrats and the companies they serve since Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano,
"plans to kill a program begun
by the Bush administration that would use U.S. spy satellites for
domestic security and law enforcement," the
Associated Press
reported June 22.
That program, the National Applications Office (NAO) was first
announced by the Bush regime in 2007 and was mired in controversy
from the get-go.
As Antifascist
Calling
reported last year, NAO would coordinate how domestic law
enforcement and "disaster relief" agencies such as FEMA utilize
GEOINT and imagery intelligence (IMINT) generated by U.S. spy
satellites.
But as with other
heimat
security schemes there was little in the way of oversight and zero
concern for the rights of the American people.
The intrusiveness of the program was so severe that even Rep.
Jane
Harman (D-CA), the author of the despicable "Violent Radicalization
and Homegrown Terrorism Prevention Act of 2007" (H.R. 1955) vowed to
pull the plug.
Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Committee's
Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment
subcommittee, Harman introduced legislation earlier this month that
would have shut down NAO immediately while prohibiting the agency
from spending money on NAO or similar programs.
When the bill was introduced, Harman told
Federal Computer Week:
"Imagine, for a moment, what it
would be like if one of these satellites were directed on your
neighborhood or home, a school or place of worship - and without an
adequate legal framework or operating procedures in place for
regulating their use.
I daresay the reaction might be that
Big
Brother has finally arrived and the black helicopters can't be far
behind. Yet this is precisely what the Department of Homeland
Security has done in standing up the benign-sounding National
Applications Office, or NAO."
According to the
Los Angeles Times, Napolitano reached a decision to cut
NAO off at the knees,
"after consulting with state and local law
enforcement officials and learning that they had far more pressing
priorities than using satellites to collect information and
eavesdrop on people."
Perhaps those "pressing priorities" could be better served by a
low-key approach, say the deployment of a system such as RAID? After
all, what's so threatening about a blimp?
It comes as no surprise then, that the next target for Raytheon
marketeers are precisely
local police departments and sports facilities,
"that want to keep an
eye on crowds that might easily morph into an unruly mob," as
Newsweek delicately put it.
Nathan Kennedy, Raytheon's project manager for the spy blimp told
the publication,
"large municipalities could find many uses for this
[technology] once we figure out how to get it in their hands."
While the company refuses to divulge what this intrusive system
might actually cost cash-strapped localities drastically cutting
social services for their citizens as America morphs into a failed
state, municipalities,
"without a Pentagon-size police budget" could
look at the airship's "potential to display ads [that] may assist
with financing."
Raytheon claims that local authorities fearful of succumbing to what
I'd call a dreaded,
"surveillance airship gap," could install "a
built-in LED screen to attract sponsors, generate revenue and defer
operating costs."
How convenient!
However, Raytheon's slimmed-down surveillance airship is a spin-off
from a larger Pentagon project.
Among other high-tech, privacy-killing tools currently under
development is the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency's (DARPA)
Integrated Sensor Is Structure (ISIS)
program.
As conceived by the agency, ISIS will be a high-altitude
autonomous airship built for the U.S. Air Force that can operate at
70,000 feet and stay aloft for a decade.
Washington Technology
reported April 29, that Lockheed Martin won a $400 million deal
to design the system. "Under the contract" the publication revealed,
"Lockheed Martin will provide systems integration services, and
Raytheon Co. will furnish a high-energy, low-power density radar,
Lockheed Martin officials said."
Operating six miles above the earth's surface, well out of range of
surface-to-air missiles, the airship will be some 450 feet long,
powered by hydrogen fuel cells and packed with electronic
surveillance gear and radar currently being field-tested by
Raytheon.
Projects such as ISIS reflect a shift in Pentagon planning and
spending priorities.
Under Bush regime holdover, Defense Secretary
Robert Gates, the military plans to leverage America's technological
advantage to improve intelligence and surveillance capabilities at
the expense of over-inflated big ticket items such as the F-22
Raptor or new Navy destroyers.
Gates and others in the Pentagon believe a shift towards "robust ISR
platforms" will better facilitate the Pentagon's new paradigm:
-
waging multiple, counterinsurgency wars of conquest to secure
natural resources
-
strategic advantage vis-à-vis
imperialism's geopolitical rivals
But military might and technological preeminence, however
formidable, represented by the Pentagon's quixotic quest for total
"situational awareness" promised by platforms such as ISIS and RAID,
will no more ameliorate the Empire's extreme political weakness than
putting a band-aid over a gangrenous lesion changes the outcome for
a dying patient.
