# Microwave Mind Control - UK Intelligence Forces And Microwave Mind 
Control

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_mindcon10.htm

by Tim Rifat
from Whale Website
As a scientist researching into microwave weapons used on the general public, evidence that the GM900 microwave network as used by Vodaphone and British Telecom, is a major health hazard, has come to my attention.
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) documents entitled: Biological Effects Of Electromagnetic Radiation (Radiowaves and Microwaves) Eurasian Communist Countries, show that microwave frequencies similar to those of the cellular phones can cause health problems in the following areas:
Blood Cardiovascular System Cells Central Nervous System Digestive System Glands Metabolism Reproduction Visual System Internal Sound Perception
Blood
Cardiovascular System
Cells
Central Nervous System
Digestive System
Glands
Metabolism
Reproduction
Visual System
Internal Sound Perception
Equipment to test the frequency and intensity of microwave phones shows that they produce signals similar to microwave ovens.
Two Vodaphone cellular phones were producing 100mW/cm2 and 50 mW/cm2 respectively. The danger level for microwave ovens is 5mW/cm2 and the Russians regularly used 10 mW/cm2 for weapon research. These Vodaphones will therefore cause significant health problems if used. A variety of cell phones can be tested to see how dangerous they are. The GM1800 system used by Orange uses higher frequency microwaves. Australian scientists found this caused cancer in mice exposed to radiation of this type. The documents in my possession show that microwaves pass deeply into the body and can have a negative effect on the brain and body. The DIA research dates from 1976 and shows the dangers were known about over twenty years ago. The Soviets used the frequencies and intensities used by mobile phones, 1800 MHz and 900 MHz, as weapons. It is a rule of the intelligence community that you hide things in plain view, getting the public to accept microwave mind control weapons which effect their behavior under the guise of mobile phones was a stroke of genius.
Getting the public to pay for these microwave mind control devices, so their brains and behavior can be damaged, to make them more docile and easy to control, was pure diabolical genius.
UK INTELLIGENCE FORCES AND MICROWAVE MIND CONTROL Microwave weapons that turn people into stressed, confused, submissive zombies are being used in Britains inner cities.
Developed by the communists, microwave weapons similar to microwave ovens have since the 1980s, been targeted on inner city council estates. These weapons transmit extremely low frequency (ELF) signals which mimic natural brain waves; at the flick of a switch, all the people around these microwave transmitters are turned into submissive zombies who cannot think clearly, become depressed, apathetic and want to lounge around all day doing nothing: the inner city malaise found on Britains streets. With the advent of new ELF detectors designed by the authors research teams, the mass mind control of the metropolitan UK population can be proved.
ELF signals are officially only found at nuclear submarine communication stations, so the researchers were shocked to find microwave and UHF, mind control signals in city centers, the authors flat, being sent through mobile phones, the BT telephones and from the numerous transmitters that dot the country. The massive increase in mobile phones has enabled the UK security forces to use this network of transmitters to beam mind control signals into the brains of anyone living near these transmitters. Microwave phones use pulse modulated microwaves of the correct intensity to pass through the skull into the brain and control behaviour. Microwave transmitters are therefore the perfect medium for the transmission of ELF signals to mind control the UK population. Researchers are of the opinion that the inner city riots of the early eighties forced the Thatcher regime to deploy ELF mind control devices developed in the 1970s to turn the working class housing estates into total policing zones. In these zones, ELF transmitters turned the inhabitants into docile zombies. So successful was this technology that it was expanded to cover all major towns.
Mass mind control of the UK public to make them submissive and obey authority was expanded, hand-in-hand with the mobile phone network and military and police microwave transmitters. Now the entire London conurbation is covered by UHF and microwave carrying mind numbing ELF. Research into the use of microwave weapons and their use for mind control began in 1950s at the Tavistock Institute, one of Britains leading psychiatric research establishments. The UK institute was researching into ways of mind controlling the British population without them knowing. The monkey submission response, whereby the dominant monkey caused submissive behaviour in the underlings, was the brain state of most interest to the British scientists.
Having found this specific brain rhythm for docile submissive, zombie-like behaviour, it was then recorded and used as the template for the ELF signal beamed on UK microwave transmitters. Britain was the first discoverer of microwave technology, used for radar, in the 1940s and therefore had a commanding lead over everyone else in this field. The 1970s brought a darker side to the story, with the news that the Russians were microwaving the US embassy in Moscow. One third of the staff eventually died of cancer from this microwave irradiation. Australian scientists proved in 1997, that tiny amounts of microwave produced by the very safest mobile phones, cause cancer in mice, when exposed to this radiation.
Greenham Common was the first time that the Ministry of Defense was involved in the offensive microwaving of women protesters, the so called Greenham Common Women. This event showed that the UK security forces were willing to use lethal doses of microwave radiation on large groups of the general public.
Equipment showed that the women peace protesters were subject to high levels of microwave radiation, some of them have subsequently died from cancer. Northern Ireland would have been a perfect proving ground for mass mind control technology.
Research at the Tavistock Institute enabled the Thatcher government to put into large scale use, the frequency which causes submission in humans.
Radiating this ELF frequency on,
microwave transmitters cellphones BT phones and by use of other transmitters,
microwave transmitters
cellphones
BT phones
and by use of other transmitters,
...the inner city population can be behaviorally controlled.
My research group have ELF detectors, which can prove all manner of UK transmitters are being used to mind control the population. Since ELF is not found naturally, and is only used for nuclear submarine communication, its presence proves mind control weapons are being used on the general public. The author also has access to scientific documents showing the devastating effects of ELF broadcast by microwave, UHF and VHF on humans. It is alleged that Marconi put this microwave technology into full scale production, and around thirty scientists and military personnel on the project who began to ask questions committed `suicide under mysterious circumstances. My research has found that microwave weapons are targeted on middle class troublemakers and researchers who cause problems for the establishment. Russian and American research has found that pulse modulated microwaves (as used for mobile phones) can, when modulated with ELF which mimics specific brain patterns change the behavior of the victim at the flick of a switch. It has been found that UK security police, such as MI5 use the 450 MHz frequency used for this research (legally allowed to be used by the police) for behavioral control.
A vast catalogue of mind control frequencies in the MHz range, FM radio, TV and mobile phone frequencies, have been measured, which are used in the UK for mind control and killing or disabling victims: 147, 153, 197, 199, 447, 453, 456, 466, 853, 883, 884, 887...
Symptoms can be depression, befuddled thinking, loss of memory, stress, not being able to cope, manic behavior, schizophrenia, nervous breakdowns, physical collapse, brain and nervous system damage, heart attacks, cancer... An example was Brighton police van, parked outside the Brighton Pavilion which was used to beam UHF and microwaves at vagrants to clear them from the area. All Brightons city centres are bombarded with microwaves when vagrants congregate to make them so ill they have to flee. The Evening Argus newspaper asked the police if the white van which was parked in the Brighton Pavilion grounds for months, was their van, they replied it was one of their surveillance vehicles.
On Wednesday, 4th of February the author was passing Brighton Police station with a frequency counter which detects microwave weapons, and I detected a 452 MHz microwave beam being directed at two young offenders sitting on a wall opposite the station.
I confronted the police with the reading, Robert Galloway, spokesperson for the police stated,
"they were not interested in microwaves even if they were a danger to health."
The author has uncovered widespread use of microwave weapons in Brighton by the police and MI5 as a test programme to clear vagrants from the city centre. Contacting researchers in this field of enquiry, they all complain of microwave-like symptoms, headache, nausea, giddiness, eye damage, ear problems... Readings I have taken show that the 750-1000 MHz range is used by the intelligence services for inducing nervous and physical collapse. Microwave ovens give off 1000 MHz. On the Channel 4 programme, For the Love of New World Order, shown on Monday night at 12pm, on April 6th, the author revealed some of these facts on television. The presenter, and researchers of this programme complained of severe headaches in the days preceding filming symptomatic of microwave attack.
As the foremost non-military expert microwave weapons, remote viewing (psychic spying) and Psi-warfare, the author became aware of the microwave problem when he was targeted to stop his forthcoming book on remote viewing being released. This book on psychic spying, published by Century Books, is the first book by a scientist on the subject of Psi-warfare and the techniques the superpowers developed. Subsequent to the filming of the Channel 4 programme, he was arrested by Brighton Police on February 15th outside their building and his frequency counter was confiscated to stop him recording the use of microwave weapons around the police station and in public places around the town. Even though no law was broken. It appears Brighton Police are worried that their use of microwave weapons on Brightons vagrants is coming to light.
The UK government has also bought up all the readily available frequency counters, these being the Watson FC-128 frequency counters, and the Optotronic devices, and the manufacturers now market a modified model, which most probably has a digital filter so that the microwave weapon frequencies given above, cannot be shown.
The authors frequency counter has still not been returned. With such high-level manipulation of events it seems that microwave mind control is part of a secret policy which is being practiced on the general public in this county. As part of a covert government policy of harassing and disabling critics, this means of attack is not covered by the law and highly deniable, the perfect intelligence device for civilian control.
The authors flat is targeted with a 900 MHz beam which seems to be designed to cause massive neurological damage and produce tumours. The BT phone network has the potential to be used for docilisation of the UK public. A 30-40 MHz signal is carried by the phone. When the earpiece is placed against the head, bone conduction carries the ELF component into the brain of the phone user. A ELF signal which can effect behaviour or health is therefore passed into all BT phone users.
It appears from experts I have consulted on the subject that the digital phones have been designed to carry this mind control carrier frequency. Vodaphone have supplied a mobile phone to a friend of mine that pumps out an 847 MHz signal at over 100 mW/cm2, this is equivalent to 4x100 watt lightbulbs being turned on in the body of the user. This means that mobile phones can potentially be used to kill or so disable a person they no longer become a problem to the establishment. Another Vodaphone tested pumped out 50 mW/cm2.
UK safe levels for microwave ovens are 5 mW/cm2 - which are not held near the head. There are reports by military researchers that 1 mW/cm2 will cause swelling of nerve cells exposed to microwave. It is obvious that a total policing of the population by means of UHF, VHF, and microwave EM radiation, amongst others, is being used to keep the UK population in a docile and submissive mental state. Mental confusion can also be added to the signal for working class inner city areas to keep them docile and confused. A land of stultified zombies, who are mind controlled to make them docile and unable to think clearly. Subversives are habitually targeted with microwaves to drive them mad or make them fatally ill On July 4th 1976 seven giant transmitters in the Ukraine, powered by the Chernobyl nuclear facility, pumped a 100 megawatt radio frequency at the West, which contained a 10 Hz ELF mind control frequency.
According to a US scientist, Dr. Andrija Puharich, MD, the soviet pulses covered the human brain frequencies. With a Dr. Bob Beck Andrija proved that the Soviet transmissions were a weapon.
He found that a 6.66 Hz frequency would cause depression and an 11 Hz signal would cause manic and riotous behaviour. transmissions could indeed entrain the human brain, and thereby induce behavioural modification populations can be mind controlled en masse by ELF transmissions. More importantly he found that an ELF signal could cause cancer at the flick of a switch.
It did this by modifying the function of the RNA transferases so that amino acid sequences are scrambled and produce unnatural proteins.
MIND CONTROL Torture is alive and well in the UK. MI5, the UKs secret police, regularly use Non-Lethal Weapons on any dissidents.
Since MI5 have a well documented history of hating the Labour Party, and were instrumental in bringing down the Labour Prime Minister Harold Wilson, they naturally took to spying on, and discrediting, any group or person who did not follow their rabid right wing dogma. When Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister of a right wing Conservative Government in 1979, she soon saw the power in recruiting MI5 to be her own secret police.
During the Miners strike in the early eighties, Arthur Scargill and his National Union of Miners nearly brought the Conservative Government down, with their year long strike.
Margaret Thatcher used MI5 to spy on the Miners and to discredit Arthur Scargill. Leading police officers argued against the use of MI5 on the civilian population, they were ignored or replaced - if they proved too vociferous. Margaret Thatcher was the first Prime Minister for many a year to sit in on the Joint Intelligence Committees meetings on a regular basis. Thatcher, as a trained scientist, would have been well aware of the usefulness of microwave weapons. They are impossible to detect unless you have a detector, dissidents have no idea these weapons exist, and best of all, they are totally deniable. It may be that MI5 kept this research secret from Margaret Thatcher, but the resources the UK has put into these fearsome, so-called non-lethal weapons, is extensive.
UK intelligence runs a fleet of microwave weapon carrying vans, as well as portable microwave weapons that can be deployed near the dissidents home.
The vast expense can be disguised as communications equipment, for as we all know, microwave telephone communication is all the rage in our modern world. My research shows that the microwave telephone network also has the potential to be used as a major mind control weapon system to control the behaviour of the microwave phone users. Developed under the Conservative government, which was in power from 1979-97. The UK secret, or black government, has at its disposal a fearsome array of mind control weapons. These abhorrent devices are euphemistically called non-lethal weapons by the UK military.
In fact they kill you slowly by causing:
nerve damage cancers mental collapse leading to suicides tissue failure, such as heart attacks due to the cooking effect of microwaves
nerve damage
cancers
mental collapse leading to suicides
tissue failure, such as heart attacks due to the cooking effect of microwaves
Precisely modulated microwave radiation is used to influence brain function.
Human behaviour and reactions can be entirely controlled by using pulse modulated microwave EM radiation.
Human behaviour and reactions can be entirely controlled
by using pulse modulated microwave EM radiation.
Pulse modulated microwaves are useful as the carrier for the mind control signals as they are able to pass through the skull, which is rather resistant to low level EM.
The massive number of microwave antennae that dot the country, some of which are used for the microwave phone network, all use pulse modulated microwaves, which makes their use for a strategic mind control device against the civilian population in times of trouble, or rioting, crucial to modifying the behaviour of the general population. In modern democracies it is no longer viable to shoot rioters, or torture dissidents by normal means, as the bad publicity is self defeating.
Thus, microwave weapons have been developed by the UKs military intelligence as they leave no marks, or gaping wounds. This pulse modulated microwave carrier beam can then be used to carry signals. These signals are extremely low frequency recordings of brain electrical potentials, which have been recorded by neuro-medical researchers such as Dr Ross Adey. Dr Ross Adeys research at the Brain Research Institute of the University of California, was funded by the CIA. In their Pandora project a catalogue of different brain signals for specific actions, emotions and pathological states of mind were recorded. It was found that when microwaves were used to fire these signals at victims brains, they experienced the moods, behaviour, and the pathological states, carried by the signals.
This meant that by mimicking natural brain frequencies, the human brain could be controlled remotely by use of extremely low frequency broadcast carried by pulse modulated microwave beams (ELF pulse modulated microwave remote mind control technology). It is now possible to broadcast mind control commands directly into the brain by use of microwave beams. All that is needed is a catalogue of every specific brain frequency for each: mood, action and thought.
These catalogues of excitation potentials are available from Russian neuro-medical research institutes, so any one with enough cash can have the same technology at their disposal, as UK military mind control groups (the psychological-enforcement arm of MI5). The Aum sect bought microwave weaponry via their 50,000 Russian converts. Particular excitation potential, is then broadcast by pulse modulated microwave transmitter. This pulse modulated microwave beam has the ELF excitation potential frequency imprinted upon it. It was found that each behavioural set in humans had a distinctive frequency. There was one for: anger, suicide, hysteria, trauma, serial killing, paranoia, lust... etc. Intelligence operatives in the UK regularly park microwave transmitters outside targets houses and beam specific mood inducing excitation potentials at the victims.
To aid them, they have sophisticated millimeter wave scanners to look through the victims walls, so they can see the targets in their homes. Pulse modulated microwaves are regularly directed at the victims brains, while other people in their homes are oblivious of what is going on. A leading conspiracy researcher, who looks into GCHQ at Cheltenham, found one of these vans, with two spheres on its roof parked in his road. When he took the number plate and through contacts checked who owned it, he found it was an MOD van. Hopefully he has found the microwave weapon system before it has done him too much harm. These microwave weapons were developed allegedly at Marconi. When firing microwave beams through walls at one specific target, every material in the way of the microwave beam attenuates or modifies the intensity and frequency of the beam.
Since precise frequencies and intensities are needed for mind control, very sophisticated microwave arrays and computer programs had to be developed so that the microwave beam could be changed in response to the materials which lay between the target and the weapon, as the victim moved around the house. To do this, the reflectivity and refractivity of the materials between victim and weapon had to be analyzed in real-time and fed to a computer which could change the microwave array in concert with the changing environment between victim and weapon, as the target moved around his/her home.
Secondly, there had to be an automatic interrupter if another person walked in front of the beam. The victim needed to be driven mad or disabled, without anyone else being aware that he or she was being targeted.
The technology for this was very complex but eventually it was perfected. Twenty five or more scientists and military personnel, associated with the Marconi project, then died in mysterious circumstances. Intelligence personnel regularly kill people to keep them quiet. Maybe they killed the entire research team to keep such a diabolical weapon secret. For if it were made public, the scandal would bring down the government.
Whatever the real story, by the mid to late eighties, all the problems had been ironed out and these new smart microwave weapons were deployed on the UK s streets.
Northern Ireland would have proved the perfect place to test them out. Pulse modulated microwave weapons had now come of age. By this method, any mood or behavioural set, can be conditioned into the targets brain. Intelligence agents keep a log of the victims behaviour to see if more intense treatment is needed and as a guide for future mind control projects. It is alleged that by this method, UFO and conspiracy researchers, are routinely driven to commit suicide. having the excitation potential for suicide beamed into your brain day and night by microwave mind control weapons, soon resets the brain into a cycle of depression that spirals out of control ending in suicide.
Many intelligence and technical officers in the UK, who have spilled the beans, or could be a potential leak, are driven to commit suicide by the special mind control teams run by MI5. If you look at the long list of UK military and intelligence experts who inexplicably commit suicide, one can see an underlying mind control logic that drives them to kill themselves. Behavioural reinforcement is used in a synergistic way with the mind control. It was found that the effect of the microwave beams could be greatly enhanced by external reinforcement.
Intelligence community personnel destroy the targets property, ruin their financial affairs spread vicious rumour, make sexual peccadilloes public knowledge - such as wearing womens underwear, while checking oneself - with an orange in ones mouth. External reinforcement of pulse modulated microwave mind control technology was found to be very effective. Intelligence chiefs are now in seventh heaven; if some one becomes a problem they get the suicide mind control team parked outside their house.
Within weeks, the victim kills himself. This is very pleasing to the intelligence mandarins, as suicides are easy to explain away - even if the victim was a highly placed politician or military man. If the military intelligence agency does not wish you to commit suicide, they can drive you mad. This is done by beaming the excitation potential of a particular pathological mental state at your brain while you are at home. To aid in this, the intelligence operatives can place sounds and speech in the target victims brain.
This inter cerebral hearing is used to drive the victim mad, as no one else can hear the voices transmitted into the brain of the target.
Transmission of auditory data directly into the targets brains using microwave carrier beams is now common practice. Instead of using excitation potentials, one uses a transducer to modify the spoken word into ELF audiograms, that are then superimposed on the pulse modulated microwave beam. Discrediting well known people who are causing problems for the shadowy elite, by driving them mad, seems to be standard operating procedure for the intelligence community. Victims are subject to pulse modulated microwaves which carry different types of madness and behavioral aberrations, encoded as ELF excitation potentials.
This makes the troublesome high profile person, display manic or insane behavior that discredits them.
Examples of this technique are allegedly: David Icke, Fergie, Princess Diana...
Outside environmental reinforcement, by use of media agents in league with MI5, makes it assured that the high profile persons mind controlled madness, will be put in the worst possible light to discredit them. In this way, high profile subversives who cannot be wrongly imprisoned (unlike the Carl Bridgewater prisoners, Birmingham Six, Guilford Four...) in the normal way by Britains police, or killed by assassination squads, such as the Pegasus group, are made to look ridiculous. Public humiliation is the finest weapon the authorities have, to make harmless, a potential well known figure, who is causing trouble. If the VIP needs to be made temporarily ill, microwave beams containing the signal the brain gives off during a vicious bout of flu can be fired at the victim. This causes the target to display all the symptoms of flu, even though they have not caught the virus. Major Ed Dames, the remote viewing specialist, who has close links with the US secret military, alluded to this device on a US TV program. The intelligence agents can also use low level microwaves to cause mental and physical confusion that leads to illness. Beaming microwaves at victims makes them fatigued, damages their immune system, causes neurological damage that effects their thinking, and ability to carry out tasks, induces premature ageing, cancer and cataracts.
Sussex Police regularly use this low level microwave to clear drunks from city centers.
While researching this matter, I was subject to high levels of microwave >10mW/cm2 whenever I approached their headquarters, whilst MI5 irradiated my home continually with microwaves. It seems that I touched a raw nerve while researching mind control weapon usage in the UK. Organizations that irritate the authorities have their building turned into a hot spot by microwave transmitters, so the staff all suffer sick building syndrome caused by microwave damage. Or the staff of the target organization have their behavior changed to cause discord. UFO Reality, a leading UFO and conspiracy magazine have complained of mysterious health problems, while another New Age group complained of eye damage, nausea and headaches brought on whenever they had a meeting, which may have been caused by microwaves. Heating the victim to death, by microwave cooking is caused by increasing the field intensity of the radiation, to cause local hot spots in the victims eyes and gall bladder, which have poor circulation, so cannot carry away the heat. Irradiating the optic nerve of the victim with the same signal that is sent to the brain by this nerve, causes the nerve tissue to overload. In this way, subversives can be blinded by the intelligence community without them knowing what has occurred. An American researcher complained of this problem to me and warned me that this weapon system was being used on my person by MI5. Neurological research has found that the brain has specific frequencies for each voluntary movement called preparatory sets. When you pick up an object, there is a specific preparatory set for this action.
By firing at your chest a microwave beam containing the ELF signals given off by the heart, this organ can be put into a chaotic state, the so called heart attack. In this way, high profile leaders of political parties, who are prone to heart attacks, can be killed off -before they cause any trouble.
Neil Kinnocks Labour government was allegedly cheated out of an election victory by postal vote rigging in twenty key marginal seats. When a new even more electable Labour leader was found, it is rumored that John Smith, the then Labour leader, was prompted to have a fatal heart attack, while walking in the country with his family, by means of a concealed microwave device which operated on the Vagus nerve to bring about a massive heart attack.
Since MI5 have a long history of naked hatred toward the Labour Party, there may be some truth in the above, though no hard evidence has yet been found. Paralysis can be induced in the target by use of this method of broadcasting preparatory sets encoded on microwave beams. A pulse modulated microwave beam, carrying an ELF signal, which is identical to the one in the motor neurone centre of the brain, is used to jam the victims motor co-ordination. This is analogous to radar jamming, using a more powerful signal at the same frequency to swamp out the enemys radar.
Motor neurone preparatory set potentials are jammed by a bigger signal carried by a microwave carrier beam, that literally overloads the brain, so it cannot control the body. Pulse modulated microwave weapons which broadcast the ELF preparatory sets of the motor cortex at the victim, will paralyze the victim without killing them. Breathing and heartbeat are involuntary actions controlled by another set of frequencies in another part of the brain. This technique can be used to abduct people for secret government mind control experiments, under the guise of alien abduction. A microwave beam of this nature will paralyze the victim, so they can be bundled into a black helicopter and airlifted away for experimentation. Once the procedure is complete, hypnosis can be used to plant false memories of alien abduction. In this way, real alien abductions can be used by the authorities to enable them to obtain a limitless supply of guinea pigs for their mind control experiments. Real memories of government involvement are erased electronically.
This technique clears all short-term memories from the victims consciousness by broadcasting microwave beams at the target which carry the signals used for memory retention. When you remember something, it is first stored in your short-term memory. After approximately twelve hours, this short-term memory is converted in the brain to long-term memory, after which you remember this information for the rest of your life.
If this conversion from short-term memory to long-term memory does not occur, the data is lost. We all see details around us, but try to recall the decor in a restaurant you ate at some weeks ago and you will see how tenuous memory is.
Microwave radiation of a specific frequency can interfere with the transfer of memories from short to long-term memory. Microwave radiation of a specific frequency can interfere with the synapses of the brain.
By interfering with the connections between brain cells, memory of people can be disrupted. In this way, Seal special forces assassins can be brain wiped after a mission, so they have no idea of the target they killed. Using hypnosis, false memories can then be planted in the brain, so the gap left by the real memory is papered over. The latest advance in electronic mind control were discussed in my previous articles in Nexus, but for those who missed the ESP of Espionage, this equipment uses special types of microwave beams called MASERs. These are the laser equivalent of microwave beams. These MASER beams have been used to develop something called synthetic telepathy. This is the ability to read peoples minds from a distance.
Electronic scanning of victims brains by monitoring the electromagnetic (EM) emissions from peoples brains and using amongst other things, the brain waves (as measured on an EEG), to read the victims subvocalised thoughts. Head of US Special Forces Major-General Schaknow, talked about synthetic telepathy during a lecture in July 1992 at Fort Bragg North Carolina. The US military is hard at work perfecting synthetic telepathy. In synthetic telepathy, the weak electromagnetic signals in the brain associated with subvocalised thought, are connected to a computer by use of electrodes, or in more advanced mechanisms by MASER beams. Sophisticated computer systems have learnt to read the subvocalised thoughts in the brain, by associating a specific brain excitation potential, with a particular word. In this case, only one specific language can be decoded, as each word in a language has a specific set of frequencies that must be discovered.
Once the donkey work of finding the specific frequencies for all the words in a language has been programmed into a super computer, which can carry out massive parallel processing, fuzzy logic software is used to match this with real world excitation potential associated with subvocalised thought obtained from thousands of abductees, who are used to calibrate the synthetic telepathy devices. GCHQ Cheltenham, the intelligence gathering arm of MI5, possess the advanced computer systems needed for synthetic telepathy. Synthetic telepathy detects the 15Hz, 5 milliwatt auditory cortex brain emissions, that are linked with the excitation potentials in the brain associated with subvocalised thought.
New technology, involving low frequency microwaves and RF, has enabled devices to be built which can scan through walls and look inside peoples bodies like X-rays. This enables security personnel to see a target in his own home and to track him throughout the house. Further to this, being able to see inside the victims head, would allow computer controlled targeting of specific brain centres in the victims brain, even when he was walking around the house. A scan of the specific brain emissions given off when the victim subvocalises using an array of pulsed frequency MASERs fired at the specific brain centres of the subversive, while he resides in his own home, enables the victim to be scanned. By firing an array of ELF pulse modulated MASERs, which scan up and down the window of frequency emissions given off by subvocalised thought, interference effects can be measured in the MASER beam.
The victims ELF brain emissions will interact constructively or destructively with the pulsed frequency MASER carrying ELF in the ELF window associated with subvocalised thoughts. If we fire an array of pulsed MASERs, which are out of phase with each other, extraneous noise can be filtered out in the digital domain.
Since the converging ELF modulated MASERs are being effected by the low level emissions in the victims brain, the shifts in the ELF pulsed signal going into the subversives brain can be detected.
A simplistic version of this would be the LASER beam shone at the window of the person that is being bugged. The vibrations in the window cause modulations in the LASER that can be converted into electrical signals and hence into sound. In this way the subvocalised thoughts in the victims brain can be read.
Having already built up a library of excitation potential signatures for differing words and groupings of words, a sophisticated computer can begin to decode the emission signatures into word streams. In this way the subvocalised thoughts of the victim can be stored in the memory of a supercomputer and analyzed to give a read out of what the target is thinking.. Using ELF audiograms carried by a single pulse-modulated Maser, subvocalised thoughts can be placed in the victims brain. This enables UK synthetic telepathy operators the ability to enter into conversations with the subversive to drive him mad or to bring up key words which will get the victim thinking about the information they wish to find.
Visual cortex excitation potentials can also be broadcast into the victims brain so that illusory images can be projected into their brain to drive them mad, or to program them to commit suicide. My research has led me to uncover a truly nation-wide mind control weapon system. Each UK police station is equipped with a vast array of microwave antennae. The Sussex Police headquarters has a two hundred foot antenna. The building is surrounded by a fence and is off limits to the public. This microwave complex sits in the middle of a council housing estate, which means the people in this area are being bathed in low level microwaves.
New research has shown that low level microwaves give mice cancer, since the emitters tested by the scientists, were the new ultra safe mobile phones which give of much smaller intensities than the police antennae, the Police microwave system is a serious health hazard. It seems that low level microwave radiation excites the hydrogen bonds in the cell and can interfere with meiosis.
This causes cell division to go wrong, which leads to cancerous cells and hence tumors. Secondly, the police have been granted the exclusive use of the 450 MHz microwave frequency range. This is exactly the frequency used by Dr Ross Adey, the CIA mind control expert, in his experiments on behavioral modification. It seems the police have the exclusive use of this mind control frequency and a vast array of antennae to broadcast this frequency all over the country.
Very useful for mass mind control in times of emergency.
Adey found that by using 0.75mW/cm2 intensity of pulse modulated microwave at a frequency of 450 MHz, it was discovered that an ELF modulation could be used to control all aspects of human behavior. The Sussex police headquarters is connected to CCTV, closed circuit television cameras throughout the town. Some of these cameras have microwave telemetry devices that could easily be used to broadcast this frequency.
The large antennae that bracket the town could also be used. The most insidious aspect of this, is that the entire mobile phone network could easily be used to control the behavior of the phone users. By use of my microwave detector, I have found that mobile phones of the newer type, give off a pulse modulated microwave signal of around 0.75mW/cm2 at the earpiece.
This may be coincidence, but it is exactly the intensity required form behavioral control as found by Dr Ross Adey, the pioneer of microwave mind control. So in theory, an ELF signal could be added to the microwave network to feed a precise behavioral pattern into every mobile phone user in the UK.
If their were widespread riots, the ability to broadcast behavioral stimuli to mollify all the mobile phone users in the country would prove useful. Since mobile phone users are generally middle class, it means authority has a useful method of controlling the behavior of the key voters. Microwave carrier beams are perfect for transmitting the excitation potential of docility to the phone user to keep them servile in times of trouble.
When no ELF signal is broadcast the phone acts in a completely different manner on behavior in humans. In this case the microwave phones causes the neurons to release calcium ions which makes the user tired irritable and when stresses likely to emotional outbursts such as road rage. In Brighton, the local MI5 headquarters has a large microwave array on its roof. Secret bunkers in the area also have large microwave arrays above them. It is childs play to transmit an ELF modulated signal to be broadcast by the entire mobile phone network - if need be. By this means the entire mobile phone users can be behaviorally modified. At the cost of developing cancer from low level microwave exposure from the phones they constantly use, stressing the neural network by constant calcium ion efflux and interference with bioelectric fields. It seems strange that a few milliCuries of ionizing radiation will get the National Radiological Protection Board excited, whilst high intensity cancer inducing non ionizing microwave radiation, goes unchecked.
So high are levels near transmitters, that litter the countryside, that light bulbs will explode near them. If the intelligence community is using microwaves on a large scale as mass mind control weapons, then the NRPBs silence is easily explainable.
To add to this, the numerous microwave detectors that were cheaply available to check leakage from microwave ovens are no longer made by any company in the country. It seems the UK authorities do not want the population to be able to detect when they are being microwave. In conclusion, it can be seen that the UK intelligence and police, have a dizzy array of high-tech mind control devices. They regularly target their own populations and thousands of people are made ill by microwave weapons. With the advent of synthetic telepathy, CCTV of the mind becomes a reality. With the election of a New Labour government unaware of microwave weapons and untainted, as they had no part in their development and deployment, it is certain that Tony Blairs government will outlaw these abhorrent microwave weapons - as they have done land mines.
The only problem will be convincing the Labour government that MI5s microwave communication equipment is in fact microwave mind control weaponry.
With the total secrecy the MI5 organization operates under, one can be sure they will be mendacious as to how their £200 million pound budget is used to hone their leading edge microwave mind control torture weapons that are used on the public.
Even more disturbing is the use of EMP and microwave weapons by the police on anyone researching into this area.
REFERENCES ELECTRONIC MlND CONTROL
[1] Non-Lethality: John B Alexander, the Pentagons Penguin, by Armen Victorian, Lobster June 1993. This is an excellent article on the US black governments hard-man of the mind control world -recommended for those who really would like to know how these people think and work.UFO Reality No 1-3, Jon King, Mind Control.Mind Control and UFOs, by Alex Constantine, Feb 1996. [2] UFO Reality No 4. [3] Enigma Vol 2, Its All In The Mind, T Rifat. [4] Ross W Adey: Neurophysiologic Effects of Radiofrequency and Microwave Radiation, Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, Vo1.55 No 1 1, Dec 1979; The Influences of Impressed Electrical Fields at EEG Frequencies on Brain and Behaviour, in Behaviour and Brain Electrical Activity, Burch, N and Altshuler, H.I., eds, Plenum press, 1975; Effects of Modulated Very High Frequency Fields on Specific Brain Rhythms in Cats, Brain Research, Vol 58, 1973; Spectral Analysis of Low Frequency Components in the Electrical Activity of the Hippocampus During Learning, Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, Vol 23, 1967. Dr Ross Adey, formally of the Brain Research centre at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, now at Loma Linda University Medical School, Loma Linda, California. He worked on the CIA Pandora Project and was concerned with inducing specific behaviour modification by electromagnetic means as well as induction of calcium efflux events to interfere with brain function - the so called confusion weaponry.C.S. Blackman is a researcher who worked in the US on theoretical research that underlies the electronic RMCT devices now deployed world-wide. Electronics World and Wireless World: The healing face of electromagnetic fields; 1993.[5]. Martin Cannon, The Controllers. [6]. Secret and Suppressed, Jim Keith. [7]. Psychic Dictatorship in the USA, Alex Constantine. [8]. Encounters, Vol 7, Psi Spies, Marie-Louise Small. Cosmic Top Secret: Americas Secret UFO Program,1992 William Hamilton III. [9] Encounters, Vol 10, Room with a Remote View, by Richard Forsyth. This is an article about the author. http//www.fastnet.co.uk/pms ; Paranormal Management Systems web site. For an information pack on RV/RI, send £3 plus a SAE to PMS, PO Box 2749, Brighton, BN2 2DR, UK. Correspondence and normal courses are available, phone 01273 690424 to book for courses. We also offer consultancy on mind control problems.Nexus Vol 3 No 6, Remote Viewing: The ESP of Espionage, by T Rifat. Nexus Vol 4 No 1 The Esp of Espionage, Part 1, by T Rifat. Nexus Vol 4 No 2, The Esp of Espionage, by T Rifat. These three articles cover the theory of RV, RI and ESP in very great detail. recommended for the serious RV/RI student. For more information contact the author.Alien Encounters No 1 1 Alien and Government Mind control, T Rifat. Sightings Nol2, Losing Your Mind! Mind control Technology, by T Rifat. UFO Reality No 8, Mind Control, Big Brother Is All In The Mind, T Rifat. Enigma 6, Mind Control, by T Rifat.Fortean Times 95, Police State of Mind, by David Guyatt. US Synthetic Telepathy info supplied by David Guyatt.Guyatt, David. "Some Aspects of Antipersonnel Electromagnetic Weapons" (paper prepared for ICRC Symposium for the medical profession.
[1] Non-Lethality: John B Alexander, the Pentagons Penguin, by Armen Victorian, Lobster June 1993. This is an excellent article on the US black governments hard-man of the mind control world -recommended for those who really would like to know how these people think and work.UFO Reality No 1-3, Jon King, Mind Control.Mind Control and UFOs, by Alex Constantine, Feb 1996. [2] UFO Reality No 4. [3] Enigma Vol 2, Its All In The Mind, T Rifat. [4] Ross W Adey: Neurophysiologic Effects of Radiofrequency and Microwave Radiation, Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, Vo1.55 No 1 1, Dec 1979; The Influences of Impressed Electrical Fields at EEG Frequencies on Brain and Behaviour, in Behaviour and Brain Electrical Activity, Burch, N and Altshuler, H.I., eds, Plenum press, 1975; Effects of Modulated Very High Frequency Fields on Specific Brain Rhythms in Cats, Brain Research, Vol 58, 1973; Spectral Analysis of Low Frequency Components in the Electrical Activity of the Hippocampus During Learning, Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, Vol 23, 1967. Dr Ross Adey, formally of the Brain Research centre at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, now at Loma Linda University Medical School, Loma Linda, California. He worked on the CIA Pandora Project and was concerned with inducing specific behaviour modification by electromagnetic means as well as induction of calcium efflux events to interfere with brain function - the so called confusion weaponry.C.S. Blackman is a researcher who worked in the US on theoretical research that underlies the electronic RMCT devices now deployed world-wide.
Electronics World and Wireless World: The healing face of electromagnetic fields; 1993.[5]. Martin Cannon, The Controllers. [6]. Secret and Suppressed, Jim Keith. [7]. Psychic Dictatorship in the USA, Alex Constantine. [8]. Encounters, Vol 7, Psi Spies, Marie-Louise Small. Cosmic Top Secret: Americas Secret UFO Program,1992 William Hamilton III. [9] Encounters, Vol 10, Room with a Remote View, by Richard Forsyth. This is an article about the author. http//www.fastnet.co.uk/pms ; Paranormal Management Systems web site. For an information pack on RV/RI, send £3 plus a SAE to PMS, PO Box 2749, Brighton, BN2 2DR, UK. Correspondence and normal courses are available, phone 01273 690424 to book for courses. We also offer consultancy on mind control problems.Nexus Vol 3 No 6, Remote Viewing: The ESP of Espionage, by T Rifat. Nexus Vol 4 No 1 The Esp of Espionage, Part 1, by T Rifat. Nexus Vol 4 No 2, The Esp of Espionage, by T Rifat. These three articles cover the theory of RV, RI and ESP in very great detail. recommended for the serious RV/RI student. For more information contact the author.Alien Encounters No 1 1 Alien and Government Mind control, T Rifat. Sightings Nol2, Losing Your Mind! Mind control Technology, by T Rifat. UFO Reality No 8, Mind Control, Big Brother Is All In The Mind, T Rifat. Enigma 6, Mind Control, by T Rifat.Fortean Times 95, Police State of Mind, by David Guyatt. US Synthetic Telepathy info supplied by David Guyatt.Guyatt, David. "Some Aspects of Antipersonnel Electromagnetic Weapons" (paper prepared for ICRC Symposium for the medical profession.
Return to Tim Rifat
Return to Mind Control
Return to Cell Phones - Microwave Radiation
