# Mont Pelerin, Ford Foundation and Tavistock

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/world_order/WorldCh07-4.htm

The present star of the Hoover Institution is Milton Friedman, who is credited with bringing economic disaster to Chile, Israel, the United States, and other countries in which his "monetarist" theories have been introduced. Friedman's "monetarism" is the same old bankers' swindle of endless creation of more interest bearing debt money, requiring ever increasing taxes merely to meet the interest payments. He and Jack Kemp are now pushing for a "flat tax" to lock Americans into a tax corral from which they can never hope to escape.
Friedman came to the Hoover in 1977 as senior research fellow, simultaneously accepting a post as economic consultant to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. He and his consort, Murray Rothbard, dominate a closely interlocked network of "hard money", "conservative" groups, which includes the Heritage Foundation, Mont Pelerin Society, Cato Institute, Ludwig von Mises Institute, and American Enterprise Institute, which hold banquet meetings, always with no visible result. Their mentor is the late Ludwig von Mises, born in Austria, and founder of "the Austrian School of Economics", who taught at New York University from 1946 until his death. The Institute is now run by his widow, Margit Herzfeld, to whom President Reagan said, at a testimonial dinner for her husband, "You don't know how often I consult the books of your husband before making a decision." She still doesn't know.
At the age of 16, Milton Friedman became the protege of Arthur Burns at Rutgers and Columbia. Their economic principles stemmed from the "Viennese School" founded by Karl Menger and Eugen von Bauwerk. Merger taught von Hayek, Eric Voegelin and Fritz Machluys. At that time. Vienna was dominated by the House of Rothschild, which had controlled the national debt of Austria since the Congress of Vienna in 1815. Austria's Tyrol silver mines were owned by the Rothschilds, as were her railways. Empress Elizabeth's closest friend was Julie de Rothschild, sister of Baron Albert, head of the Austrian House.
Count Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi, who founded the Pan European Union, was named after Richard Wagner, one of whose students was Gustav Mahler. Mahler's studies with Wagner were funded by Baron Albert de Rothschild. Coudenhove-Kalergi's father was a close friend of Theordor Herzl, founder of Zionism. Coudenhove-Kalergi writes in his "Memoirs":
"At the beginning of 1924, we received a call from Baron Louis de Rothschild; one of his friends, Max Warburg from Hamburg, had read my book and wanted to get to know us. To my great surprise, Warburg spontaneously offered us 60,000 gold marks, to tide the movement over for its first three years .... Max Warburg, who was one of the most distinguished and wisest men that I have ever come into contact with, had a principle of financing these movements. He remained sincerely interested in Pan-Europe for his entire life. Max Warburg arranged his 1925 trip to the United States to introduce me to Paul Warburg and financier Bernard Baruch."
In Chicago, Jane Adams of Hull House had been for five years a protege of Beatrice Webb, founder of the Fabian Society. In 1892, the University of Chicago was organized as the center of the Fabian Socialist program in America, with J. Laurence Laughlin, spokesman for the Cobden Club's "free trade" program in England. Laughlin later became Paul Warburg's chief propagandist to stump for the passing of the Federal Reserve Act.
John Dewey became head of the Sociology Dept. at the Univ. of Chicago; Wesley Clair Mitchell was head of the economics dept. In 1913, they moved to Columbia University. They were later hired by Baruch at the War Industries Board, and prepared all the statistics for American representatives at the Versailles Peace Conference. In Feb. 1920, Mitchell met with the rest of the staff of Baruch's War Industries Board in New York with a Round Table group financed by Kuhn Loeb & Co. and Lazard Freres, to found the Natl Bureau of Economic Research, of which Mitchell became director. His protege was Arthur Burns, later chmn of the Natl Bureau, chmn Federal Reserve Governors, partner of Lazard Freres, and U.S. Ambassador to West Germany. Burns then brought in his protege, Milton Friedman, who has proposed that we legalize the sale of dope to raise $100 billion a year for the GNP.
Wesley Clair Mitchell's career was devoted to uniting the Austrian and British schools of economics in a single force to direct the American economy. He achieved success through the careers of his proteges, Burns and Friedman, who offer us the "flat rate" tax to pay interest on their bank-created debt money. It is the ancient European system introduced by the House of Rothschild to loot national economies by the rentier system of national debt.
A keystone of the Friedman-Burns network is the Mont Pelerin Society, a secretive group of economists which meets every two years, but issues no findings or recommendations. These supposedly conservative hard money economists first met at Mont Pelerin, Switzerland in 1947 to oppose the leftwing statist economists who had dominated the field for fifty years. They were led by Frederick von Hayek, a graduate of the Viennese school of economics, who became a British citizen in 1938. He was Tooke prof. of economics, Univ. of London 1931-50, prof. of social and moral science at the Univ. of Chicago 1950-62, and prof. of economics Univ. of Freiburg 1962-69, when he retired to Salzburg. He was a disciple of Ludwig von Mises, who taught Henry Hazlitt, another founder of Mont Pelerin. Hazlitt reported the founding meeting in Newsweek, Sept. 25, 1961, listing among those present:
Jacques Rueff, economic director of France
Pedro Beltran, president of Peru
Sen. Luigi Einaudi, prof. economics at Turin 1901-35, Governor of the Bank of Italy 1945-48, president of Italy 1948-55
Dr. Ludwig Erhard, Economic Minister of Germany, director of World Bank
Wilhelm Roepke, Erhard's economic adviser
Trygve Hoff, Norway
Muller-Armack and William Rappard of Germany
Frank Knight
Milton Friedman
Henry Hazlitt
In 1962, the Mont Pelerin Society met at Knokke, Belgium, announcing that "The Mont Pelerin Society takes no formal action, passes no resolutions, and seeks no publicity." In 1970, the Society met in Munich, where Milton Friedman was elected president. Present were Wesley Campbell and Martin Anderson from the Hoover Institution. In 1974, 300 members of the Society met at Brussels, where they were addressed by Milton Friedman and his protege Murray Rothbard. Rothbard was sponsored by the Cato Institute, a "conservative" group whose director, Earl C. Ravenel, is also director of the Institute for Policy Studies, the leftwing policy-making organization founded by James Paul Warburg.
Cato Institute is funded by Charles Koch of Kansas, head of Koch industries, who amassed a fortune of $700 million. He also funds the Libertarian Party, which calls for opening U.S. borders to all illegal immigrants, legalizing of drugs, and other alarming recommendations. Koch funds these groups through his bank, Morgan Guaranty Trust of N.Y.
Cato gave a two year grant to Rothbard to write a book, "For a New Liberty", which says, "Before World War II, so devoted was Stalin to peace that he failed to make adequate provision against Nazi attack." Rothbard should have said, "So devoted was Stalin to murder that he killed most of his Army officers, leaving him vulnerable to Nazi attack." Rothbard asserts that the U.S. is imperialist and war-mongering, while the Soviet Union is peace-loving, rational and misunderstood! The Cato Institute magazine Inquiry lists 9 staff writers, among them Nat Hentoff of the Village Voice, Marcus Raskin, head of the Institute for Policy Studies, and Penny Lernoux, correspondent of the Nation, all of whom would be hurt if they were not described as extreme liberals.
In 1975, George Roche III, who had become a member of the Society in 1971, hosted the meeting at Hillsdale College, of which he is president. William Buckley, also a member, addressed the group with a routine encomium for von Hayek.
In 1980, the Mont Pelerin Society met at the Hoover Institution, with 600 members and guests present. Ralph Harris was guest speaker. As Margaret Thatcher's director of economics, he had been made Baron Harris of High Cross in 1979. Count Max Thurn, permanent secretary of the Society, also addressed the meeting. He is a member of the wealthy Thurn und Taxis family, closely related to the British royal family.
The Encyclopaedia of Associations lists the Mont Pelerin Society, c/o Edwin Feulner, treasurer, Box 7031, Alexandria, Va; secretary Dr. Max Thurn, Elizabethstrasse 4, Vienna. Feulner is president of the Heritage Foundation, served as confidential asst. to Secretary of Defense 1969-70; adm asst. Phil Crane 1940-44, public affairs fellow Hoover Institution 1965-67, chmn Institute Europan Strategy and Defense Studies London since 1979.
Heritage Foundation, part of the network of "conservative" groups, sponsored Reagan's posthumous award of the Medal of Freedom to Whittaker Chambers in March 1984. Its directors are:
Shelby Cullom Davis, director of Hoover
Joseph Coors, director of Hoover
Midge Decter, exec. director Committee for a Free World, her husband is "neo-conservative" Norman Podhoretz, editor of Commentary magazine
Robert Dee, chmn Smith Kline drug firm, director United Technologies with William Simon
William Simon, director Citibank, former Secretary of the Treasury
Lewis E. Lehrman, head of the Lehrman Institute
John D. Wrather, heir to an oil fortune, head of the entertainment conglomerate Wrather Inc. and director of Hoover.
Feulner claims that Heritage cooperates with more than 400 groups in the U.S. and 100 overseas. Honarary chairman is Frank Shakespeare. Chairman of the editorial board is David Meiselman of the Mont Pelerin Society. Richard Reeves mentions in the N.Y. Times Magazine, July 15, 1984: "Edwin J. Feulner is president of the Heritage Foundation, one of the right's most productive idea factories." He failed to cite a single "idea" produced by this factory. The star of Heritage and its closely affiliated American Enterprise Institute is Jeane Kirkpatrick, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. She is routinely mentioned in terms of fulsome praise such as the Communist Party used to reserve for Stalin; National Review gushes over her, and also raves about "the ever gallant, charming, freedom-loving Friedmans" whose "energy, lucidity and patience" awes Buckley's propagandists.
Jeane Kirkpatrick has been prof. at Georgetown Univ. since 1967, chief of research American Enterprise Institute since 1977, director of Center for Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown. She is the wife of veteran intelligence operative Evron Kirkpatrick, OSS 1945, intelligence specialist Dept. of State 1946-54 as chief psychological intelligence research staff specializing in behavioural science (people control). He has been head of the American Political Science Association since 1954, and is president of the American Peace Society which publishes a quarterly called World Affairs.
The American Enterprise Institute (AEI) was founded by William J. Baroody and Milton Friedman in 1943; Baroody left in 1978 to take over the $7 million a year Center for Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown. His son, William Jr. former adviser to President Nixon, took over AEI and its staff of 150. Jr. was adm. asst. to Congressman Melvin Laird 1961-68, who then became Secretary of Defense; Baroody was spec. adviser at Defense 1969-73, spec. adviser to the President of the U.S. 1973-74, and is chairman Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Directors of American Enterprise Institute include:
Edward Bernstein
James S. Duesenberg, Presidential Council of Economic Advisers 1966-68, prof. at Harvard, director Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Fulbright fellow Cambridge England 1954-55
Frederick A. Praeger, emigre N.Y. publisher who published a number of propaganda works for the CIA
Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson prof of economics, Univ. of Va., editor AEI publication The Economist since 1977, served on War Production Board 1941-44, Brookings Institution fellow 1967-69, Council of Economic Advisers 1969, chairman 1972-74
Robert H. Bork, prof. law at Yale, former Solicitor General and Acting Atty. Gen. of U.S. 1973-77
Kenneth W. Daum, former partner Cravath Swaine & Moore, Wall Street law firm, now prof. of law, Univ. of Chicago
D. Gale Johnson, prof. economics at Univ. of Chicago since 1944, economist with OPA 1942, State Dept. 1946, U.S. Army econ. 1948, adviser to Congress 1974-76, consultant to TVA, Rand Corp. and AID, director William Benton Fndtn
Robert Nisbet, John Dewey lecturer at John Dewey Society, Rockefeller Foundation grant 1975-78, scholar at AEI since 1978
James D. Wilson, Shattuck prof. at Harvard
Richard B. Madden, chmn exec. committee AEI, chairman Socony Mobil since 1956, director Pacific Gas & Electric, Del Monte and Weyerhauser
Willard C. Butcher, former chmn Chase Manhattan Bank
Charles T. Fisher III, president Natl Bank of Detroit, director General Motors, Detroit Edison
Richard D. Wood, president Eli Lilly drugs since 1961, director Standard Oil of Indiana, and Chemical Bank.
Thus the well-funded "Hard Right" American Enterprises Institute's board of directors reads much like that of the Rockefeller Foundation or the Hoover Institution -- the usual New York banks, Standard Oil, General Motors crowd. The World Order maintains control.
Lewis Lehrman, director of Heritage Foundation, and founder of the 1000 store Rite Aid drug chain, set up his own foundation in 1978. After agonizing over a trenchant attention-getting name, he chose the obvious, Lewis Lehrman Institute. Its president is Robert W. Tucker, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, professor at John Hopkins School of International Studies, which was made famous by the tenure of Owen Lattimore, denounced by Sen. McCarthy as a leading Soviet agent. Director of Lehrman Institute is Barton Biggs of Brookings Institution. Lehrman spent $13.9 million campaigning to be elected Governor of New York, but was easily beaten by Mario Cuomo, who only spent $4.8 million. The New Republic Dec. 5, 1983 featured an article by Sidney Blumenthal, "How Lewis Lehrman Plans to Take Over America."
After examining the lavishly funded network of pseudo-rightwing foundations, it is almost a relief to go back to the forthright Marxist bias of the foundation movement, as exemplified by the Ford Foundation. The Special Committee to Investigate Tax Exempt Foundation reported in 1954:
"The Ford Foundation affords a good example of the use of a foundation to solve the death tax problem, and, at the same time, the problem of how to retain control of a great enterprise in the hands of a family. Ninety per cent of the ownership of the Ford Motor Co. was transferred to the Ford Foundation, created for the purpose. Had it not been it was almost certain that the family would have lost control."
The Ford family paid a terrible price to save the company. To prevent it from being split up, they had to turn it over to the most leftwing elements in the U.S. Norman Dodd states that while investigating tax exempt foundations, he interviewed H. Rowan Gaither, president of the Ford Foundation. Gaither complained about the "bad press" the Ford Foundation was receiving, and explained to Dodd:
"Most of us here were, at one time or another, active in either the OSS or the State Dept., or the European Economic Administration. During those times, and without exception, we operated under directives issued by the White House, the substance of which was to the effect that we should make every effort to alter life in the U.S. as to make possible a comfortable merger with the Soviet Union."
This is still the goal of the foundation movement.
In 1953, the Ford Foundation set up the $15 million Fund for the Republic, with Paul Hoffman, former head of ECA, married to Baruch's secretary, Anna Rosenberg. Directors of the Fund were former Zionist and labor leader Arthur Goldberg, and Henry Luce, of whom H.L. Mencken said, "I know why Henry hires so many Communists on his magazines. It's because they work cheap."
The Fund for the Republic hired Earl Browder, head of the Communist Party "to study the influence of Communism in contemporary America". In 1968, the Fund granted $215,000 to "promote in the U.S. the knowledge of contemporary Cuba. The funds will support the expenses of persons invited by the Gastro government to do research in Cuba." The National Guardian Jan. 13, 1968 pointed out that:
"The Ford Foundation plays a key part in financing and influencing almost all major civil rights groups including Congress of Racial Equality, Southern Christian Leadership, National Urban League, and NAACP."
The Ford Foundation has spent many millions to promote racial agitation and possible civil war in America, completely polarizing the races. In this effort, it is simply carrying on the plan inaugurated by the Rothschilds in 1865 with the Peabody Fund, the Slater Fund, and later the General Education Board, which is now the Rockefeller Foundation. It takes money to promote a civil war. Ford Foundation entered the Hispanic field by giving $600,000 to the openly revolutionary Southwest Council of La Raza in 1968, and an additional $545,717 in 1969. Congressman Henry Gonzalez, himself a Hispanic, denounced La Raza as fomenting "blind, stupid hatred."
Ford money has backed many revolutionary groups in the U.S. engaged in dynamiting and burning buildings, inciting riots, kidnaping and assassination. All of these are criminal offenses but no one is ever arrested. The Ford Motor Co. also built the huge Kama River truck factory in Soviet Russia, which provided the trucks for the Red Army to attack Afghanistan. They rolled into the almost defenseless country on a modern highway, which had been built by AID with American taxpayers' money.
The Ford Foundation has many capitalist and CIA connections. Stephen Bechtel and Chase lawyer John J. McCloy have been board members for years, also Frank Abram, chmn Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey. The president of the Ford Foundation is Franklin Thomas, a token black; he is also director of the $348 million John Hay Whitney Foundation. Whitney was Ambassador to England 1956-61, Order of the British Empire, chairman Freeport Sulphur, publisher of the N.Y. Tribune; he married Betsy Cushing Roosevelt. His daughter Kate married William Haddad of the New York Post, who set up the Peace Corps for Kennedy in 1961, is governor of American Jewish Congress, Yale Corp. and Museum of Modern Art. Other directors of J.H. Whitney Foundation include Harold Howe, also director Ford Foundation; Vernon Jordan, director of Rockefeller Foundation; and James F. Brownlee, partner of J.H. Whitney Co., and director Chase Manhatten Bank, R.H. Macy Co. & chmn Minute Maid Corp.
Other directors of Ford Foundation include its European director, Ralf Dahrendorf, admirer of Marx's "Utopian" policies. In his work, "Marx in Perspective", he claimed that Marx is the greatest factor in the emergence of modern society. Dahrendorf was fellow of Center of Advanced Study 1957-58, prof. sociology Hamburg, 1958-60, Columbia Univ. 1960, Univ. of Tubingen 1960-64, Secretary of State Foreign Office Germany 1969-70. As a professor of sociology, he created the concept of a "new man", whom he dubbed "homo sociologicus", man transformed by Socialism, in which all distinctions of race, and presumably, all other distinctions, have disappeared. Dahrendorf denies there are any differences in the races of mankind, and denounces any idea of "superiority" or differing skills as "ideological distortion". "Homo Sociologicus" is the creature of the social sciences, the socialized man who can be completely controlled by the forces of society.
The Ford Foundation introduced "behaviourism" or people control into the curricula at Harvard Business School through the director, Donald K. David, in 1956. David received a $2 million grant from Ford Foundation for this program, while he was a director of the foundation. In 1970, Ford Foundation established the Police Foundation, headed by Pat Murphy, to train police in behaviourism and "human relations".
Other directors of Ford Foundation are Harriet S. Rabb, asst. dean Columbia U. Law School, director of the NAACP Legal Fund since 1978. Her husband Bruce Rabb is partner of the Wall Street law firm, Stroock Stroock & Lavan, organized the Lehrman Institute and has been secretary of it since 1978. His father, Maxwell Rabb is also partner of this law firm; he was adm. asst. Sen. Henry Cabot Lodge 1937-43, Secretary of the Cabinet 1953-58 under Eishenower, joined Stroock Stroock & Lavan 1958, now Ambassador to Italy, chmn U.S. delegation to UNESCO. Other partners of this firm are William J. van den Heuvel, former law partner of Gen. Donovan, and his assistant when he was Ambassador to Thailand, campaign manager Jimmy Garter 1976; Rita Hauser, director Brookings Institution; and Robert B. Anderson former Secretary of Navy and Secretary of Treasury. Stroock Stroock & Lavan specializes in handling the family finances of wealthy old line Jewish families, and is trustee of all three Warburg foundations.
Chairman of the Ford Foundation is Alex Heard, who was with the War Dept. 1939-43, spec. adviser President of the U.S. 1970, director Time since 1968. Other directors are:
Hedley Donovan, editor in chief of Time, director of Trilateral Commission
Walter A. Haas, president of Levi Strauss, director Bank of America, NAACP Legal Fund, chmn United Jewish Appeal, and Alliance Israelite Universelle
Donald S. Perkins, of J.P. Morgan
Irving S. Shapiro, former chairman DuPont, director of Citicorp and Citibank, IBM, director US-USSR Trade & Economic Council
Glen E. Watt, of AFL-CIO, member Club of Rome, Trilateral Commission, Aspen Institute.
The purpose of the Pan-European Union, founded by Count Coudenhove-Kalergi, and funded by the Rothschilds and Warburgs, was to restore the oligarchic control over Europe. To accomplish this goal, it was necessary to emasculate and defeat the powerful republican currents which had their origin in the 14th century Renaissance, which, with its emphasis on the freedom of the human spirit, produced the greatest cultural outpouring in the history of mankind. This individualism was immediately expressed in nationalism; its republican spirit was dedicated to ending hereditary and arbitrary control and dictatorship over the lives of the people, reaching its greatest expression in the Constitution of the United States, which was the result of rebellion.
Because the ruling families of Europe are the direct descendants of William of Orange, who chartered the Bank of England in 1694, the movement to destroy nationalism and individualism has been directed from England, but expressed in the Communist movement. The World Order has planned and executed two World Wars to restore world rule by the oligarchy, a world rule variously called Bolshevism, the League of Nations, or the United Nations, but never the World Order.
The English control of this world movement is demonstrated by the ideology of American foundations, which is created by the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations in London. In 1921, the Duke of Bedford, Marquess of Tavistock, the 11th Duke, gave a building to the Institute to study the effect of shellshock on British soldiers who survived World War I. Its purpose was to establish the "breaking point" of men under stress, under the direction of the British Army Bureau of Psychological Warfare, commanded by Sir John Rawlings-Reese.
Tavistock Institute is headquartered in London, because its prophet, Sigmund Freud, settled here in Maresfield Gardens when he moved to England. He was given a mansion by Princess Bonaparte. Tavistock's pioneer work in behavioural science along Freudian lines of "controlling" humans established it as the world center of foundation ideology. Its network now extends from the University of Sussex to the U.S. through the Stanford Research Institute, Esalen, MIT, Hudson Institute, Heritage Foundation, Center of Strategic and International Studies at Georgetown where State Dept. personnel are trained, US Air Force Intelligence, and the Rand and Mitre corporations. The personnel of the foundations are required to undergo indoctrination at one or more of these Tavistock controlled institutions. A network of secret groups, the Mont Pelerin Society, Trilateral Commission, Ditchley Foundation, and Club of Rome is conduit for instructions to the Tavistock network.
Tavistock Institute developed the mass brain-washing techniques which were first used experimentally on American prisoners of war in Korea. Its experiments in crowd control methods have been widely used on the American public, a surreptitious but nevertheless outrageous assault on human freedom by modifying individual behaviour through topical psychology. A German refugee, Kurt Lewin, became director of Tavistock in 1932. He came to the U.S. in 1933 as a "refugee", the first of many infiltrators, and set up the Harvard Psychology Clinic, which originated the propaganda campaign to turn the American public against Germany and involve us in World War II. In 1938, Roosevelt executed a secret agreement with Churchill which in effect ceded U.S. sovereignty to England, because it agreed to let Special Operations Executive control U.S. polices. To implement this agreement, Roosevelt sent Gen. Donovan to London for indoctrination before setting up OSS (now the CIA) under the aegis of SOE-SIS. The entire OSS program, as well as the CIA has always worked on guidelines set up by the Tavistock Institute.
Tavistock Institute originated the mass civilian bombing raids carried out by Roosevelt and Churchill purely as a clinical experiment in mass terror, keeping records of the results as they watched the "guinea pigs" reacting under "controlled laboratory conditions". All Tavistock and American foundation techniques have a single goal -- to break down the psychological strength of the individual and render him helpless to oppose the dictators of the World Order. Any technique which helps to break down the family unit, and family inculcated principles of religion, honor, patriotism and sexual behaviour, is used by the Tavistock scientists as weapons of crowd control. The methods of Freudian psychotherapy induce permanent mental illness in those who undergo this treatment by destabilizing their character. The victim is then advised to "establish new rituals of personal interaction", that is, to indulge in brief sexual encounters which actually set the participants adrift with no stable personal relationships in their lives, destroying their ability to establish or maintain a family.
Tavistock Institute has developed such power in the U.S. that no one achieves prominence in any field unless he has been trained in behavioural science at Tavistock or one of its subsidiaries. Henry Kissinger, whose meteoric rise to power is otherwise inexplicable, was a German refugee and student of Sir John Rawlings Reese at SHAEF. Dr. Peter Bourne, a Tavistock Institute psychologist, picked Carter for President of the U.S. solely because Carter had undergone an intensive brainwashing program administered by Admiral Hyman Rickover at Annapolis. Paul Mellon's Old Dominion Foundation gave Tavistock $97,000 in 1956, and $12,000 during each of the three following years. Old Dominion also gave the Anna Freud Foundation $8000 a year. Tavistock maintains two schools at Frankfort, birthplace of the Rothschilds: the Frankfurt School, and the Sigmund Freud Institute.
The "experiment" in compulsory racial integration in the U.S. was organized by Ronald Lippert, of the OSS and the American Jewish Congress, and director of child training at the Commission on Community Relations. The program was designed to break down the individual's sense of personal knowledge in his identity, his racial heritage. Through the Stanford Research Institute, Tavistock controls the National Education Association. The Institute of Social Research at the Natl Training Lab brain washes the leading executives of business and government. Such is the power of Tavistock that our entire space program was scrapped for nine years so that the Soviets could catch up. The hiatus was demanded in an article written by Dr. Anatol Rapport, and was promptly granted by the government, to the complete mystification of everyone connected with NASA. Another prominent Tavistock operation is the Wharton School of Finance.
A single common denominator identifies the common Tavistock strategy -- the use of drugs. The infamous MK Ultra program of the CIA, directed by Dr. Sidney Gottlieb, in which unsuspecting CIA officials were given LSD, and their reaction studied like guinea pigs, resulted in several deaths. The U.S. Government had to pay millions in damages to the families of the victims, but the culprits were never indicted. The program originated when Sandoz AG, a Swiss drug firm, owned by S.G. Warburg Co. of London, developed lycergic acid. Roosevelt's advisor, James Paul Warburg, son of Paul Warburg who wrote the Federal Reserve Act, and nephew of Max Warburg who had financed Hitler, set up the Institute for Policy Studies to promote the drug. The result was the LSD "counter-culture" of the 1960s, the "student revolution", which was financed by $25 million from the CIA.
[For more on the drug culture, see "The Aquarian Conspiracy" --ed]
One part of MK Ultra was the Human Ecology Fund; the CIA also paid Dr. Herbert Kelman of Harvard to carry out further experiments on mind control. In the 1950s, the CIA financed extensive LSD experiments in Canada. Dr. D. Ewen Cameron, president of the Canadian Psychological Assn., and director of Royal Victorian Hospital, Montreal, received large payments from the CIA to give 53 patients large doses of LSD and record their reactions; the patients were drugged into weeks of sleep, and then given electric shock treatments. One victim, the wife of a member of the Canadian Parliament, is now suing the U.S. companies who provided the drug for the CIA. In his biography of Helms, Powers states that in his last days of office, Helms ordered Dr. Sidney Gottlieb, head of MK Ultra, to destroy all records of the CIA's drug-testing program, and that by Jan. 14, 1973, Helms had destroyed five thousand pages of notes taken in his office during his six and a half years as director of the CIA!
Because all efforts of the Tavistock Institute are directed toward producing cyclical collapse, the effect of the CIA programs are tragically apparent. R. Emmett Tyrell Jr., writing in the Washington Post Aug. 20, 1984, cites the "squalid consequences of the 60s radicals in SDS" as resulting in "the growing rate of illegitimacy, petty lawlessness, drug addiction, welfare, VD, and mental illness". This is the legacy of the Warburgs and the CIA. Their principal agency, the Institute for Policy Studies, was funded by James Paul Warburg; its co-founder was Marcus Raskin, protege of McGeorge Bundy, president of the Ford Foundation. Bundy had Raskin appointed to the post of President Kennedy's personal representative on the National Security Council, and in 1963 funded Students for Democratic Society (SDS), through which the CIA operated the drug culture.
Today, the Tavistock Institute operates a $6 billion a year network of foundations in the U.S., all of it funded by U.S. taxpayers' money. Ten major institutions are under its direct control, with 400 subsidiaries, and 3000 other study groups and think tanks which originate many types of programs to increase the control of the World Order over the American people. Typical is the Hudson Institute, a $5 million a year operation with 120 employees, founded in 1965 by Herman Kahn of the Rand Corp. and the Stanford Research Institute; its directors include:
Alexander Haig, president of United Technologies
Frank Carlucci, deputy secretary of Defense, and now chairman Sears World Trade Corp.
Daniel C. Searle, chmn G.D. Searle Drug Co.
Gov. Pierre du Pont of Delaware.
The principal architect of Hudson was Frank Altschul, director of Ford Foundation, partner of Lazard Freres, who married into the Lehman family, president General American Investors, director U.S. Leather, International Bank te Amsterdam, American Eagle Fire Insurance, the Yale Corp., Institute of International Studies, China Institute in America, whose Times obituary in 1981 called him "a Renaissance Man" who endowed the Yale Library and the Overbrook Press. Other Hudson associates are Leo Cherne of the Foreign Advisory Intelligence Board, and Sidney Hook of the Hoover Institution.
Stanford Research Institute, adjoining the Hoover Institution, is a $150 million a year operation with 3300 employees. It carries on program surveillance for Bechtel, Kaiser, and 400 other companies, and extensive intelligence operations for the CIA. It is the largest institution on the West Coast promoting mind control and the behavioural sciences.
One of the key agencies as a conduit for secret instructions from Tavistock is the Ditchley Foundation, founded in 1957 by Sir Philip Adams. A long time Foreign Service officer, Adams was Minister to Khartoum 1959, Ambassador to Jordan 1966-70, and Egypt 1973-75; he married the daughter of Baron Trevethin (the Lawrence family, which includes several lord chief justices of Britain.)
The Ditchley Foundation is headquartered at Ditchley Park, near Oxford, in a castle built for the Earl of Lichfield in the 16th century; the present Earl of Lichfield is a cousin of Queen Elizabeth, and is known as a photographer of beautiful women. Ditchley Park was given to the foundation by Ronald and Marietta Tree. Ronald Tree, a godson of Marshall Field, was for many years a high official in British intelligence. He was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Minister of Pensions, the Minister of Information, and the Minister of Planning.
He was first married to Nancy Moncure Perkins, of an old Virginia family. They divorced, and he married Marietta Peabody, granddaughter of Endicott Peabody, headmaster of Groton, where the American elite was trained. Her career gave rise to the term "beautiful people", the glittering international set devoted to leftwing causes. She began her career as a beautiful young "hostess" for Nelson Rockefeller in 1942, became a shop steward for the Newspaper Guild at Life Magazine, Fair Housing Practices Committee for New York, 1958 Volunteer for Stevenson, Commission on Human Rights at the U.N. 1959-61, Human Rights Commission U.N. 1961-64, Ambassador to the U.N. 1961-64. Magazine articles gave glowing reports of a "beautiful person's" life in New York, her townhouse at 123 E. 79th St. filled with antique furnishings and art treasures from Ditchley Park, the house run faultlessly by an English butler, as well as their summer home at Barbados, where they entertained Winston Churchill in 1960.
The American branch of the Ditchley Foundation is run by Cyrus Vance, former Secretary of State, and director of the Rockefeller Foundation; Alan Pifer, president of the Carnegie Foundation, and Winston Lord, president of the Council on Foreign Relations. Lord was political and military officer at the Dept. of State 1961-64, international security officer Defense Dept. 1969-73, spec. asst. to the President of the U.S. 1970-73, director of policy planning at Dept. of State 1973-77, member of Atlantic Council and Atlantic Institute. Other Ditchley members have been Wallace Sterling, president of Stanford University, Richard Steadman of the German Marshall Fund, and Donald Perkins of Brookings Institution. Perkins is a director of Time, Thyssen-Bornemitza, ATT, Corning, Cummins Engine, Freeport Moran, G.D. Searle, and Morgan Guaranty Trust Bank, and chairman of Jewel Tea Co.
One of the principal but little known operations of the Rockefeller Foundation has been its techniques for controlling world agriculture. Its director, Kenneth Wernimont, set up Rockefeller controlled agricultural programs throughout Mexico and Latin America. The independent farmer is a great threat to the World Order, because he produces for himself, and because his produce can be converted into capital, which gives him independence. In Soviet Russia, the Bolsheviks believed they had attained total control over the people; they were dismayed to find their plans threatened by the stubborn independence of the small farmers, the kulaks. Stalin ordered the OGPU to seize all food and animals of the kulaks, and to starve them out. The Chicago American Feb. 25, 1935 carried a front page headline, "SIX MILLION PERISH IN SOVIET FAMINE: Peasants' Crops Seized, They and their Animals Starve". To draw attention from this atrocity, it was later alleged that the Germans, not the Soviets, had killed six million people, the number taken from the Chicago American headline by a Chicago publicist.
The Communist Party, the Party of the Peasants and Workers, exterminated the peasants and enslaved the workers. Many totalitarian regimes have found the small farmer to be their biggest stumbling block. The French Reign of Terror was directed, not against the aristocrats, many of whom were sympathetic to it, but against the small farmers who refused to turn over their grain to the revolutionary tribunals in exchange for the worthless assignats.
In the United States, the foundations are presently engaged in the same type of war of extermination against the American farmer. The traditional formula of land plus labor for the farmer has been altered due to the farmer's need for purchasing power, to buy industrial goods needed in his farming operations. Because of this need for capital, the farmer is especially vulnerable to the World Order's manipulation of interest rates, which is bankrupting him.
Just as in the Soviet Union, in the early 1930s, when Stalin ordered the kulaks to give up their small plots of land to live and work on the collective farms, the American small farmer faces the same type of extermination, being forced to give up his small plot of land to become a hired hand for the big agricultural soviets or trusts. The Brookings Institution and other foundations originated the monetary programs implemented by the Federal Reserve System to destroy the American farmer, a replay of the Soviet tragedy in Russia, with the one proviso that the farmer will be allowed to survive if he becomes a slave worker of the giant trusts.
Once the citizen becomes aware of the true role of the foundations, he can understand the high interest rates, high taxes, the destruction of the family, the degradation of the churches into forums for revolution, the subversion of the universities into CIA cesspools of drug addiction, and the halls of government into sewers of international espionage and intrigue. The American citizen can now understand why every agent of the federal government is against him; the alphabet agencies, the FIB, IRS, CIA, and BATF must make war on the citizen in order to carry out the programs of the foundations.
We have seen the close interlocking of the foundations with international banks and corporations, all stemming from the Peabody Fund of 1865, and the War Industries Board of Bernard Baruch in World War I. The foundations are in direct violation of their charters, which commit them to do "charitable" work, because they make no grants which are not part of a political goal. The charge has been made, and never denied, that the Heritage-AEI network has at least two KGB moles on its staff. The employment of professional intelligence operatives as "charitable" workers, as was done in the Red Cross Mission to Russia in 1917, exposes the sinister political, economic and social goals which the World Order requires the foundations to achieve through their "bequests".
Not only is this tax fraud, because the foundations are granted tax exemption solely to do charitable work, but it is criminal syndicalism, conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States of America, Constitutional Law 213, Corpus Juris Secundum 16.
For the first time, the close interlocking of the foundation "syndicate" has been revealed by the names of its principal incorporators - Daniel Coit Gilman, who incorporated the Peabody Fund and the John Slater Fund, and became an incorporator of the General Education Board (now the Rockefeller Foundation). Gilman, who also incorporated the Russell Trust in 1856, later became an incorporator of the Carnegie Institution with Andrew Dickson White (Russell Trust) and Frederic A. Delano. Delano also was an original incorporator of the Brookings Institution and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Daniel Coit Gilman incorporated the Russell Sage Foundation with Cleveland H. Dodge of the National City Bank.
These foundations incorporators have been closely linked with the Federal Reserve System, the War Industries Board of World War I, the OSS of World War II and the CIA. They have also been closely linked with the American International Corporation, which was formed to instigate the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia. Delano, an uncle of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, was on the original Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 1914. His brother-in-law founded the influential Washington law firm of Covington and Burling.
The Delanos and other ruling families of the World Order trace their lineage directly back to William of Orange and the regime which granted the charter of the Bank of England. Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, is the daughter of the 14th Earl of Sirathmore. When William of Orange invaded England in 1688, the Scottish lords, who had been loyal to James II, were the last to capitulate. Patrick Lyon took the oath of fealty to William in 1690, and became the first Earl of Strathmore. The family resides at Glamis Castle, which was made famous by Shakespeare's play, "Macbeth". The present Lord Glamis is Michael Fergus Bowes-Lyon, heir of the 17th Earl of Strathmore, who holds additional titles of Earl of Kinghorne, Viscount Lyon, Farnedyce, Sydlaw, and Strathdichtie.
After gaining control of the national government, the Rockefeller Foundation moved to seize control of the state legislatures. The move began in Colorado, where the Rockefellers had perpetrated the infamous "Ludlow Massacre" of workers at their Colorado Fuel & Iron plant. State Senator Henry Wolcott Toll, a Denver lawyer and graduate of Harvard Law School, spearheaded the organization of the American Legislators Association in 1925. Time, April 27, 1936, noted that Toll in 1930 got financial aid from the Spelman Rockefeller Fund and moved the organization to the campus of Rockefeller's University of Chicago. Time noted:
"Today the Capitol of the U.S. is still in Washington, but so far as the states individually have any point of contact, it is Mr. Toll's office building in Chicago. Presently Rockefeller money is to erect a $500,000 building on Chicago's Midway to house these secretariats, a sort of League of Nations Palace for the local governments of the 48 states."
This became the Council of State Governments at 1313 60th St. Chicago, from which address the Rockefeller Foundation controlled the state legislatures and ramrodded their programs through mostly unsuspecting state bodies.
Time also noted that Toll's plans were approved by a principal character in this story, Frederick A. Delano:
"His sentiments were echoed with approval by Franklin Roosevelt's uncle, Frederick A. Delano, who, as chairman of the President's Committee on National Resources, was there to lend his advice."
Thus we have the founder of the Brookings Institution guiding foundation control of the state legislatures. The Council of State Governments has now moved to Lexington, Kentucky, where it at present comprises the Conference of Chief Justices, Conference of State Court Administrators, and the National Associations of Attorney Generals, Secretaries of State and State Auditors, State Purchasing Offices, Lieutenant Governors, and State Legislators. The governors of the 50 states comprise the membership of the Council of State Governments.
