# MORALS and DOGMA by Albert Pike.

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/morals_dogma/apike08.htm

XXIV. PRINCE OF THE TABERNACLE.SYMBOLS were the almost universal language of ancient theology. They were themost obvious method of instruction ; for, like nature herself, they addressedthe understanding through the eye ; and the most ancient expressions denotingcommunication of religious knowledge, signify ocular exhibition. The firstteachers of mankind borrowed this method of instruction ; and it comprised anendless store of pregnant hieroglyphics. These lessons of the olden time werethe riddles of the Sphynx, tempting the curious by their quaintness, butinvolving the personal risk of the adventurous interpreter. "The Godsthemselves," it was said, "disclose their intentions to the wise, but to foolstheir teaching is unintelligible ;" and the King of the Delphic Oracle was saidnot to declare, nor onthe other hand to conceal; but emphatically to "intimateor signify."The Ancient Sages, both barbarian and Greek, involved their meaning in similarindirections and enigmas ; their lessons were conveyed either in visiblesymbols, or in those "parables and dark sayings of old," which the Israelitesconsidered it a sacred duty to hand down unchanged to successive generations.The explanatory tokens employed by man, whether emblematical objects oractions, symbols or mystic ceremonies, were like the mystic signs and portendseither in dreams or by the wayside, supposed to he significant of theintentions of the Gods ; both required the aid of anxious thought and skillfulinterpretation. It was only by a conect appreciation of analogous problems ofnature, that the will of Heaven could be understood iy the Diviner, or thelessons of Wisdom become manifest to the Sage.The Mysteries were a series of symbols ; and what was spoken there consistedwholly of accessory explanations of the act or image ; sacred commentaries,explanatory of established symbols; with little of those independent traditionsembodying physical or moral speculation, in which the elements or planets werethe Sage. actors, and the creation and revolutions of the world wereintermingled with recollections of ancient events: and yet with so much of thatalso, that nature became her own expositor through the medium of an arbitrarysymbolical instruction; and the ancient views of the relation between the humanand divine received dramatic forms.There has ever been an intimate alliance between the two systems, the symbolicand the philosophical, in the allegories of the monuments of all ages, in thesymbolic writings of the priests of all nations, in the rituals of all secretand mysterious societies; there has been a constant series, an invariableuniformity of principles, which come from an aggregate, vast imposing, andtrue, composed of parts that fit harmoniously only there.Symbolical instruction is recommended by the constant and' uniform usage ofantiquity, - and it has retained its influence throughout all ages, as a systemof mysterious communication. The Deity, in his revelations to man, adopted theuse of material images for the purpose of enforcing sublime truths; and Christtaught by symbols and parables. The mysterious knowledge of the Druids wasembodied in signs and symbols. Taliesin, describing his initiation, says : "Thesecrets were imparted to me by the old Giantess (Ceridwen, or Isis), withoutthe use of audible language." And again he says, "I am a silent proficient"Initiation was ,a school, in which were taught the truths of primitiverevelation, the existence and attributes of one God, the immortality of theSoul, rewards and punishments in a future life, the phenomena of Nature, thearts, the sciences, morality, regulation, philosophy, and philanthropy, andwhat we now style psychology and metaphysics, with animal magnetism, and theother occult sciences.All the ideas of the Priests of Hindustan, Persia, Syria, Arabia, Chaldaea,Phoenicia, were known to the Egyptian Priests. The rational Indian philosophy,after penetrating Persia and Chaldaea, gave birth to the Egyptian Mysteries. Wefind that the use of Hieroglyphics was preceded in Egypt by that of the easilyunderstood symbols and figures, from the mineral, animal, and vegetablekingdoms, used by the Indians, Persians, and Chaldans to express theirthoughts; and this primitive philosophy was the basis of the modern philosophyof Pythagoras and Plato. - All the philosophers and legislators that madeAntiquity illustrious, were pupils of the initiation; and all the beneficentmodifications in the religions of the different people instructed by them wereowing to their institution and extension of the Mysteries In the chaos ofpopular superstitions, those Mysteries alone kept man from lapsing intoabsolute brutishness. Zoroaster and Confucius drew their doctrines from theMysteries. Clement of Alexandria, speaking of the Great Mysteries, says : "Hereends all instruction. Nature and all things are seen and knownmoral truths alone been taught the Initiate, the Mysteries could never havedeserved nor received the magnificent eulogiums of the most enlightened alienof Antiquity,-of Pindar, Plutarch, Isocrates, Diodorus, Plato, Euripides,Socrates, Aristophanes, Cicero, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, and others;-philosophers hostile to the Sacerdotal Spirit, or historians devoted to theinvestigation of Truth. No : all the sciences were taught there ; and thoseoral on written traditions briefly communicated, which reached back to thefirst age of the world.Socrates said, in the Phaedo of Plato: "It well appears that those whoestablished the Mysteries, or secret assemblies of the initiated, were nocontemptible personages, but men of great genius, who in the early ages stroveto teach us, under enigmas, that he who shall go to the invisible regionswithout being punfied, will be precipitated into the abyss ; while he whoarrives there, purged of the stains of this world, and accomplished in virtue,will be admitted to the dwelling-place of the Deity . The jnitiated are certainto attain the company of the Gods."Pretextatus, Proconsul of Achaia, a man endowed with all the virtues, said, inthe 4th century, that to deprive the Greeks of those Sacred Mysteries whichbound together the whole human race, would make life insupportable.Initiation was considered to be a mystical death ; a descent into the infernalregions, where every pollution, and the stains and imperfection's of a corruptand evil life were purged away by fire and water ; and the perfect Epopt wasthen said to be regenerated, new-born, restored to a renovated existence oflife, light, and purity; and placed under the Divine Protection.A new language was adapted to these celebrations, and also a language ofhieroglyphics, unknown to any but those who had received the highest Degree.And to them ultimately were confined the learning, the morality, and thepolitical power, of every people among which the Mysteries were practiced. Soeffectually was the knowledge of the hieroglyphics of the highest Degree hiddenfrom all but a favored few, that in process of time their meaning was entirelylost, and none could interpret them. If the same hieroglyphics were employed inthe higher as in the lower Degrees, they had a different and more abstruse andfigurative meaning. It was pretended, in later times, that the sacredhieroglyphics and language were the same that were used by the CelestialDeities. Everything that could heighten the mystery of initiation wasadded, until the very name of the ceremony possessed a strange charm, and yetconjured up the wildest fears. ache greatest rapture came to be expressed bythe word that signified to pass through the Mysteries.The Priesthood possessed one third of Egypt. They gained much of theirinfluence by means of the Mysteries, and spared no means to impress the peoplewith a full sense of their importance. They represented them as the beginningof a new life of reason and virtue : the initiated, or esoteric companions weresaid to entertain the most agreeable anticipations respecting death andeternity, to comprehend all the hidden mysteries of Nature, to have their soulsrestored to the original perfection from which man had fallen ; and at theirdeath to be borne to the celestial mansions of the Gods. The doctrines of afuture state of rewards and punishments formed a prominent feature in theMysteries; and they were also believed to assure much temporal happiness andgood fortune, and afford absolute security against the most imminent dangers byland and sea. Public odium was cast of those who refused to be initiated. Theywere considered profane, unworthy of public employment or private confidence;and held to be doomed to eternal punishment as impious. To betray the secretsof the Mysteries, to wear on the stage the dress of an Initiate, or to hold theMysteries up do derision, was to incur death at the hands of public vengeance.It is certain that up to the time of Cicero, the Mysteries still retained muchof their original character of sanctity and purity. And at a later day, as weknow, Nero, after committing a horrible crime, did not dare, even in Greece, toaid in the celebration of the Mysteries ; nor at a still later day wasConstantine, the Christian Emperor, allowed to do so, after his murder of hisrelatives.Everywhere, and in all their forms, the Mysteries were funereal ;and celebrated the mystical death and restoration to life of some divine orheroic personage : and the details of the legend and the mode of the deathvaried in the different Countries where the Mysteries were practiced.heir explanation belongs both to astronomy and mythology, and the Legend ofthe Master's Degree is but another form of that of the Mysteries, reachingback, in one shape or other, to the remotest antiquity.Whether Egypt originated the legend, or borrowed it from India or Chaldea, itis now impossible to know. But the Hebrews received the Mysteries from theEgyptians; and of course were familiar with their legend,-known as it was tothose Egyptian Initiates, Joseph and Moses. It was the fable (or rather thetruth clothed in allegory and figures) of Osiris, the Sun, Source of Light andPrinciple of good, and Typhon, the Principle of Darkness, and Evil. In all thehistories of the Gods and Heroes lay couched and hidden astronomical detailsand the history of the operations of visible Nature; and those in their turnwere also symbols of higher and profounder truths. None but rude uncultivatedintellects could long consider the Sun and Stars and the Powers of Nature asDivine, or as fit objects of Human Worship; and they will consider them sowhile the world lasts ; and ever. remain ignorant of the great Spiritual Truthsof which these are the hieroglyphics and expressions.A brief summary of the Egyptian legend will serve to show the leading idea onwhich the Mysteries among the Hebrews were based. Osiris, said to have been anancient King of Egypt, was the Sun; and Isis, his wife, the Moon: and hishistory recounts, in poetical and figurative style, the annual journey of theGreat Luminary of Heaven through the different Signs of the Zodiac. In theabsence of Osiris, Typhon, his brother, filled with envy and malice, sought tousurp his throne ; but his plans were frustrated by Isis. Then he resolved tokill Osiris. This he did,. by persuading him to enter a coffin or sarcophagus,which he then flung into the Nile. Alter a Long search, Isis found the body,and concealed it in the depths of a forest ; but Typhon, finding it there, cutit into fourteen pieces, and scattered them hither and thither. After tedioussearch, Isis found thirteen pieces, the fishes having oaten the other (theprivates), which she replaced of wood, and buried the body at Philae; where atemple of surpassing magnificence was erected in honor of Osiris.Isis, aided by her son Orus, Horus or Har-oeri, warred against Typhon, slewhim, reigned gloriously, and at her death was reunited to her husband, in thesame tomb. Typhon was represented as born of the earth ; the upper part of hisbody covered with feathers, in stature reaching the clouds, his arms and legscovered with scales, serpents darting from him on every side, and fire flashingfrom his mouth. Horus, who aided in slaying him, became the God of the Sun,answering to the Grecian Apollo; and Typhon is but the anagram of Python, thegreat serpent slain by Apollo.The word Typhon, like Eve, signifies a serpent, and life. By its form theserpent symbolizes life, which circulates through all nature. When, toward theend of autumn, the Woman (Virgo), in the constellations seems (upon theChaldean sphere) to crush with her heel the head of the serpent, this figureforetells the coming of winter, during which life seems to retire from allbeings, and no longer to circulate through nature. This is why Typhon signifiesalso a serpent, the symbol of winter, which, in the Catholic Temples, isrepresented surrounding the Terrestrial Globe, which surmounts the heavenlycross, emblem of redemption. If the word Typhon is derived from Tupoul) itsignifies a tree which produces apples (mala) evils), the Jewish origin of thefall of man: Typhon means also one who supplants, and signifies the humanpassions, which expel from our hearts the lessons of wisdom. In the EgyptianFable, Isis wrote the sacred word for the instruction of men, and Typhoneffaced it as fast as she wrote it. In morals, his name signifies Pride,Ignorance and Falsehood.When Isis first found the body, where it had floated ashore near Byblos, ashrub of Erica or tamarisk near it had, by the virtue of the body, shot up intoa tree around it, and protected it; and hence our sprig of acacia. Isis wasalso aided in her search by Anubis, in the shape of a dog. He was Sirius or theDog-Star, the friend and counselor of Osiris, and the inventor sf language,grammar, astronomy, surveying, arithmetic, music, and medical science; thefirst maker of laws; and who taught the worship of the Gods, and the buildingof Temples.In the Mysteries, the nailing up of the body of Osiris in the chest or ark wastermed the aphanism) or disappearance [of the Sun at the Winter Solstice, belowthe Tropic of Capricorn], and the recovery of the different parts of his bodyby Isis, the Euresis, or finding. The candidate went through a ceremonyrepresenting this, in all the Mysteries everywhere. The main facts in the fablewere the same in all countries; and the prominent Deities were everywhere amale and a female.In Egypt they were Osiris and Isis: in India, Mahadeva and Bhavani : inPhoenicia, Thammuz (or Adonis) and Astarte: in Phrygia, Atys and Cybele: inPersia, Mithras and Asis: in Samothrace and Greece, Dionysus or Sabazeus andRhea: in Britain, Hu and Ceridwen : and in Scandinavia, Woden and Frea: and inevery instance these Divinities represented the Sun and the Moon.The mysteries of Osiris, Isis, and Horus, seem to have been the model of allother ceremonies of initiation subsequently established among the differentpeoples of the world. Those of Atys and Cybele, celebrated in Phrygia; those ofCeres and Proserpine, at Eleusis and many other places in Greece, were butcopies of them. This we learn from Plutarch, Diodorus Siculus, Lactantius, andother writers; and in the absence of direct testimony should necessarily inferit from the similarity of the adventures of these Deities ; for the ancientsheld that the Ceres of he Greeks was the same as the Isis of the Egyptians; andDionusos or Bacchus as Osiris.In the legend of Osiris and Isis, as given by Plutarch, are many details andcircumstances other than those that we have briefly mentioned; and all of whichwe need not repeat here. Osiris married his sister Isis ; and labored publiclywith her to ameliorate he lot of men. He taught them agriculture, while Isisinvented laws. He built temples to the Gods, and established their worship.Both were the patrons of artists and their useful inventions: and .introducedthe use of iron for defensive weapons and implements of agriculture, and ofgold to adorn the temples of the Gods. He went forth with an army to conquermen to civilization, teaching he people whom he overcame to plant the vine andsow grain for food.Typhon, his brother, slew him when the sun was in the sign of e Scorpion, thatis to say, at the Autumnal Equinox. They had been rival claimants, saysSynesius, for the throne of Egypt, as Light and Darkness contend ever for theempire of the world. Plutarch adds, that at the time when Osiris was slain, themoon was at its full; and therefore it was in the sign opposite the Scorpion,that is, the Bull, the sign of the Vernal Equinox.Plutarch assures us that it was to represent these events and details thatIsis established the Mysteries, in which they were reproduced by images,symbols, and a religious ceremonial, whereby they were imitated : and in whichlessons of piety were given, and consolations under the misfortunes thatafflict us here below. Those who instituted these Mysteries meant to strengthenreligion and console men in their sorrows by the lofty hopes found in areligious faith, whose principles were represented to them covered by a pompousceremonial, and under the sacred veil of allegory.Diodorus speaks of the famous columns erected near Nysa, in Arabia, where, itwas said, were two of the tombs of Osiris and Isis. On one was thisinscription: "I am Isis, Queen of this country. I was instructed by Mercury. Noone can destroy the laws which I have established. I am the eldest daughter ofSaturn, most ancient of the Gods. I am the wife and sister of Osiris the King.I first made known tomortals the use of wheat. I am the mother of Orus theKing. In my honor was the city of Bubaste built. Rejoice, O Egypt, rejoice,land that gave me birth!" ... And on the other was this: "I am Osiris the King,who led my armies into all parts of the world, to the most thickly inhabitedcountries of India, the North, the Danube, and the Ocean. I am the eldest sonof Saturn : I was born of the brilliant and magnificent egg, and my substanceis of the same nature as that which composes light. There is no place in theUniverse where I have not appeared, to bestow my benefits and make known mydiscoveries." The rest was illegible.To aid her in the search for the body of Osiris, and to nurse her infant childHorus, Isis sought out and took with her Anubis, son of Osiris, and his sisterNephte. He, as we have said, was Sirius, the brightest star in the Heavens.After finding him, she went to Byblos, and seated herself near a fountain;where she had learned that the sacred chest had stopped which contained thebody of Osiris. There she sat, sad and silent, shedding a torrent of tears.Thither came the women of the C6urt of Queen Astarte, and she spoke to them,and dressed their heir, pouring upon it deliciously perfumed ambrosia. Thisknown to the Queen, Isis was engaged as nurse for her child, in the palace, oneof the columns of which was made of the Erica or tamarisk, that had grown upover the chest containing Osiris, cut down by the King, and unknown to him,still enclosing the chest: which column Isis afterward demanded, and from itextracted the chest and the body, which, the latter wrapped in thin drapery andperfumed, she carried away with her.Blue Masonry, ignorant of its import, still retains among its emblems one of awoman weeping over a broken column, holding in her hand a branch of acacia,myrtle, or tamarisk, while Time, we are told, stands behind her combing out theringlets of her hair. We need not repeat the vapid and trivial explanationthere given, of this representation of Isis, weeping at Byblos, over the columntorn from the palace of the living, that contained the body of Osiris, whileHorus, the God of Time, pours ambrosia on her hair.Nothing of this recital was historical; but the whole was an allegory orsacred fable, containing a meaning known only to those who were initiated intothe Mysteries. All the incidents were astronomical, with a meaning still deeperlying behind that explanation, and so hidden by a double veil. The Mysteries inwhich these incidents were represented and explained, were like those ofEleusis in their object, of which Pausanias, who was initiated, says that theGreeks, from the remotest antiquity, regarded them as the best calculated ofall things to lead mental piety : and Aristotle says they were the mostvaluable of all religious instillations, and thus were called mysteries parexcellence; and the Temple of Eleusis was regarded as, in some sort, the commonsanctuary of the whole earth, where religion had brought together all that wasmost imposing and most august.The object of all the Mysteries was to inspire men with piety, and to consolethem in the miseries of life. That consolation, so afforded, was the hope of ahappier future, and of pasting, after death, to a state of eternal felicity.Cicero says that the Initiates not only received lessons which made life moreagreeable, but drew from the ceremonies happy hopes for the moment of death.Socrates says that those who were so fortunate as to be admitted to theMysteries, possessed, when dying, the most glorious hopes for eternity.Aristides says that they not only procure the Initiates consolations in thepresent life, and means of deliverance from the great weight of their evils,but also the precious advantage of passing after death to a happier state.Isis was the Goddess of Sais; and the famous Feast of Lights was celebratedthere in her honor. There were celebrated the Mysteries, in which wererepresented the death and subsequent restoration to life of the God Osiris, ina secret ceremony and scenic representation of his sufferings, called theMysteries of Night.The Kings of Egypt often exercised the functions of the Priesthood; and theywere initiated into the sacred science as soon as they attained the throne. Soat Athens, the First Magistrate, or Archon-King, superintended the Mysteries.'This was an image of the union that existed between the Priesthood and Royalty,in those early times when legislators and kings sought in religion a potentpolitical instrument.Herodotus says, speaking of the reasons why animals were deified in Egypt: "IfI were to explain these reasons, I should be led to the disclosure of thoseholy matters which I particularly wish to avoid, and which, but from necessity,I should not leave discussed at all." So he says, "The Egyptians have at Saisthe tomb of a certain personage, whom I do not think myself permitted tospecify. It is behind the Temple of Minerva." [The latter, so called by theGreeks, was really Isis, whose was the often-cited enigmatical inscription, "Iam what was and is and is to come. No mortal hath yet unveiled me."] So againhe says: "Upon this lake are represented by night the accidents which happenedto him whom I dare not name. The Egyptians call them their Mysteries.Concerning these, at the same time that I confess myself sufficiently informed,I feel myself compelled to be silent. Of the ceremonies also in honor of CeresI may not venture to speak, further than the obligations of religion will allowme."It is easy to see what was the great object of initiation and the Mysteries ;whose first and greatest fruit was, as all the ancients testify, to civilizesavage hordes, to soften their ferocious manners, to introduce among themsocial intercourse, and lead them into a way of life more worthy of men. Ciceroconsiders the establishment of the EIeusiiiian Mysteries to be the greatest ofall the benefits conferred by Athens on other commonwealths ; their effects381 having been, he says, to civilize men, soften their savage and ferociousmanners, `and teach them the true principles of morals, which initiate man intothe only kind of life worthy of him. The same philosophic orator, in a passagewhere he apostrophizes Ceres and Proserpine, says that mankind owes theseGoddesses the first elements of moral life, as well as the first means ofsustenance of physical life ; knowledge of the laws, regulation of morals, andthose examples of civilization which have improved the manners of men andcities.Bacchus in Euripides says to Pentheus, that his new institution (the DionysianMysteries) deserved to be known, and that one of its great advantages was, thatit prescribed all impurity : that these were the Mysteries of Wisdom, of whichit would be imprudent to speak to persons not initiated : that they wereestablished among the Barbarians, who in that showed greater wisdom than theGreeks, who had not yet received them.This double object, political and religious,-one teaching our duty to men, andthe other what we owe to the Gods; or rather, respect for the Gods calculatedto maintain that which we owe the laws, is found in that well-known verse ofVirgil, borrowed by him from the ceremonies of initiation : "Teach me torespect Justice and the Gods." This great lesson, which the Hierophantimpressed on the Initiates, after they had witnessed a representation of theInfernal regions, the Poet places after his description of the differentpunishments suffered by the wicked in Tartarus, and immediately after thedescription of that of Sisyphus.Pausanias, likewise, at the close of the representation of the punishments ofSisyphus and the daughters of Danaus, in the Temple at Delphi, makes thisreflection ; that the crime or impiety which in them had chiefly merited thispunishment, was the contempt which they had shown for the Mysteries of Eleusis.From this reflection of Pausanias, who was an Initiate, it is easy to see thatthe Priests of Eleusis, who taught the dogma of punishment in Tartarus,included among the great crimes deserving these punishments, contempt for anddisregard of the Holy Mysteries; whose object was to lead men to piety, andthereby to respect for justice and the laws, chief object of their institution,if not the only one, and to fvhich the needs and interest of religion itselfwere subordinate; since the latter was but a means to lead more surely to thefoyer ; for the whole force of religious opinions being in the hands of thelegislators to be wielded, they were sure of being better obeyed.The Mysteries were not merely simple illustrations and the observation of somearbitrary formulas and ceremonies ; nor a means of reminding men of the ancientcondition of the race prior to civilization: but they led men to piety byinstruction in morals and as to a future life; which at a very early day, ifnot originally, formed the chief portion of the ceremonial.Symbols were used in the ceremonies, which referred to agriculture, as Masonryhas preserved the ear of wheat in a symbol and in one of her words; but theirprincipal reference was to astronomical phenomena. Much was no doubt said as tothe condition of brutality and degradation in which man was sunk before theinstitution of the Mysteries ; but the allusion was rather metaphysical, to theignorance of the uninitiated, than to the wild life of the earliest men.The great object of the Mysteries of Isis, and in general of all theMysteries, was a great and truly politic one. It was to ameliorate our race, toperfect, its manners and morals, and to restrain society by stronger bonds thanthose that human laws impose. They were the invention of that ancient scienceand wisdom which exhausted all its resources to make legislation perfect ; andof that philosophy which has ever sought to secure the happiness of man, bypurifying his soul from the passions which can trouble it, and asia necessaryconsequence introduce social disorder. And that they were the work of genius isevident from their employment of all the sciences, a profound knowledge of thehuman heart, and the means of subduing it.It is a still greater mistake to imagine that they were the inventions ofcharlatanism, and means of deception. They may in the lapse of time havedegenerated into imposture and schools of false ideas; but they were not so atthe beginning; or else the wisest and best men of antiquity have uttered toemost willful falsehoods. In process 0f time the very allegories of theMysteries themselves, Tantalus and its punishments, Minos and the other judgesof the dead. came to be misunderstood, and to be false because they were so;while at first they were true, because they were recognized as merely thearbitrary forms in which truths were enveloped.The object of the Mysteries was to procure for man a real felicity on earth bythe means of virtue; and to that end he was taught that his soul was immortal ;and that error, sin, and vice must needs, by an inflexible law, produce theirconsequences. The rude representations of physical torture in Tantalus was butan image of , the certain, unavoidable, eternal consequences that flow by thelaw of God's enactment from the sin committed and the vice indulged in. Thepoets and mystagogues labored to propagate these doctrines of the soul'simmortality and the certain punishment of sin and vice, and to accredit themwith the people, by teaching them the former in their poems, and the latter inthe sanctuaries; and they clothed them with the charms, the one of poetry, andthe other of spectacles and magic illusions.They painted, aided by all the resources of art, the virtuous man's happylif.e after death, and the horrors of the frightful prisons destined to punishthe vicious. In the shades of the sanctuaries, these delights and horrors wereexhibited as spectacles, and the Initiates witnessed religious dramas, underthe name of initiation and mysteries. Curiosity was excited by secrecy, by tiedifficulty experienced in obtaining admission, and by the tests to beundergone. The candidate was amused by the variety of the scenery, the pomp ofthe decorations, the appliances of machinery. Respect was inspired by thegravity and dignity of the actors and the majesty of the ceremonial ; and fearand hope, sadness and delight, were in turns excited.The Hierophants, men of intellect, and well understanding the disposition ofthe people and the art of controlling them, used every appliance to attain thatobject, and give importance and impressiveness to their ceremonies. As theycovered those ceremonies with the veil of Secrecy, so they preferred that Night, should cover them with its wings. Obscurity adds to impressiveness, andassists illusion; and they used it to produce an effect upon the astonishedInitiate. The ceremonies were conducted in caverns dimly lighted : thick groveswere planted around the Temples, to produce that gloom that impresses the mindwith a religious awe.The very word mystery, according to Demetrius Phalereus, was a metaphoricalexpression that denoted the secret awe which darkness and gloom inspired. Thenight was almost always the time fixed for their celebration ; and they wereordinarily termed nocturnal ceremonies. Initiations into the Mysteries ofSamothrace tookplace at night ; as did those of Isis, of which Apuleius speaks.Euripides makes Bacchus say, that his Mysteries were celebrated at night,because there is in night something august and imposing. Nothing excites men'scuriosity so much as Mystery, concealing things which they desire to know : andnothing so much increases curiosity as obstacles that interpose to prevent themfrown indulging in the gratification of their desires. Of this the Legislatorsand Hierophants took advantage, to attract the people to their sanctuaries, andto induce them to seek to obtain lessons from which they would perhaps haveturned away with indifference, if they had been pressed upon them. In thisspirit of mystery they professed to imitate the Deity who hides Himself fromour senses, and conceals from us the springs by which He moves the Universe.They admitted that they concealed the highest truths under the veil ofallegory, the more to excite the curiosity of men, and to urge them toinvestigation. The secrecy in which they buried their Mysteries, had that end.Those to whom they were confided, bound themselves, by the most fearful oaths,never to reveal `them. They were not allowed even to speak of these importantsecrets with any others than the initiated ; and the penalty of death waspronounced against any one indiscreet enough to reveal them, or found in theTemple without being an Initiate; and any one who had betrayed those secrets,was avoided by all, as excommunicated.Aristotle was accused of impiety, by the Hierophant Eurymendon, for havingsacrificed to the manes of his wife, according to the rite used in the worshipof Ceres. He was compelled to flee to Chalcis ; and to purge his memory fromthis stain, he directed, by his will, the erection of a Statue to that Goddess.Socrates, dying, sacrificed to Esculapius, to exculpate himself from thesuspicion of Atheism. A price was set on the head of Diagoras because he haddivulged the Secret of the Mysteries. Andocides was accused of the same crime,as was Alcibiades, and both were cited to answer the charge before theinquisition at Athens, where the People were the Judges: Aeschylus theTragedian was accused of having represented the Mysteries on the. stage ; andwas acquitted only on proving that he had never been initiated.Seneca, comparing Philosophy to initiation, says that the most sacredceremonies could be known to the adapts alone : but that man of their preceptswere known even to the Profane. Such 385 was the case with the doctrine of afuture life, and a state of rewards and punishments beyond the grave. Theancient legislators clothed this doctrine in the pomp of a mysterious ceremony,in mystic words and magical representations, to impress upon the mind thetruths they taught, by the strong influence of such scenic displays upon thesenses and imagination.In the same way they taught the origin of the soul, its fall to the earth pastthe spheres and through the elements, and its final return to the place of itsorigin, when, during the continuance of its union with earthly matter, thesacred fire, which formed its essence, had contracted no stains, and itsbrightness had not been marred by foreign particles, which, denaturalizing it,weighed it down and delayed its return. These metaphysical ideas, withdifficulty comprehended by the mass of the Initiates, were represented byfigures, by symbols, and by allegorical analogies; no idea being so abstractthat men do not seek to give it expression by, and translate it into, sensibleimages.The attraction of Secrecy was enhanced by the difficulty of obtainingadmission. Obstacles and suspense redoubled curiosity. Those who aspired to theinitiation of the Sun and in the Mysteries of Mathias in Persia, underwent manytrials. `rhey commenced by easy tests and arrived by degrees at those that weremost cruel, in which the life of the candidate was often endangered. GregoryNazianzen terms them tortures and mystic punishments. No one call be initiated,says Suidas, until after he has proven, by the most terrible trials, that hepossesses a virtuous soul, exempt from the sway of every passion, and at itwere impassible. There were twelve principal tests; and some make the numberlarger.The trials of the Eleusinian initiations were not so terrible ; but they weresevere ; and the suspense, above all in which the aspirant was kept for severalyears [the memory of which is retained in Masonry by the ages of those of thedifferent Degrees ], or the interval between admission to the inferior andinitiation in the great Mysteries, was a species of torture to the curiositywhich it was desired to excite. Thus the Egyptian Priests tried Pythagorasbefore admitting him to know the secrets of the sacred science. He succeeded,by his incredible patience and the courage with which he surmounted allobstacles, in obtaining admission to their society and receiving their lessons.Among the Jews, the Essenes admitted none among them, until they had passed thetests or several Degrees.By initiation, those who before were fellow-citizens only, became brothers,connected by a closer bond than before, by means. of a religious fraternity,which, bringing men nearer together, united them more strongly : and the weakand the poor could more readily appeal for assistance to the powerful and thewealthy, with whom religious association gave them a closer fellowship.The Initiate was regarded as the favorite of the Gods. For him alone Heavenopened its treasures. Fortunate during life, he could, by virtue and the favorof Heaven, promise himself after death an eternal felicity.The Priests of the Island of Samothrace promised favorable winds andprosperous voyages to those who wer initiated. It was promised them that theCABIRI, and Castor and Pollux, the Dioscuri, should appear to them when thestorm raged, and give them calms and smooth seas: and the Scholiast ofAristophanes says that those initiated in the Mysteries there were just men,who were privileged to escape from great evils and tempests.The Initiate in the Mysteries of Orpheus, after he was purified, wasconsidered as released from the empire of evil, and transferred to a conditionof life which gave him the happiest hopes. "I have emerged from evils'? he wasmade to say, “and have attained good." Those initiated in the Mysteries ofEleusis believed that the Sun blazed with a pure splendor for them alone. And,as we see in the case of Pericles, they flattered themselves that Ceres andProserpine inspired them and gave them wisdom and counsel.Initiation dissipated errors and banished misfortune and after having filledthe heart of man with joy during life, it gave him the most blissful hopes atthe moment of da We owe it to the Goddesses of Eleusis, says Socrates, that wedo not lead the wild life of the earliest men : and to them are due theflattering hopes which initiation gives us for the moment of death and for alleternity. The benefit which we reap from these august ceremonies, saysAristides, is not only present joy, a deliverance and enfranchisement from theold ills ; but also the sweet hope which we have in` death of passing to a morefortunate state. And Theon says that participation of the Mysteries is thefinest of all things, and the source of the greatest blessings. The happinesspromised there was not limited to this mortal life ; but it extended beyond thegrave. There a new life was to commence, during which the Initiate was to enjoya bliss without alloy and without limit. The Corybantes promised eternal lifeto the Initiates of the Mysteries of Cybele and Atys.Apuleius represents Lucius, while still in the form of an ass, as addressinghis prayers to Isis, whom be speaks of as the same as Ceres, Venus, Diana, andProserpine, and as illuminating the walls of many cities simultaneously withher feminine lustre, and substituting her quivering light for the bright raysof the Sun. She appears to him in his vision as a beautiful female, "over whosedivine neck her long thick hair hung in graceful ringlets" Addressing him, shesays, "The parent of Universal nature attends thy call. The mistress of theElements, initiative germ of generations, Supreme of Deities, Queen of departedspirits, first inhabitant of Heaven, and uniform type of all the Gods andGoddesses, propitiated by thy prayers, is with thee. She governs with her nodthe luminous heights of the firmament, the salubrious breezes of the ocean; thesilent deplorable depths of the shades below ; one Sole Divintiy under mazyforms, worshipped by the different nations of the Earth under many titles, andwith various a religious rites."Directing him how to proceed, at her festival, to re-obtain his human shape,she says : "Throughout the entire course of the remainder of thy life, untilthe very last breath has vanished from thy lips, thou art devoted to my serviceUnder my protection will thy life be happy and glorious: and when, thy. daysbeing spent, thou shall descend to the shades below, and inhabitthe Elysian fields, there also, even in the subterranean hemisphere, shall thoupay frequent worship fo me, thy propitious patron : and yet further : ifthrough sedulous obedience, religious devotion to my ministry, and inviolablechastity, thou shall prove thyself a worthy object of divine favor, then shallthou fell the influence of the power that I alone possess. The number of thydays shall be prolonged beyond the ordinary decrees of fate." In the processionof the festival, Lucius saw the image of the Goddess, on either side of whichwere female attendants, that, "with ivory combs in their hands, made believe,by the motion of their arms and the divesting of their fingers, to comb andornament the Goddess' royal hair." Afterward, clad in linen robes, came theinitiated, "The hair of the women was moistened by perfume, andenveloped in a transparent covering; but the men, terrestrial stars, as itwere, of the great religion, were thoroughly shaven, and their bald heads shoneexceedingly." Afterward came the Priests, in robes of white linen. The firstbore a lamp in the form of a boat, emitting flame from an orifice in the middle: the second, a small altar : the third, a golden palmtree : and the fourthdisplayed the figure of a left hand, the palm open and expanded, "representingthereby a symbol of equity and fair-dealing, of which the left hand, as slowerthan the right hand, and more void of skill and craft, is therefore anappropriate emblem."After Lucius had, by the grace of Isis, recovered his human form, the Priestsaid to him, "Calamity hath no hold on those whom our Goddess hath chosen forher service, and whom her majesty hath vindicated." And the people declaredthat he was fortunate to be "thus after a manner born again, and at oncebetrothed to the service of the Holy Ministry."When he urged the Chief Priest to initiate him, he was answered that there wasnot "a single one among the initiated, of a mind so degraded, or so bent on hisown destruction, as, without receiving a special command from Isis, to dare toundertake her ministry rashly and sacrilegiously, and thereby commit an actcertain to bring upon himself a dreadful injury." "For" continued the ChiefPriest,.” the gates of the shades below, and the care of our life being in thehands of the Goddess,-the ceremony of initiation into the Mysteries is, as itwere, to suffer death, with the precarious chance of resuscitation. Whereforethe Goddess, in the wisdom of her divinity, hath been accustomed to select aspersons to whom the secrets of her religion can with propriety be entrusted,those who, standing as it were on the utmost limit of the course of life theyhave completed, may through her Providence be in a manner born again, andcommence the career of a new existence." When he was finally to be initiated,he was conducted to the nearest baths, and after having bathed, the Priestfirst solicited forgiveness of the Gods, and then sprinkled him all over withthe clearest and purest water, and conducted him back to the Temple; "where,"says Apuleius, "after giving me some instruction, that mortal tongue is notpermitted t0 reveal, he bade me for the succeeding ten days restrain myappetite, eat no animal food, and drink no wine."These ten days elapsed, the Priest led him into the inmost recesses of theSanctuary. "And here, studious reader," he continues "peradventure thou wilt besuffciently anxious to know all that was said and done, which, were it lawfulto divulge, I would' tell thee; and, wert thou permitted to hear, thou shouldstknow. Nevertheless, although the disclosure would affix the penalty of rashcuriosity to my tongue as well as thy ears, yet will I, for fear thou shouldstbe too long tormented with religious longing, and suffer the pain of protractedsuspense, tell the truth notwithstanding. Listen then to what I shall relate.I approached the abode of death; with my foot I pressed the threshold ofProserpine's Palace. I was transported through the elements, and conducted backagain. At midnight I saw the bright light of the sun shining. I stood in thepresence of the Gods, the Gods of Heaven and of the Shades below; ay, stoodclear and worskipped. And now have I told thee such things that, hearing, thounecessarily canst not understand ; and being beyond the comprehension of theProfane, I can enunciate without committing a crime." After night had passed,and the morning had dawned, the usual ceremonies were at an end. Then he wasconsecrated by twelve stoles being put upon him, clothed, crowned withpalmleaves, and exhibited to the people. The remainder of that day wascelebrated as his birthday and passed in festivities; and on the third dayafterward, the same religious ceremonies were repeated, including a religiousbreakfast, "followed by a final consummation of ceremonies."A year afterward, he was warned to prepare. for initiation into the Mysteriesof "the Great God, Supreme Parent of all the other Gods, the invincibleOsiris." "For," says Apuleius, "although there is a strict connection betweenthe religions of both Deities, AND EVEN THE ESSENCE OF BOTH DIVINITIES ISIDENTICAL, the ceremonies of the respective initiations are considerablydifferent."Compare with this hint the following language of the prayer of Lucius,addressed to Isis ; and we may judge what doctrines were taught in theMysteries, in regard to the Deity: "O Holy and Perpetual Preserver of the HumanRace ! ever ready to cherish mortals by Thy munificence, and to afford Thysweet maternal affection to the wretched under misfortune ; Whose bounty isnever at rest, neither by day nor by night, nor throughout the very minutestparticle of duration; Thou who stretchest forth Thy health-bearing right handover the land and over the sea for the protection of mankind, to disperse thestorms of life, to unravel the inextricable entanglement of the web of fate, tomitigate the tempests of fortune, and restrain the malignant infilences of thestars,-the Gods in Heaven adore Thee, the Gods in the shades below do Theehomage, tke stars obey Thee, the Divinities rejoice in Thee, the elements andthe revolving seasons serve Thee! At Thy nod the Winds breathe, clouds gather,seeds grow, buds germinate; in obedience to Thee the Earth revolves AND THE SUNGIVES US LIGHT. IT IS THOU WHO GOVERNEST THE UNIVERSE AND TREADEST TARTARUSUNDER THY FEET."Then he was initiated into the nocturnal Mysteries of Osiris and Serapis: andafterward into those of Ceres at Rome: but of the ceremonies in theseinitiations, Apuleius says nothing. Under the Archonship of Euclid, bastardsand slaves were excluded from initiation ; and the same exclusion obtainedagainst the Materialists or Epicureans who denied Providence and consequentlythe utility of initiation. By a natural progress, it came at length to beconsidered that the gates of Elysium would open only for the Initiates, whosesouls had been purified and regenerated in the sanctuaries. But it was neverheld, on the other hand, that initiation alone sufficed. We learn from Plato,that it was also necessary for the soul to be purified from every stain: andthat the purification necessary was such as gave virtue, truth, wisdom,strength, justice, and temperance.Entrance to the Temples was forbidden to all who had committed homicide, evenif it were involuntary. So it is stated by both Isocrates and Theon. Magiciansand Charlatans who made trickery a trade, and impostors pretending to bepossessed by evil spirits, were excluded from the sanctuaries. Every impiousperson and criminal was rejected ; and Lampridius states that before thecelebration of the Mysteries, public notice was given, that none need apply toenter but those against whom their consciences uttered no reproach, and whowere certain of their own innocence.It was required of the Initiate that his heart and hands should be free fromany stain. Porphyry says that man's soul, at death, should be enfranchised fromall the passions, from hate, envy, and the others; and, in a word, be as pureas it is required to be in the Mysteries. Of course it is not surprising thatparricides and perk jurors, and others who had committed crimes against God orman, could not be admitted.In the Mysteries of Mithras, a lecture was repeated to the Initiate on thesubject of Justice. And the great moral. Lesson of the Mysteries, to which alltheir mystic ceremonial tended, expressed in a single line by Virgil, was topractice Justice and revere the Deity, -thus recalling men to justice, byconnecting it with the justice of the Gods, who require it and punish itsinfraction. The Initiate could aspire to the favors of the Gods, only becauseand while he respected the rights of society and those of humanity. "The sun,"says the chorus of Initiates in Aristophanes, "burns with a pure light for usalone, who, admitted to the' Mysteries, observe the laws of piety in ourintercourse with strangers and our fellow-citizens." The rewards of initiationwere attached to the practice of the, social virtues. It was not enough to beinitiated merely. It was necessary to be faithful to the laws of initiation,which imposed on men duties in regard to their kind. Bacchus allowed none toparticipate in his Mysteries, but men who performed to the rules of piety andjustice. Sensibility, above all, and compassion for the misfortunes of others,were precious virtues, which initiation strove to encourage. "Nature," saysJuvenal "has created us compassionate, since it has endowed us with tears.Sensibility is the most admirable of our senses. What man is truly worthy ofthe torch of the Mysteries; who such as the Priest of Ceres requires him to be,if he regards the misfortunes of others as wholly foreign to himself?"All who had not used their endeavors to defeat a conspiracy,and those who had on the contrary fomented one; those citizens who had betrayedtheir country, who had surrendered an advantageous post or place, or thevessels of the State, to the enemy; all who had supplied the enemy with money;and in general, all who had come short of their duties as honest men and goodcitizens., were excluded from the Mysteries of Eleusis. To be admitted there,one must have lived equitably, and with suffcient good fortune not to beregarded as hated by the Gods.Thus the Society of the Initiates was, in its principle, and according to thetrue purpose of its institution, a society of virtuous men, who labored to freetheir souls from the tyranny of the passions, and to develop the germ of allthe social virtues, And this was the meaning of the idea, afterwardmisunderstood, that entry into Elysium was only allowed to the Initiates :because entrance to the sanctuaries was allowed to the virtuous only, andElysium was created for virtuous souls alone.The precise nature and details of the doctrines as to a future life, andrewards and punishments there, developed in the Mysteries, is in a measureuncertain. Little direct information in regard to it has corme down to us. Nodoubt, in the ceremonies, there was a scenic representation of Tantalus and thejudgment of the dead, resembling that which we find in Virgil : but there is aslittle doubt ihat these representations were explained to be allegorical. It isnot our purpose here to repeat the descriptions given We are only concernedwith the great fact that the Mysteries taught the doctrine of the soul'simmortality, and that, in some shape, suffering, pain, remorse, and agony, everfollow sin as its consequences.Human ceremonies are indeed but imperfect symbols; and the alternate baptismsin fire and iwater intended to purify us into immortality, are ever in, thisworld interrupted at the moment of their anticipated completion. Life its amirror which reflects only to deceive, a tissue perpetually. Interrupted andbroken, an urn forever fed, yet never ful1.All initiation is but introductory to the great change of death. Baptism,anointing, embalming, obsequies by burial or fire, are preparatory symbols,like the initiation of Hercules before descending to the Shades, pointing outthe mental change which ought to prece4e the renewal of existence. Death is thetrue initiation, to which sleep is the introductory or minor mystery. It is thefinal rite which united the Egyptian with his God, and which opens the samepromise to all who are duly prepared for it.The body was deemed a prison for the soul; but the latter was not condemned toeternal banishment and imprisonment. The Father of the Worlds permits itschains to be broken, and has provided in the course of Nature the means of itsescape. It was a doctrine of immemorial antiquity, shared alike by Egyptians,Pythagoreans, the Orphici, and by that characteristic Bacchus Sage, "thePreceptor of the Soul," Silence, that death is far better than life; that thereal death belongs to those who on earth are immersed in the Lethe of itspassions and fascinations, and that the true life commences only when the soulis emancipated for its return.And in this sense, as presiding over life and death, Dionysus is in thehighest sense the LIBERATOR : Since, like Osiris, he frees the soul, and guidesit in its migrations beyond the grave, preserving it from the risk of againfalling under the slavery of matter or of some inferior animal form, thepurgatory of Metempsychosis ; and exalting and perfecting its nature throughthe purifying discipline of his Mysteries. "The great consummation of allphilosophy," said Socrates, professedly quoting from traditional and mysticsources, "is Death: He who pursues philosophy aright, is studying how to die."All soul is part of the Universal Soul, whose totality is Dionysus; and it istherefore he who, as Spirit of Spirits, leads back the vagrant spirit to itshome, and accompanies it through the purifying processes, both real andsymbolical, of its earthly thansit. He is therefore emphatically the Mystic orHierophant, the great Spiritual Mediator of Greek religion.The human soul is itself demonios a God withers the mind, capable through itsown power of rivaling the canonization of the Hero, of making itself immortalby the practice of the good, and the contemplation of the beautiful and true.The removal to the Happy Islands could only be understood mythically;everything earthly must die; Man, like OEdipus, is wounded from his birth, hisrealm elysium can exist only beyond the grave. Dionysus died and descended tothe shades. His passion was the great Secret of the Mysteries ; as Death is theGrand Mystery of existence. His death, typical of Nature's Death, or of herperiodical decay and restoration, eras one of the many symbols of thepalingenesia or second birth of man.Man descended from the elemental Forces or Titans [Elohim], who fed on thebody of the Pantheistic Deity creating the Universe by self-sacrifice,commemorates in sacramental observance this mysterious passion ; and whilepartaking of the raw flesh of the victim, seems to be invigorated by a freshdraught from the fountain of unversal life, to receive a new pledge ofregenerated existence. Death is the inseparable antecedent of life; the seedlies in order to produce the plant, and earth ishelf is rent asunder and diesat the birth of Dionusos. Hence the significancy of the phallus, or of itsinoffensive substitute, the obelisk, rising as an emblem of resurrection by thetomb of buried Deity at Lerna or it Sais.Dionysus-Orpheus descended to the Shades to recover the lost Virgin of theZodiac, to bring back his mother to the sky as Thyone; or what has the samemeaning, to consummate his eventful marriage with Persephone, thereby securing,like the nuptials of his father with Semele or Danae, the perpetuity of Nature.His under-earth office is the depression of the year, the wintry aspect in thealternations of bull and serpent, whose united` series makes up the continuityof Time, and in whirls, physically speaking, the stash and dark are ever theparents of the beautiful and bright.the Mysteries : the human sufferer was consoled by witnessing the severertrials of the Gods; and the vicissitudes of life and death, expressed byapposite symbols, such as the sacrifice or submission of the Bull, theextinction and re-illumination of the torch, excited corresponding emotions ofalternate grief and joy, that play of passion which was present at the originof Nature, and which accompanies all her changes.The greater Eleusiniae were celebrated in the month Boedromion, when the seedwas buried in the ground, and when the year, verging to its decline, disposesthe mind to serious reflection. The first days of the ceremonial were passed insorrow and anxious silence, in fasting and expiatory or lustral offices. On asudden, the scene was changed : sorrow and lamentation were discarded, the gladname of Bacchus passed from mouth to mouth, the image of the God, crowned withmyrtle and bearing a lighted torch, was borne in ,joyful procession from theCeramicus to Eleusis, where, during thee ensuing night, the initiation wascompleted by an imposing revelation. The first scene was in the paonaos, orouter court of the sacred enclosure, where amidst utter darkness, or while themeditating God, the star illuminating the Nocturnal Mystery, alone carried anunextinguished torch, the candidates were overawed with terrific sounds andnoises, while they painfully groped their way, as in the gloomy cavern of thesoul's sub lunar migration ; a scene justly compared to the passage of theValley of the Shadow of Death. For by the immutable law exemplified in thetrials of Psyche, man must pass through the terrors of the under-world, beforehe can reach the height of Heaven. At length the gates of the adytum werethrown open, a supernatural light streamed from the illuminated statue 395of the Goddess, and enchanting sights and sounds, mingled with songs anddances, exalted the communicant to a rapture of supreme felicity, realizing, asfar as sensuous imagery could depict, the anticipated reunion with the Gods.In the dearth of direct evidence as to the detail of the ceremonies enacted,or of the meanings connected with them, their tendency must be inferred fromthe characteristics of the contemplated deities with their accessory symbolsand mythi, or from direct testimony as to the value of theMysteries generally. The ordinary phenomena of vegetation, the death of theseed ingiving birth to the plant, connecting the sublimest hopes with the plainestoccurrences, was the simple yet beautiful formula assumed by the great mysteryin almost all religions, from the Zend-Avesta to the Gospel. As Proserpine, thedivine power is as the seed decaying and destroyed; as Artemis, she is theprinciple of its destruction ; but Artemis Proserpine is also Core Soteria, theSaviour, who leads the Spirits of Hercules and Hyacinthus to Heaven. Many otheremblems were employed in the Mysteries,-as the dove, the myrtle-wreath, andothers, all significant of life rising. out of death, and of the equivocalcondition of dying yet immortal man.The horrors and punishments of Tantalus, as described in the Phaedo and theAEneid, with a11 the ceremonies of the judgments of Minos, Eacus, andRhadamanthus, were represented, sometimes more and sometimes less fully, in theMysteries; in order to impress upon the minds of the Initiates this greatlesson,-that we should be ever prepared to appear before the Supreme Judge,with a heart pure and spotless ; as Socrates teaches in the Gorgias. For thesoul stained with crimes, he says, to descend to the Shades, is the bitterestill. To adhere to Justice and Wisdom, Plato holds, is our duty, that we maysome day take that lofty road that leads toward the heavens, and avoid most of. the evils to which the soul is exposed in its subterranean journey of athousand years. And so in the Phaedo, Socrates teaches that we should seek herebelow to free our soul of its passions, in order to be ready to enter ourappearance, whenever Destiny summons us to the Shades.Thus the Mysteries inculcated a great moral truth, veiled with a fable of hugeproportions and the appliances of an impressive spectacle, to ,which, exhibitedin the sanctuaries art and natural magic lent all they had that was imposing.They sought to strengthen men against the horrors of death and the fearful ideaof utter annihilation. Death, says the author of the dialogue, entitledAxiochus, included in the works of Plato, is but a passage to a happier state;but one must have lived well, to attain that most fortunate result. So that thedoctrine of the immortality of the soul was consoling to the virtuous andreligious man alone; while to all others it came with menaces and despair,surrounding them with" terrors and alarms that disturbed their repose duringall their life.For the material horrors of Tantalus, allegorical to the Initiate, were realto the mass of the Profane ; nor in latter times, did, perhaps many Iiiitiatesread rightly the allebaory. The triple-walled prison, which the condemned soulfirst met, round which swelled and surged the fiery waves of Phlegethon,wherein rolled roaring, huge, blazing rocks ; the great gate with columns ofadamant, which none save the Gods could crush; Tisiphone, their warder, withher bloody robes ; the lash resounding on the mangled bodies of the miserableunfortunates, their plaintive groans, mingled in horrid 'harmony with theclashing of their chains; the Furies, lashing the guilty with their snakes; theawful abyss where Hydra howls with its hundred heads, greedy to devour; Tityus,prostrate, and his entrails fed upon by the cruel vulture; Sisyphus, everrolling his rock; Ixion on his wheel; Tantalus tortured by eternal thirst andhunger, in the midst of water and with delicious fruits touching his head ; thedaughters, of Danaus at their eternal, fruitless task ; beasts biting andvenomous reptiles stinging ; and devouring flame eternally consuming bodiesever renewed in endless agony; all these sternly impressed upon the people theterrible consequences of sin and vice, and urged them to pursue the paths ofhonesty and virtue.And if , in the ceremonies of the Mysteries, these material horrors wereexplained to the Initiates as mere symbols of the unimaginable torture,remorse, and agony that would rend the immaterial soul and rack the immortalspirit, they were feeble and insufficient in the same mode and measure only, asall material images and symbols fall short of that which is beyond thecognizance of our senses : and the grave Hierophant, the imagery, thepaintings, the dramatic horrors, the funeral sacrifices, the august rnysteries,the solemn silence of the sanctuaries, were none the less impressive, becausethey were known to be but symbols, that` with material shows and images madethe imagination to be the teacher of the intellect.expiation; and the tests of water, air, and flre were represented ; by meansof which, during the march of many years, the soul could be purified, and risetoward the ethereal regions ; that ascent being more or less tedious andlaborious, according as each soul was more or less clogged by the grossimpediments ,of its sins and vices. Herein was shadowed forth, (how distinctlytaught the Initiates we know not), the doctrine that pain and sorrow,misfortune and remorse, are the inevitable consequences that flow from sin andvice, as effect flows from cause; that by each sin and every act of vice thesoul drops back and loses ground in its advance toward perfection : and thatthe ground so, lost is and will be in reality never so recovered as that thesin shall be as if it never had been committed; but that throughout all theeternity of its existence', each soul shall be conscious that every act of viceor baseness it did on earth has made the distance greater between itself andultimate perfection.We see this truth glimmering in the doctrine, taught in the Mysteries, thatthough slight and ordinary offences could be expiated by penances, repentance,acts of beneficence, and prayers, grave crimes were mortal sins, beyond thereach of all such remedies. Eleusis closed her gates against Nero: and thePagan Priests told Constantine that among all their modes of expiation therewas none so potent as could wash from his soul the dark spots left by themurder of his wife, and his multiplied perjuries and assassinations.The object of the ancient initiations being to ameliorate mankind and toperfect the intellectual part of man, the nature of the human soul, its origin,its destination, its relations to the body and to universal nature, all formedpart of the mystic science; and to them in part the lessons given to theInitiate were directed. For it was believed that initiation tended to hisperfection, and to preventing ,the divine part within him, overloaded with,matter gross and earthy, from being plunged into gloom, and impeded in itsreturn to the Deity. The soul, with them, was not a mere conception orabstraction ; but a reality including in itself life and thought; or, rather,of whose essence it was to live and think. It was material ; but not brute,inert, inactive, lifeless, motionless, formless, lightless matter. -It was heldto be active, reasoning, thinking; its natural home in the highest regions ofthe Universe, whence it descended to illuminate, give form and movement to,vivify, animate, and carry with itself the baser matter; and whither itunceasingly tends to reascend, when and as soon as it can free itself from itsconnection with that matter. From that substance, divine, infinitely .delicateand active, essentially luminous, the souls of men were formed, and by italone, uniting with and organizing their bodies, men lived.This was the doctrine of Pythagoras, who learned it when he received theEgyptian Mysteries : and it was the doctrine of all who, by means of theceremonial of initiation, thought to purify the soul. Virgil makes the spiritof Archives teach it to AEneas: and all the expiations and lustrations vised inthe 113`steries were but symbols of those intellectual olies by which the soulwas to be purged of its vice-spots and stains, and freed of the encumbrance ofits earthly prison, so that it might rise unimpeded to the source from which itcame.Hence sprung the doctrine of the transmigration of souls; which Pythagorastaught as an allegory, and those who came after him received literally. Plato,like him, drew, his doctrines from the East and the Mysteries, and undertook totranslate the language of the symbols used there, into that of Philosophy ; andto prove by argument and philosophical deduction, what, felt by theconsciousness, the Mysteries taught by Symbols as an indisputable fact,-theimmortality of the soul. Cicero did the same ; and followed the Mysteries inteaching that the Gods were but mortal men, who for their great virtues andsignal services had deserved that their souls should, after death, be raised tothat lofty rank.It being taught in the Mysteries, either by way of allegory, the meaning ofwhich was not made known except to a select few, or, perhaps only at a laterday, as an actual reality, that the souls of the vicious dead passed into thebodies of those animals to whose nature their vices had most affinity, it wasalso taught that the soul could avoid these transmigrations, often successiveand numerous, by the practice of virtue, which would acquit it of thrum, freeit from the circle of successive generations, and restore it at once to itssource. Hence nothing was so ardently prayed far by the Initiates, saysProclus, as this happy fortune, which, delivering them from the empire of Evil,would restore them to their true life, and conduct them to the place of finalrest. To this doctrine probably referred those figures of animals and monsterswhich were exhibited to the Initiate, before allowing him to see the sacredlight for which he sighed., Plato says, that souls will not reach the term oftheir ills, until the revolutions of the world have restored them to theirprimitive condition, and purified them from the stains which they havecontracted by the contagion of fire, earth, and air. And he held that theycould not be allowed to enter Heaven, until they had distinguished themselvesby the practice of virtue in some one of three several bodies. The Manicheansallowed five: Pindar, the same. number as Plato; as did the Jews. And Cicerosays, that the ancient soothsayers, and the interpolators of the will of theGods, in their religious ceremonies and initiations, taught that we expiatehere below the crimes committed in a prior life ; and for that are born. It wastaught in these Mysteries, that the soul passes' through several states, andthat the pains and sorrows of this life are an expiation of prior faults.This doctrine of transmigration of souls obtained, as Porphyry informs us,among the Persians and Magi. It was held in the East and the West, and thatfrom the remotest antiquity. Herodotus found, it among the Egyptians, who madethe term of the circle of migrations from one human body, through animals,fishes, and birds, to another human body,' three thousand years. Empedocleseven held that souls went into plants Of these, the laurel was the noblest, asof animals the lion; both being consecrated to the Sun, to which, it was heldin the Orient, virtuous souls were to return. The Curds, the Chinese, theCabbalists, all held the same doctrine. So Origin held, and the BishopSynesius, the latter of whom had been initiated, and who thus prayed to God :"O Father, grant that my soul, reunited to the light, may not be plunged againinto the defilements of earth," So the Gnostics held; and even the Disciples ofChrist inquired if the man who was born blind, was not so punished for some sinthat he had committed before his birth.Virgil, in the celebrated allegory in which he develops the doctrines taughtin the Mysteries, enunciated the doctrine, held by" most of the ancientphilosophers, of the pre-existence of `souls, in the eternal fire from whichthey emanate; that fire which animates the stars, and circulates in every partof Nature: and the purifications of the soul, by fire, water, and air, of whichhe speaks, and which three modes were employed in the Mysteries of Bacchus,were symbols of the passage of the soul into different bodies.The relations of the human soul with the rest of nature were a chief object ofthe science of the Mysteries. The man was there brought face to face withentire nature, The world, and the spherical envelope that surrounds it, wererepresented by a mystic egg, by the side of the image of the Sun-God whoseMysteries were celebrated. The famous Orphic egg was consecrated to Bacchus inhis Mysteries. It was, says Plutarch, an. image of the Universe, which,engenders everything, and contains everything in its bosom."`Consult," saysMacrobius, "the Initiates of the? Mysteries of Bacchus, who honor with specialveneration the sacred egg." The rounded and almost spherical form of its shell,he says, which encloses it on every side, and confines within itself theprinciples of life, is a symbolic image of the world ; and the world is theuniversal principle of all things.This symbol was borrowed from the Egyptians, who also consecrated the egg toOsiris, germ of Light, himself born, sans Diodorus, from that famous egg. InThebes, in Upper Egypt, he was represented as emitting it from his mouth, andcausing to issue from it the first principle of heat and light, or theFire-God, Vulcan, or Phtha. We find this egg even in Japan, between the hornsof the famous Mithriac Bull,- whose attributes Osiris, Apis, and Bacchus allborrowed.Orpheus, author of the Grecian Mysteries, which he carried from Egypt `toGreece, consecrated this symbol : and taught that matter, untreated andinformers, existed from all eternity, unorganized, as chaos ; containing initself the Principles of all Existences confused and intermingled, light withdarkness, the dry with the humid, heat with cold; from which, it after longages :eking the shape of an immense egg, issued the purest matter, or Firstsubstance, and the residue was divided into the four elements, From whichproceeded heaven and earth and all things else. This Grand Cosmogonic idea hetaught in the Mysteries; and thus the Hierophant explained the meaning of themystic egg, seen by the initiates in the Sanctuary.Thus entire Nature, in her primitive organization, was presented 401 to himwhom it was wished to instruct in her secrets and initiate in her mysteries ;and Clement of Alexandria might well say that initiation was a real physiology.So Phanes, the Light-God, in the Mysteries of the New Orphics, emerged fromthe egg of chaos: and the Persians had the great egg of Ormuzd. AndSanchoniathon tells us that in the Phoenician theology, the matter of chaostook the form of an egg; and he adds: "Such ,are the lessons which the Son ofThabion~ first Hierophant of the Phoenicians,. turned into allegories, in whichphysics and astronomy intermingled, and which he taught to the otherHierophants, whose duty it was to preside at orgies and initiations ; and who,seeking to excite the astonishment and admiration of mortals, faithfullytransmitted these things to their successors and the Initiates."In the Mysteries was also taught the division of the Universal Cause into anActive and a Passive cause; of which two, Osiris and Isis,-the heavens and theearth were symbols. These two .First Causes, into which it was held that thegreat Universal First Cause at the beginning of things divided itself, were thetwo great Divinities, whose worship was, according to Varro, inculcated uponthe Initiates at Samothrace. "As is taught," he says, "in the initiation intothe Mysteries at Samothrace, Heaven and Earth are regarded as the two firstDivinities. They are the potent Gods worshipped in that Island, and whosenarr4es are consecrated in the books of our Augurs. One of them is male and theother female; and they bear the same relation to each other as the soul does tothe body, humidity to dryness." The Curates, in Crete, had built an altar toHeaven and to Earth; whose Mysteries they celebrated at Gnossus, in a cypressgrove.These two Divinities, the Active and Passive Principles of theUniverse, were commonly symbolized by the generative pasts of man and woman ;to which, in remote ayes, no idea of indecency was attached ; the Phallus andCteis, emblems of generation and production, and which, as such, appeared inthe Mysteries. The Indian Lingam was the union of both, as were the boat andmast and the point within a circle: all of which expressed the samephilosophical idea as to the Union of the two great Causes of Nature, whichconcur, one actively and the other passively, in the generation of all beings :which were symbolized by what we now term Gemini, the Twos, at that remoteperiod when the Sun was in that Sign at the Vernal Equinox, and when they wereMale and Female; and of which the Phallus was perhaps taken from the generativeorgan of the Bull, when about twenty-five hundred years before our era heopened that equinox, and became to the Ancient World the symbol of the creativeand generative Power.The Initiates at Eleusis, commenced, Process says, by invoking the two greatcauses of nature, the Heavens and the Earth, on which in succession they fixedtheir eyes, addressing to each a prayer. And they deemed it their duty to doso, he adds, because they saw in them the Father and Mother of all generations.The concourse of these two agents of the Universe was termed in theologicallanguage a marriage. Tertullian, accusing the Valentinians of having borrowedthese symbols from the Mysteries of Eleusis, yet admits that in those Mysteriesthey were explained in a manner consistent with decency, as representing thepowers of nature. He was too little of a philosopher to comprehend the sublimeesoteric meaning of these embalms, which will, if you advance, in other Degreesbe unfolded to you.` The Christian Fathers contented themselves with reviling and ridiculing theuse of these emblems. But as they in the earlier' times created no indecentideas, and were worn alike by the most innocent youths and virtuous women, itwill be far wiser for us to seek to penetrate their meaning. Not only theEgyptians, says Diodorus Sinuous, but every other people that consecrate thissymbol (the Phallus), deem that they thereby do honor to the Active ,Force ofthe universal generation of all living things. For the same reason, as we learnfrom the geographer Ptolemy, it was revered among the Assyrians and Persians.Proclus remarks that , in the distribution of the Zodiac among she twelve greatDivinities, by ancient astrology, six signs were assigned to the male and sixto the female principle.There is another division of nature, which has in all ages struck all men, andwhich was not forgotten in the Mysteries; that of Light and Darkness, Day andNight, Good and Evil ; which mingle with, and clash against, and pursue or arepursued by eaeh other throughout the Universe. The Great Symbolic Eggdistinctly reminded the Initiates of this great division of the world.plutarch, treating of the dogma of a Providence, and of that of the twoprinciples of Light and Darkness, which he regarded as the basis of the AncientTheology, of the Orgies and the Mysteries, as well among the Greeks as theBarbarians,-a doctrine whose origin, according to him, is lost in the night oftime,-cites, in support of his opinion, the famous Mystic Egg of the disciplesof Zoroaster and the Initiates in the Mysteries of Mithras.To the Initiates in the Mysteries of Eleusis was exhibited the spectacle ofthese two principles, in the successive scenes of Darkness and Light whichpassed before their eyes. To the profoundest darkness, accompanied withillusions and horrid phantoms, succeeded the most brilliant light, whosesplendor blazed round the statue of the Goddess. The candidate, says DionChrysostomus, passed into a 'mysterious temple, of astonishing magnitude andbeauty, where were exhibited to him many mystic scenes; where his ears werestunned with many voices ; and where Darkness and Light successively passedbefore him. And Themistius in like manner describes the Initiate, when about toenter into that part of the sanctuary tenanted by the Goddess, as filled withfear and religious awe, wavering, uncertain in what direction to advancethrough the profound darkness that envelopes him. But when the Hierophant hasopened the entrance to the inmost sanctuary, and removed the robe that hidesthe Goddess, he exhibits her to the Initiate, resplendent with divine light.The thick `shadow and gloomy atmosphere which had enthroned the candidatevanish ; he is filled with a vivid and glowing enthusiasm, that lifts his soulout of the profound dejection in which it was , plunged ; ant the purest lightsucceeds to the thickest darkness.In a fragment of the same writer, preserved by Stobaeus, we learn that theInitiate, up to the moment when his initiation is to be consummated, is alarmedby every kind of sight: that astonishment and terror take his soul captive; hetrembles; cold sweat flows from his body; until the moment when the Light isshown him,-a most astoundihg Light,-th? brilliant scene of Elysium, where hesees charming meadows overarched by a clear sky, and festivals celebrated bydances ; where he hears harmonious voices, and the majestic chants of theHierophants; and views the sacred spectacles. Then, absolutely free, andenfranchised from the dominion of all ills, he mingles with the crowd ofInitiates, and, crowned with flowers, celebrates with them the holy orgies,' inthe brilliant realms of ether, and the dwelling-place of Ormuzd.In the Mysteries of Isis, the candidate first passed through the dark valleyof the shadow of death; then into a place representing the elements orsublunary world, where the two principles clash and contend ; and was finallyadmitted to a luminous region, where the sun, with his most brilliant light,put to rout the shades of night. Then he himself put on the costume of theSun-God, or the Visible Source o'f Ethereal Light, in whose Mysteries he wasinitiated ; and passed from the empire of darkness to that of light. Afterhaving set his feet on the threshold of the palace of Pluto, he ascended to theEmpyrean, to the bosom of the Eternal Principle of Light of the Universe, fromwhich all souls and intelligences emanate.Plutarch admits that this theory of two Principles was the basis of all theMysteries, and consecrated in the religious ceremonies and Mysteries of Greece.Osiris and Typhon, Ormuzd and Ahriman, Bacchus and the Titans and Giants, allrepresented these principles. Phanes, the luminous God that issued from theSacred Egg, and Night, bore the scepters in the Mysteries of the New Bacchus.Night and Day were two of the eight Gods adored in the Mysteries of Osiris. Thesojourn of Proserpine and also of Adonis, during six months of each year in theupper world, abode of light, and six months in the lower or abode of darkness,allegorically represented the same division of the Universe.The connection of the-different initiations with the Equinoxes which separatethe Empire of the Nights from that of the Days, and fix the moment when one ofthese principles begins to prevail over the other, shows that the Mysteriesreferred to the continual contest between the two principles of light anddarkness, each alternately victor and vanquished. The very object proposed bythem shows that their basis was the theory of the two principles and theirrelations with the soul. "We celebrate the august Mysteries of Ceres andProserpine," says the Emperor Julian, "at the Autumnal Equinox, to obtain ofthe Gods that the soul may not experience the malignant action of the Power,ofDarkness that is then about to have sway and rule in Nature." Sallust thePhilosopher makes almost the same remark as to the relations of the soul withthe periodical march of light and darkness, during an annual revolution ; andassures us that the mysterious festivals of Greece related to the same. And inall the explanations given by Macrobius of the Sacred Fables in regard to thesun, adored under the names of Osiris, Horus, Adonis, Atys, Bacchus, etc.. weinvariably see that they refer to the theory of the two Principles, Light andDarkness, and the triumphs gained by one over the other. In April wascelebrated the first triumph obtained by the light of day over the length ofthe nights ; and the ceremonies of mourning and rejoicing had, Macrobius says,as their object the vicissitudes of the annual administration of the world.This brings us naturally to the tragic portion of these religious' scenes, andto the allegorical history of the different adventures of the Principle, Light,victor and vanquished by turns, in the combats waged with Darkness during eachannual period. Here we reach the most mysterious part of the ancientinitiations, and that most interesting to the Mason who laments the death ofhis Grand Master Khir-Om. Over it Herodotus throws the august veil of mysteryand silence. Speaking of the Temple of Minerva, or of that Isis who was styledthe Mother of the Sun-God, and whose Mysteries were termed Isiac, at Sais, hespecks of a Tomb in the Temple, in the rear of the Chapel and against the well; and says, "It is the tomb of a man, whose name respect requires me toconceal. Within the Temple were great obelisks of stone [phalli], and acircular lake paved with stones and revetted with a parapet. It seemed to me aslarge as that at Delos" [there the Mysteries of Apollo were celebrated]. "Inthis lake the Egyptians celebrate, during the night, what they style theMysteries, in which are represented the sufferings of the God of whom I havespoken above." . This God was Osiris, put to death by Typhon, and who descendedto the Shades and was restored to life; of which he had spoken before.We are reminded, by this passage, of the Tomb of Khir-Om, his death, and hisrising from the grave, symbolical of restoration of life ; and also of thebrazen Sea in the Temple at Jerusalem. Herodotus adds : "I impose upon myself aprofound, silence in regard to these Mysteries, with most of which I amacquainted. As little will I speak of the initiations of Ceres, known among theGreeks as Thesmophoria. What I shall say will not violate the respect which Iowe to religion."Athenagoras quotes this passage to show that not only the Statue but the Tombof Osiris was exhibited in Egypt, and a tragic representation of hissufferings; and remarks that the Egyptians had mourning ceremonies in honor oftheir Gods, whose deaths they, Lamented ; and to whom they afterward sacrificedas having It is, however, not difficult, combining the different rays of lightthat emanate from the different Sanctuaries, to learn the genius and the objectof these secret ceremonies. We have hints, and not details.We know that the Egyptians worshipped the Sun, under the name of Osiris. Themisfortunes and tragical death of this God . were an allegory relating to theSun. Typhon, like Ahriman, represented Darkness. The sufferings and death ofOsiris in the Mysteries of the Night were a mystic image of the phenomena ofNature, and the conflict of the two great Principle which share the empire ofNature, and most infilenced our souls. the sun is neither born, dies, nor israised to life: and the recital of these events was but an allegory, veiling a.higher truth Horus, son of Isis, and the same as Apollo or the Sun, also diedand was restored again to, life~ and to his mother; and the priests ,of Isiscelebrated these great events by mourning and joyous festival succeeding eachother.In the Mysteries of Phoenicia, established in honor of Thammuz or Adonis, alsothe Sun, the spectacle of his death and resurrection was exhibited to theInitiates. As we learn from Meursius and Plutarch, a figure was exhibitedrepresenting the corpse of a young man. Flowers were strewed upon his body, thewomen mourned for him ; a tomb was erected to him. And these feasts, as welearn from Plutarch and Ovid, passed into Greece.God was lamented, and his resurrection was celebrated with the mostenthusiastic expressions of joy. A corpse, we. learn from Julian , was shownthe Initiates, representing Mithras dead; and afterward his resurrection wasannounced; and they were then invited to rejoice that the dead God was restoredto life, and had by means of his sufferings secured their salvation. Threemonths before, his birth had been celebrated, under the emblem of an infant,born on the.25th of December, or the eighth day before the Calends of January.In Greece, in the mysteries of the same God, honored under the name ofBacchus, a representation was given of his death, slain by the Titans ; of hisdescent into hell, his ,subsequent resurrection, and his return toward hisPrinciple or the pure abode whence he had descended to unite himself withmatter. In the islands of Chios and Tenedos, his death was represented by thesacrifice of a man,` actually immolated.The mutilation and sufferings of the same Sun-God, honored in Phrygia underthe name of Atys, caused the tragic scenes that were, as we learn from DiodorusSiculus, represented annually in the Mysteries of Cybele, mother of the Gods.An image was borne there, representing the corpse of a young man, over whosetomb tears were shed, and to whom funeral honors were paid.At Samothrace, in the Mysteries of the Cabiri or great Gods, a representationwas given of the death of one if them. This name was given to the Sun, becausethe Ancient Astronomers gave the name of Gods Cabiri, and of Samothrace to thetwo Gods in the Constellation Gemini; whom others term Apollo and Hercules, twonames of the Sun.. Athenion says that the young Cabirus so slain was the sameas the Dionysus or Bacchus of the Greeks. The Pelasgi, ancient inhabitants ofGreece, and who settled Samothrace, celebrated these Mysteries, whose origin isunknown : and they worshipped Castor and Pollux as patrons of navigation.The tomb of Apollo was at Delphi, where his body was laid, after Python, thePolar Serpent that annually heralds the coming of autumn, cold, darkness, andwinter, had slain him, and over whom. the God triumphs, on the 25th of March,on his return to the lamb of the Vernal Equinox.In Crete, Jupiter Ammon, on the Sun in Aries, painted with the attributes ofthat equinoctial sign, the Ram or Lamb ;-that Ammon who, Martianus Copellasays, is the same as Osiris, Adoni, Adonis, Atys, and the other Sun-Gods,-hadalso a tomb, and a religious initiation ; one of the principal ceremonies ofwhi`ch consisted in clothing the Initiate with the skin of a white lamb. And inthis we see the origin of the apron of white sheep-skin, used in Masonry.All these deaths and resurrections, these funeral emblems, these anniversariesof mourning and joy, these cenotaphs raised in different places to the Sun-God,honored under different names, had but a single object, the allegoricalnarration of the events which happened here below-to the Light of Nature, thatsacred fire from which our souls were deemed to emanate, warring with matterand the dark Principle resident therein, ever at variance with the Principle ofGood and Light poured upon itself by the Supreme Divinity. All these Mysteries,says Clement of Alexandria, displaying to us murders and tombs alone, all thesereligious tragedies, had a common basis, variously ornamented : and that basiswas the fictitious death and resurrection of the Sun, Soul of the World,principle of life and movement in the Sublunary World, and source of ourintelligences, which are but a portion of the Eternal Light blazing in thatStar, their chief center.It was in the Sun that Souls, it was said, were purified: and to it theyrepaired. It was one of the gates of the soul, through which the theologians,says Porphyry, say that it re-ascends toward the home of Light and the Good.Wherefore, in the Mysteries of Eleusis, the Dadoukos (the first officer afterthe Hierophant, who represented the Grand Demiourgos or Maker of the Universe),who was casted in the interior of the Temple, and there received thecandidates, represented the Sun.It was also held that the vicissitudes experienced by the Father of Light hadan influence on the destiny of souls; which, of the same substance as he,shared his fortunes. This we learn from the Emperor Julian and Sallust thePhilosopher. They are afflicted when he suffers : they rejoice when he triumphsover the Power of Darkness which opposes his sway and hinders the happiness ofSouls, to whom nothing is so terrible as darkness. The fruit of the sufferingsof the God, father of light and $ouls, slain.by the Chief of the Powers ofDarkness, and again restored to life, was received in the Mysteries. "His deathworks your Salvation ;" said the High Priest of Mithras. That was the greatsecret of this religious tragedy, and its expected fruit ;-the resurrection ofa God, who, repossessing Himself of His dominion over Darkness, shouldassociate with Him in His triumph those virtuous Souls that by their puritywere worthy to share His glory; and that strove not against the divine forcethat drew them to Him, when, He had thus conquered.To the Initiate were also displayed the spectacles of the chief agents of theUniversal Cause, and of the distribution of the world, in the detail of itsparts arranged in most regular order. The Universe itself supplied man with themodel of the first Temple reared to the Divinity. The arrangement of the Templeof Solomon, the symbolic ornaments which formed its chief decorations, and thedress of the High Priest,-all, as Clement of Alexandria, Josephus and Philostate, had reference to ,the order of the world. Clement informs us that theTemple contained many emblems of the Seasons, the Sun, the Moon, the planets,the constellations Ursa Major and Minor, the zodiac, the elements, and theother parts of the world.'Josephus, in his description of the High Priest's Vestments, protestingagainst the charge of impiety brought against the He brews by other nati~ons,for condemning the Heathen Divinities, declares it false, because, in theconstruction of the Tabernacle, in the vestments of the Sacrificers, and in theSacred vessels, the whole World was in some sort represented. Of the threeparts, he says, into which the Temple was divided, two represent Earth and Sea,open to all men, and the third, Heaven, God's dwelling-place, reserved for Himalone. The twelve loaves of Shew-bread signify the twelve months of the year.The Candlestick represented the twelve signs through which the Seven Planetsrun their courses; and the seven lights, those planets; the veils, of fourcolors, the four elements; the tunic of the High Priest, the earth; theHyacinth, nearly blue, the Heavens ; the. aphid, of four colors, the whole ofnature; the gold, Light; the breast-plate, in the middle, this earth in thecenter of the world ; the two Sardonyxes, used as clasps, the Sun and Moon ;and the twelve precious stones of the breast-plate arranged by threes, like theSeasons, the twelve months, and the twelve signs of the zodiac. Even the loaveswere arranged in two groups of six, like the zodiacal signs above and below theEquator. Clement, the learned Bishop of Alexandria, and Philo, adopt all theseexplanations.Hermes calls the Zodiac, the Grent Tent,-Tabernaculum. In the Royal ArchDegree of the American Rite, the Tabernacle has four veils, of differentcolors, to each of which. Belongs a banner. the colors of the four are White,Blue, Crimson, and Purple, and the banners bear the images of the Bull, theLion, the Man, ant the Eagle, the Constellations answering 2500 years beforeour era to the Equinoctial and Solstitial points : to which belong four stars,aldebaran, Regulus, Fomalhaut, and Antares. At each of these veils there arethree words : and to each division of the Zodiac, belonging to each of theseStars, are three Signs. The four signs,Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius, were termed the fixed signs, and areappropriately assigned to the four veils.`SO the Cherubim, according to Clement and Philo,- represented the twohemispheres ; their wings, the rapid course of the firmament, and of time whichrevolves in the Zodiac. "For the Heavens fly;" says Philo, speaking of thewings of the Cherubim : which were winged representations of the Lion, theBull, the Eagle, and the Man; of two of which, the human-headed, winged bullsand lions, so many have been found at Nimrod ; adopted as beneficent symbols,when the Sun entered Taurus at the Vernal Equinox and Leo at the SummerSolstice : and when, also, he entered Scorpio, far which, on account of itsmalignant influences, Aquila, the eagle was substituted, at the autumnalequinox; and Aquarius (the water-bearer) at the Winter Solstice.So, Clement says, the candlestick with seven branches represented the sevenplanets, like which the seven branches were arranged and regulated, preservingthat musical proportion and system of harmony of which the sun was the centreand connection. They were arranged, says Philo, by threes, like the planetsabove and those below the sun; between which two groups was the branch thatrepresented him, the mediator or moderator of the celestial harmony. He is, infact, the fourth in the musical scale, as Philo remarks, and Martianus Capellain his hymn to the Sun.Near the candlestick were other emblems representing the heavens, earth, andthe vegetative matter out of whose bosom the vapors arise. The whole temple wasan abridged image of the world. There were candlesticks with four branches,symbols of the elements and the seasons ; with twelve, symbols of the signs;and even with three hundred and sixty, the number of days in the year, withoutthe supplementary days. Imitating the famous Temple of Tyre, where were thegreat columns consecrated to the winds and fire, the Tyrian artist placed twocolumns of bronze at the entrance of the porch of the temple. The hemisphericalbrazen sea, supported by four groups of bulls, of three each, looking to thefour cardinal points of the compass, represented the bull of the VernalEquinox, and at Tyre were consecrated to Astarte; to whom Hiram, Josephus says,had built a temple, and who wore on her head a helmet bearing the image of abull. And the throne of Solomon, with bulls adopting its arms, and supported onlions, like those of Horus in Egypt and of the Sun at Tyre; likewise referredto the Vernal Equinox and Summer Solstice. Those who in Thrice adored the sun,under the name of Saba Zeus, the Grecian Bacchus, blinded to him, saysMacrobius, a temple on Mount Zelmisso, its round form representing the worldand the sun. A circular aperture in the roof admitted the light, and introducedthe image of the sun into the body of the sanctuary, where he seemed to blazeas in the heights of Heaven, and to dissipate the darkness within that templewhich was a representation symbol of the world. There the passion, death, andresurrection of Bacchus were represented.So the Temple of Eleusis was lighted by a window in the roof. The sanctuary solighted, Dion compares to the Universe, from which he says it differed in sizealone; and in it the great lights of nature played a great part and weremyopically represented. The images of the Sun, Moon, and Mercury wererepresented there, (the latter the same as Anubis who accompanied Isis) ; andthey are still the three lights of a Masonic Lodge ; except that for Mercury,the Master of the Lodge has been absurdly substituted.Eusebius names as the principal Ministers in the Mysteries of Eleusis, first,the Hierophant, clothed with the attributes of the Grand Architect (Demiourgos)of the Universe. After him came the Dadoukos, or torch-bearer, representativeof the Sun : then the altar-bearer, representing the Moon : and last, theHieroceryx, bearing the caduceus, and representing Mercury. It was notpermissible to reveal the different emblems and the mysterious pageantry ofinitiation to the Profane; and therefore we do not. know the attributes,emblems, and ornaments of these and other officers ; of which Apuleius andPausanias dared not speak.We know only that everything recounted there was marvelous; everything donethere tended to astonish the Initiate: and that eyes and ears were equallyastounded. The Hierophant, of lofty height, and noble features, with long hair,of a great age, grave and dignified, with a voice sweet and sonorous, sat upona throne, clad in a long trailing robe; as the Motive-God of Nature was held tobe enveloped in His work and hidden under a veil which no mortal can raise.even his name was concealed, like that of the Demiourgos, whose name wasineffable.The Dadoukos also wore a long robe, his hair long, and a bandeau on hisforehead. Callias, when holding that office, fighting on the great day ofMarathon, clothed with the insignia of his office, was taken by the Barbariansto be a King. The Dadoukos led the procession of the Initiates, and was chargedwith the purification.WE do set know the functions of the Epibomos or assistant at the altar, whorepresented the moon. That planet was one of the two homes of souls, and one ofthe two great gates by which they descended and reascended. Mercury was chargedwith the conducting of souls through the two great gates; and in going from thesun to the moon they passed immediately by him. He admitted or rejected them asthey were more or less pure, and therefore the Hieroceryx or Sacred Herald, whorepresented Mercury, was charged with the duty of excluding the Profane fromthe Mysteries.The same offsets are found in the procession of Initiates of Isis, describedby Apuleius. All clad in robes of white linen, drawn tight across the breast,and close-fitting down to the very feet, came, first, one bearing a lamp in theshape of a boat; second, one carrying an altar; and third, one carrying agolden palm-tree and the caduceus. These are ihe same as the three officers atEleusis, after the Hierophant. Then one carrying an open hand, and pouring milkon the ground from a golden vessel in the shape of a woman's breast. The handwas that of justice: and the milk alluded to the Galaxy or Milky Way, alongwhich souls descended and remounted. Two others followed, one bearing awinnowing fan, and the other a water-vase; symbols of the purification of soulsby air and water; and the third purification, by earth, was represented by animage of the animal that cultivates it, the cow or ox, borne by anotherofficer.Then followed a chest or ark, magnificently ornamented, containing an image ofthe organs of generation of Osiris, or perhaps of both sexes ; emblems of theoriginal generating and producing Powers. When Typhon, said the Egyptian fable,cut up the body of Osiris into pieces, he flung his genitals into the Nile,where a fish devoured them. Atys mutilated himself, as his Priests afterwarddid in imitation of him; and Adonis was in that part of his body wounded by theboar: all of which represented the loss by the Sun of his vivifying andgenerative power, when he reached the Autumnal Equinox (the Scorpion that onold monuments bites those parts of the Vernal Bull), and descended toward theregion of darkness and Winter.Then, says Apuleius, came "one who carried in his bosom an object thatrejoiced the heart of the bearer, a venerable effigy of the Supreme Deity,neither bearing resemblance to man, cattle, bird, beast, or any living creature: an exquisite invention, venerable from the novel originality of thefashioning; a wonderful, ineffable symbol of religious mysteries, to'be lookedupon in profound silence. Such as it was, its figure was that of a small urn ofburnished gold, hollowed very ,artistically, rounded at the bottom, and coveredall over the outside with the wonderful hieroglyphics of the Egyptians. Thespout was not elevated, but extended laterally, projecting like a long rivulet;while on the opposite side was the handle, which, with similar lateralextension, bore on its summit an asp, curling its body into folds, andstretching upward, its wrinkled, scaly, swollen throat."The salient basilisk, ,or royal ensign of the Pharaohs, often occurs on themonuments-a serpent in folds, with his head raised erect above the folds. Thebasilisk was the Phoenix of the serpent-tribe; and the vase or urn was probablythe vessel, shaped like a cucumber, with a projecting spout, out of which, onthe monuments of Egypt, the priests are represented pouring streams of the Cruzansasta or Tau Cross, and of scepters, over the kings.In the Mysteries of Mithras, a sacred cave, representing the whole arrangementof the world, was used for the reception of the Initiates. Zoroaster, saysEubulus, first introduced this custom of consecrating caves. They were alsoconsecrated, in Crete, to Jupiter; in Arcadia, to, the Moon and Pan; and in theIsland of Naxos, to Bacchus. The Persians, in the cave where the Mysteries ofMithras were celebrated, fixed the seat of . that God, Father of Generation, orDemiourgos, near the equinoctial point of Spring, with the Northern portion ofthe world on his right, and the Southern on his left.Mithras, says Porphyry, presided over the Equinoxes, seated on a Bull thesymbolical animal of the Demiourgos, and bearing a sword. The equinoxes werethe gates through which souls passed to and fro, between the hemisphere oflight and that of darkness. The milky way was also represented, passing neareach of these gates: and it was, in the old theology, termed the pathway ofsouls. It is, according to Pythagoras, vast troops of souls that form thatluminous belt. The route followed by souls, according to Porphyry, or rathertheir progressive march in the world, lying through the fixed stars andplanets, the Mithriac cave not only displayed the zodiacal and otherconstellations, and marked gates at the four equinoctial and Solstitial pointsof the zodiac, whereat souls enter into and escape from the world ofgenerational and through which they pass to and fro between the realms of lightand darkness; but it represented the seven planetary spheres which they needsmust traverse, in descending from the heaven of the fixed stars to the elementsthat envelop the earth ; and seven gates were marked, one for each. planet,through which they pass, in descending or returning.We learn this from Celsus, in Origen; who says that the symbolical image ofthis passage among the stars, used in the Mithriac Mysteries, was a ladder,reaching from earth to Heaven, divided into seven steps or stages, to each ofwhich was a gate, and at the summit an eighth, that of the fixed stars. Thefirst gate, says Celsus, was that of Saturn, and of lead, by the heavy naturewhereof his dull slow progress was symbolized. The second, of tin, was that ofVenus, symbolizing her soft splendor and easy flexibility. The third, of brass,was that of Jupiter, emblem of his solidity and dry nature. The fourth, ofiron, was that of Mercury, expressing his indefatigable activity and sagacity.The ,fifth, of copper, was that of Mars, expressive of his inequalities andvariable nature. The sixth, of silver, was that of the Moon: and the seventh,of gold, that of the Sun. This order is not the real order ,of these Planet'sbut a mysterious one, like that of the days of the Week consecrated to them,commencing with Saturday, and retrograding to Sunday. It was dictated, Celsussays, by certain harmonic relations, those of the fourth.Thus there was an intimate connection between the Sacred Science of theMysteries, and ancient astronomy and physics ; and the grand spectacle of theSanctuaries was that of the order of the renown Universe, or the spectacle ofNature itself, surrounding the soul of the Initiate, as it surrounded it whenit first descended through the planetary gates, and by the equinoctial andSolstitial doors, along the Milky Way, to be for the first time immured in itsprison-house of matter. But the Mysteries also represented to the candidate, bysensible symbols, the invisible forces which move this visible Universe, andthe virtues, qualities, and powers attached to matter, and which maintain themarvellous order observed therein. Of this Porphyry informs us.The world, according to the philosophers of antiquity, was not a purelymaterial and mechanical machine. A great Soul, diffused everywhere, vivifiedall the members of the immense body of the Universe ; and an Intelligence,equally great, directed all its movements, and maintained the eternal harmonythat resulted therefrom. Thus the Unity of the Universe, represented bv thesymbolic egg, contained in itself two units the Soul and the Intelligence,which pervaded all its parts : and they were to the Universe,' considered as ananimated and intelligent being, what intelligence and the soul of life are tothe individuality of man.The doctrine of the Unity of God, in this sense, was taught by Orpheus. Ofthis his hymn or palinode is a proof ; fragments of which are quoted by many ofthe Fathers, as Justin, Tatian, Clemens of Alexandria, Cyril, and Theodoret,and the whole by Eusebius, quoting from Aristobulus. The doctrine of the Locos(word) or the Noos (intellect), his incarnation, death, resurrection ortransfiguration ; of his union with matter, his division in the visible world,which he pervades, his return to the original Unity, and the whole theoryrelative to the origin of the soul and its destiny, were taught in theMysteries, if which they were the , great object.The Emperor Julian explains the Mysteries of Atys and Cybele by the samemetaphysical principles, respecting the demiurgical Intelligence, its descentinto matter, and its return to its origin: and extends this explanation tothose of Ceres. And so likewise does Sallust the Philosopher, who admits in Goda secondary intelligent Force, which descends into the generative matter toorganize it. These mystical ideas naturally formed a part of the sacreddoctrine and of the ceremonies of initiations the object of which, Sallustremarks, was to unite man with the World and the Deity, and the final term ofperfection whereof was, according to Clemens, the contemplation of nature, ofreal beings, and of causes. The definition of Sallust is correct. The Mysterieswere practiced as a means of perfecting the souls of making it to know its owndignity, of reminding. It of its noble origin and immortality, and consequentlyof its relations with the Universe and the Deity.What was meant by real beings, was invisible beings, genii, the faculties orpowers of nature ; everything not a part of the visible world, which wascalled, by way of opposition, apparent existence. The theory of Genii, orPowers of Nature, and its Forces, personified, made part of the Sacred Scienceof initiation, and of that religious spectacle of different beings exhibited inthe Sanctuary. It resulted from that belief in the providence andsuperintendence of the Gods, which was one of the primary bases of initiation.The administration of the Universe by Subaltern Genii, to vihom it is confided,and by whom good and evil are dispensed in the world, was a consequence of thisdogma, taught in the Mysteries of Mithias, where was shown that famous egg,shared between Ormuzd and Ahriman, each ,of whom commissioned twenty-four Geniito dispense the good and evil found therein; they being under twelve SuperiorGods, six on the side of Light and Good, and six on that of Darkness and Evil.This doctrine of the Genii, depositaries of the Universal Provedence, wasintimately connected with the Ancient Mysteries, and adopted in the sacrificesand initiations 'both of Greeks and Barbarians. Plutarch says that the Gods, bymeans of Genii, who are intermediates between them and men, draw near tomortals in the , ceremonies of initiation, at which the Gods charge them toassist, and to distribute punishment and blessing. Thus not the Deity, but Hisministers, or a Principle and Power of Evil, were deemed the authors of viceand sin and suffering: and thus the Genii or angels differed in character likemen, some being good and some evil; some Celestial Gods, Archangels, Angels,and some Infernal Gods, Demons and fallen Angels.At the head of the latter was their Chief, Typhon, Ahriman, or Shaitan, theEvil Principle ; who, having wrought disorder in nature, brought troubles onmen by land and sea, and caused the greatest ills, is at last punished for hiscrimes. It was these events and incidents, says Plutarch, which Isis desired torepresent in the ceremonial ,of the Mysteries, established by her in memory ofher sorrows and wanderings, whereof she exhibited an image and representationin her Sanctuaries, where also were afforded encouragements to piety andconsolation in misfortune. The dogma of a Providence, he says, administeringthe Universe by means of intermediary Powers, who maintain the connection ofman with the Divinity, was eonsecrated in the hlysteries of the Egyptians,Phrygians, and Thracians, of the Magi and the Disciples of Zoroaster; as isplain by their initiations, in which mournful and funereal ceremonies mingled.It was an essential part of the lessons given the Initiates, to teach them therelations of their own souls with Universal Nature, the greatest lessons ofall, meant to dignify man in his own eyes, and teach him his place in theUniverse of things.Thus the whole system of the Universe was displayed in all its parts tothe eyes of the Initiate ; and the symbolic cave which reps resented it wasadorned and clothed with all the attributes of that Universe. To this world soorganized, endowed with a double force, active and passive, divided betweenlight and darkness, moved by a living and intelligent Force, governed by Geniior Angels who preside over its different parts, and whose nature and characterare more lofty or low i# proportion as they possess a greater or less portionof dark matter,-to this world descends the soul, emanation of the etherealfire, and exiled from the luminous region above the world. It enters into thisdark matter, wherein the hostile principles, each seconded by his troops ofGenii, are ever in convict, there to submit to one or more organizations in thebody which is its prison, until it shall at last return to its place of origin,its true native country, from which daring this life it is an exile.But one thing remained,-to represent its return, through the constellationsand planetary spheres, to its original home. The celestial fire, thephilosophers said, soul of the world and of fire, an universal principle,circulating above the Heavens, in a region infinitely pure and wholly luminous,itself pure, simple, and unmixed, is above the world by its specific lightness.If any part of it (say a human soul) descends, it acts against its nature indoing so, urged by an inconsiderate desire of the intelligence, a perfidiouslove for matter which causes it to descend, to know what passes here below,where good and evil are in conflict. The Soul, a simple substance, whenunconnected with matter, a ray or partscle of the Divine Fire, whose home is inHeaven, ever turns toward that home, while united with the body, andstruggles to return thither.Teaching this, the Mysteries strove to recall man to his divine origin, andpoint out to him the means of returning thither. The grist science acquired inthe Mysteries was knowledge of man's self, of the nobleness of his origin, thegrandeur of his destiny, and his superiority over the animals, which can neveracquire this knowledge, and whom he resembles so long as he does not rejectupon his existence and sound the depths of his own nature.By doing and suffering, by virtue and piety and good deeds, the soul wasenabled at length to free itself from the body, and ascend along the path ofthe Milky Way, by the gate of Capricorn and by the seven spheres. to the placewhence by many graduations and successive lapses and enthrallments it haddescended. And thus the theory of the spheres, and of the signs andintelligences which preside there, and the whole system of astronomy, wereconnected with that of the soul and its destiny; and so were taught in theMysteries, in which were developed the great principles of physics andmetaphysics as to the origin of the soul, its condition here below, itsdestination, and its future fate.The Greeks fix the date of the establishment of the Mysteries of Eleusis atthe year 1423 B. C., during the reign of Erechtheus at Athens. According tosome authors, they were instituted by Ceres herself; and according to others,by that Monarch, who brought them from Egypt, where, according to Diodorus ofSicily, he was born. Another tradition was, that Orpheus introduced them intoGreece, together with the Dionysian ceremonies, copying the latter from theMysteries of Osiris, and the former from those of Isis.Nor was it at Athens only, that the worship and Mysteries of Isis,metamorphosed into Ceres, were established. The Boeotians worshipped the Greator Cabiric Ceres, in the recesses of a sacred grove, into which none butInitiates could enter; and the ceremonies there observed, and the sacredtraditions of their Mysteries, were connected with those of the Cabiri inSamothrace.So in Argos, Phocis, Arcadia, Achaia, Messenia, Corinth, and many other partsof Greece, the Mysteries were practiced, revealing everywhere their Egyptianorigin and everywhere having the same general features; but those of Eleusis,in Attica, Pausanias informs us, had been regarded by the Greeks, from theearliest times, as being as far superior to all the others, as the Gods are tomere Heroes.Similar to these were the Mysteries of Bona Dea, the Good Goddess, whose name,say Cicero and Plutarch, it was not permitted to any man to know, celebrated atRome frorm the earliest times of that city. It was these Mysteries, practicedby women alone, the secrecy of which was impiously violated by Claudius. Theywere held at the Kalends of May; and, according to Plutarch, much of theceremonial greatly resembled that of the Mysteries of Bacchus.The Mysteries of Venus and Adonis belonged principally to Syria and Phoenicia,whence they passed into Greece and Sicily. Venus or Astarte was the GreatFemale Deity of the Phoenicians, as Hercules, Melkarth or Adoni was their ChiefGod. Adoni, called by the Greeks Adonis, was the lover of Venus. Slain by awound in the thigh inflicted by a wild boar in the chase, the flower calledanemone sprang from his blood. Venus received the corpse and obtained fromJupiter the boon that her lover should thereafter pass six months of each yearwith her, and the other six in the Shades with Proserpine; an allegoricaldescription of the alternate residence of the Sun in the two hemispheres. Inthese Mysteries his death was represented and mounted, and after thismaceration and mourning were concluded, his resurrection and ascent to Heavenwere announced.Ezekiel speaks of the festivals of Adonis under the name of those of Thammuz,an Assyrian Deity, whom every year the women mourned, seated at the doors oftheir dwellings. These Mysteries, like the others, were celebrated in theSpring, at the Vernal Equinox, when he was restored to life; at which time,when they-were instituted, the Sun (Adoni, Lord, or Master) was in the SignTaurus, the domicile of Venus. He was represented with horns, and the hymn ofOrpheus in his honor styles him "the two-horned God ;" as in Argos Bacchus wasrepresented with the feet of a bull.Plutarch says that Adonis and Bacchus were regarded as one' and the sameDeity; and that this opinion was founded on the great similarity in very manyrespects between the Mysteries ofthese two Gods.The Mysteries of Bacchus were known as the Sabazian, Orphic and DionysianFestivals. They went back to the remotest antiquity among the Greeks, and wereattributed by some to Bacchus himself, and by others to Orpheus. Theresemblance in ceremonial between the observances established in honor ofOsiris in Egypt, and those in honor of Bacchus in Greece, the mythologicaltraditions of the two Gods, and the symbols used in the festivals of each,amply prove their identity. Neither the name of Bacchus, nor the word orgiesapplied to his feasts, nor the sacred words used in his Mysteries, are Greek,but of foreign origin. Bacchus was an Oriental Deity, worshipped in the East,and his orgies celebrated there, long before the Greeks adopted them. In theearliest times he was worshipped in India, Arabia, and Bavaria.He was honored in Greece with public festivals, and in simple or complicatedMysteries, varying in ceremonial in various places, as was natural, because hisworship had come thither from different countries and at different periods, Thepeople who celebrated the complicated Mysteries were ignorant of the meaningof. many words which they used, and of many embalms which they revered. In theSabazian Feasts, for example [from Saba-Zeus, an oriental name of this Deity],the words EVOI, SABOI, Were used, which are in nowise Greek; and a serpent ofgold was thrown into the bosom of the Initiate, in allusion to the fable thatJupiter had, in the form of a serpent, had connection with Proserpine, andbegotten Bakchos, the bull ; whence the enigmatical saying, repeated to theInitiates, that a bull engendered a dragon or serpent, and the serpent in turnengendered the bull, who became Bakchos : the meaning if which was, that thebull [Taurus, which then opened the Vernal Equinox, and the Sun in which Sign,figuratively represented by the Sign itself, was Bakchos, Dionysus, Saba-Zeus,Osiris, etc.], and the Serpent, another constellation, occupied such relativepositions in the Heavens, that when one rose the other set, and vice versa.The serpent was a familiar symbol in the Mysteries of Bakchos. The Initiatesgrasped them with their hands, as Orphiucus does on the celestial globe, andthe Orpheo-telestes, or purifier of candidates did the same, crying, asDemosthenes taunted. AEschines with doing in public at the head of the womenwhom his mother was to imitate, EVOI, SAB0I, HYES ATTE, ANTE, HYES!The Initiates in these Mysteries had preserved the ritual and ceremonies thataccorded with the simplicity of the earliest ages, and the manners of the firstmen. The rules of Pythagoras were followed there. Like the Egyptians, who heldwool unclean, they buried no Initiate in woolen garments. They abstained frombloody sacrifices; and lived on fruits or vegetables or inanimate things. Theyimitated the life of the contemplative Sects of the Orient; thus approximatingto the tranquility of the first men, who lived exempt from trouble and crimesin the bosom of a profound peace. One of the most precious advantages promisedby their initiation was, to put a man in communion with the Gods, by purifyinghis soul of all the passions that interfere with that enjoyment, and dim therays of divine light that are communicated to every soul capable of receivingthem, and that imitate their purity. One of the degrees of initiation was thestate of inspiration to which the adapts were claimed to attain. The Initiatesin the Mysteries of the Lamb, at Pepuza, in Phrygia, professed to be inspired,and prophesied and it was claimed that the soul, by means of these religiousceremonies, purified of any stain, could see the Gods in this life, andcertainly, in all cases, after death. The sacred gates of the Temple, where theceremonies of initiation were performed, were opened but once in each year, andno stranger was ever allowed to enter. It. night threw her veil over theseaugust Mysteries, which could be revealed to no, one. There the sufferings ofBakchos were represented, who, like Osiris, died, descended to hell and rose tolife again; and raw flesh was distributed to the Initiates, which each ate, inmemory of the death df the Deity, torn in pieces by the Titans.These Mysteries also were celebrated at the Vernal Equinox; and the emblem ofgeneration, to express the active energy and generative power of the Divinity,was a principal symbol. The Initiates wore garlands and crowns of myrtle andlaurel.In these Mysteries, the aspirant was kept in terror and darkness to performthe three days and nights; and was then made Afa?ismos , Of Ceremonyrepresenting the death of Bakchos, the same mythological personage with Osiris.This was effected by coffining him in a close cell, that he might seriouslyreflect, in solitude and darkness, on the business he was engaged in : and hismind be prepared for the reception of the sublime and mysterious truths ofprimitive revelation and philosophy. This was a symbolic death ; thedeliverance from it, regeneration ; after which he was called difn?s ortwin-born. While confined in the cell, the pursuit of Typhon after the mangledbody of Osiris, and the search of Rhea or Isis for the same, were enacted inhis hearing; the initiated crying aloud the names, of that Deity derived fromthe Sanskrit. Then it was announced that the body was found ; and the aspirantwas liberated amid shoots of joy and exultation.Then he passed through a representation of Hell and Elysium. "Then," said anancient writer, "they are entertained with hymns and dances, with the sublimedoctrines of sacred knowledge, and with wonderful and holy visions. And nowbecome perfect and initiated, they are FREE, and no longer under restraint ;but, crowned, and triumphant, they walk up and down the regions of the blessed,converse with pure and holy men, and celebrate the sacred Mysteries atpleasure." They were taught the nature and objects of the Mysteries, and themeans of making themselves known, and received the name of Epopts; were fullyinstructed ie the nature and attributes of the Divinity, and the doctrine of afuture state; and made acquainted with the unity and attributes of the GrandArchitect of the Universe, and the true meaning of the fables in regard to theGods of Paganism: the great Truth being often proclaimed, that "Zeus is theprimitive Source of all things; there is one God; one power, and one rule overall." And after full explanation of the many symbols and emblems thatsurrounded them, they were dismissed with the barbarous words Kog? Ompa?,corruptions of the Sanskrit words, Kanska Aom Pakscha; meaning, object of ourwishes, God, Silence, or Worship the Deity in Silence.. Among the emblems used was the rod of Bakchos; which once, it was said, hecast on the ground, and it became a serpent; and at another time he struck therivers Orontes and Hydaspes with it,. and the waters receded and he passed overdry-shod. Water was obtained, during the ceremonies, by striking a rock withit. The Bakchae crowned their heads with serpents, carried them in vases andbaskets, and at the Evehois, or finding, of the body of Osiris, cast one,alive, into the aspirant's bosom.The Mysteries of Atys in Phrygia, and those of Cybele his mistress, like theirworship, much resembled those of Adonis and Bakchos, Osiris and Isis. TheirAsiatic origin is universally admitted, and was with great plausibility claimedby Phrygia, which contested the palm of antiquity with Egypt. They, more thanany other people, mingled allegory with their. religious worship, and weregreat inventors of fables ; and their sacred traditions as to Cybele and Atys,whom all admit to be Phrygian Gods, were very various. In all, as we learn iromJulius Firmicus, they represented by allegory the phenomena ,of nature, and thesuccession of physical facts, under the veil of a marvelous history.Their feasts occurred at the equinoxes, commencing with lamentation, mourning,groans, and pitiful cries for the heath of Atys; and ending with rejoicings athis restoration to life.We shall not recite the different versions of the legend of Atys and Cybele,given by Julius Firmicus, Diodorus, Arnobius, Lactantius, Servius, SaintAugustine, and Pausanias. It is enough to say that it is in substance this:that Cybele, a Phrygian Princess, who invented musical instruments and dances,was enamored of Atys, a youth; that either he in a fit of frenzy mutilatedhimself or was mutilated by her in a paroxysm of jealousy ; that he died, andafterward, like Adonis, was restored to life.' It is the Phoenician fiction asto the Sun-God, expressed in other terms, under other 'forms, and with othernames.' Cybele was worshipped in Syria, under the name of Rhea.Lucian says that the Lydian Atys there established her worship and built hertemple. The name of Rhea is also found in the ancient cosmogony of thePhoenicians by Sanchoniathon. It was' Atys the Lydian, says Lucian, who, havingbeen mutilated, first established the Mysteries of Rhea, and taught thePhrygians, the Lydians, and the people of Samothrace to celebrate them. Rhea,like Cybele, was represented drawn by lions, bearing a drum, and crowned withflowers. - According to Varro, Cybele represented the earth. She partook of thecharacteristics of Minerva, Venus, the Moon, Diana, Nemesis, and the Furies ;was clad in precious stones ; and her High Priest wore a robe of purple and atiara of gold.`The Grand Feast of the Syrian Goddess, like that of the Mother of the Gods atRome, was celebrated at the Vernal Equinox. Precisely at that equinox theMysteries of Atys were celebrated,' in which thi Initiates were taught toexpect the rewards of a future life, and the flight of Atys from the jealousfury of Cybele was described, his concealment in the mountains and in a cave,and. His self-mutilation in a fit of delirium ; in which act his priestsimitated him. The feast of the passion of Atys continued three days; the firstof which was passed in mourning and tears; to which afterward clamorousrejoicings succeeded ; by which, Macrobius says, the Sun was adored under thename of Atys. The ceremonies were all allegorical, some of which, according tothe Emperor Julian, could be explained, but more remained covered with the veilof mystery. Thus it is that symbols outlast their explanations, as many havedone in Masonry, and ignorance and rashness substitute new ones.In another legend, given by Pausanias, Atys dies, wounded like Adonis by awild boar in the `organs of generation ; a mutilation with which all thelegends ended. The pine tree under which he was said to have died, was sacredto him; and, was found upon many monuments, with a bull and a ram near it; onethe sign of exaltation of the Sun, and the other of that of the Moon.The worship of the Sun under the name of Mithras belonged to Persia, whencethat name came, as did the erudite symbols of that worship. The Persians,adorers of Fire, regarded the Sun as; the most brilliant abode of thefecundating energy of that element, which gives life to the earth, andcirculates in every part of the Universe, of which it is, as it were, the soul.This worship passed from Persia into Armenia, Cappadocia, and Cilicia, longbefore it was known at Rome. The Mysteries of Mithras flurished more than anyothers in the imperial city. The worship of Mithras commenced to prevail thereunder Trojan. Hadrian prohibited these Mysteries, on account of the cruelscenes represented in their ceremonial : for human victims were immolatedtherein, and the events of futurity looked for in their palpitatirig entrails.They reappeared in greater splendor than ever under Commodus, who with his ownhand sacrificed a victim to Mithras : and they were still more practiced underConstantine and his successors, when the Priests of Mithras were foundeverywhere in the Roman Empire, and the monuments of his worship appeared evenin Britain.Caves were consecrated to Mithras, in which were collected a multitude ofastronomical emblems ; and cruel tests were required of the Initiates. ThePersians built no temples ; but worshipped upon the summits of hills, inenclosures of unhewn stones. They abominated images, and made the Sun and Fireemblems of the Deity. The Jews borrowed this from them, and represented God asappearing to Abraham in a flame of fire, and to Moses as a fire at Horeb and onSinai.With the Persians, Mithras, typified in the Sun, was the invisible Deity, theParent of the Universe, the Mediator. In Zoroaster's cave of initiation, the'Sun and Planets were represented overhead, in gems and gold, as also was theZodiac. The Sun appeared emerging from the back of Taurus. Three great pillars,Eternity, Fecundity, and Authority, supported the roof; and the whole was atemblem of the Universe.Zoroaster, like Moses, claimed to have conversed face to face, as man withman, with the Deity; and to have received from Him a system of pure worship, tobe communicated only to the virtue ous, and those who would devote themselvesto the study of Philosophy.- His fame spread over the world, and pupils came tohi~n from every country. Even Pythagoras was his scholar.After his novitiate, the candidate entered the cavern of initiation, and wasreceived on the point of a sword presented to his 425 naked left breast, bywhich he was slightly wounded. Being crowned with olive, anointed with balsamof benzoin, and other wise prepared, he was purified with fire and. Water, andwent through seven stages of initiation, The symbol of these stages was a highladder with seven rounds or steps. In them, he went through many fearfultrial's in which darkness displayed a principal part. He saw a representationof the wicked in Hides ; and finally emerged from darkness into light. Receivedit a place representing Elysium, in the brilliant assembly of the initiated,where the Arch magus presided, robed in blue, he assumed the obligations ofsecrecy, and was entrusted with the Sacred Words, of which the Ineffable Nameof God was the chief.Then all the incidents of his initiation were explained to him: he was taughtthat these ceremonies brought him nearer the Deity; and that he should adorethe consecrated Fire, the gift of that Deity and His visible residence. He wastaught the sacred characters known only to the initiated; and instructed inregard to the creation of . the world, and the true philosophical meaning ofthe vulgar mythology ; and especially of the legend of Ormuzd and Ahriman, andthe symbolic meaning of the six Amshaspands created by the former : Bahman, theLord of Light; Ardibehest, the Genius of Fire ; Shariver, the Lord of Splendorand Metals; Stapandomad, the Source of Fruitfulness; Kkordad, the Genius ofWater. and Time ; and Amerdad, the protector of the Vegetable World, and theprime cause of growth. And finally he was taught the true nature of the SupremeBeing, Creator of Ormuzd and Ahriman, the' Absolute First 'Cause, styledZeruaneAkherene.In the Mithriac initiation were several Degrees. The first, Tertullian says,was that of Soldier of Mithras. The ceremony oi reception consisted inpresenting the candidate a crown, supported by a sword. It was placed near hishead, and he repelled it, saying, "Mithras is my ,crown." Then he was declaredthe soldier of Mithras, and had the right to call the other Initiates fellowsoldiers or companions in arms. Hence the title Companions in the Royal ArchDegree of the American Rite.Then he passed, Porphyry says, through. the Degree of the Lion, theconstellation Leo, domicile of the Sun and symbol of Mithras,. found on hismonuments. These ceremonies were termed at Rome Leontic and Helium ; andCoracia or Hiero-Coracia, of 426 Heavens below the Lion, with the Hydra,and also appearing on the Mithras monuments.Thence he passed to a higher Degree, where the Initiates were 'called Persesand children of the - Sun. Above them were the Fathers, whose chief orPatriarch was styled Father of Fathers, or Pater Patratus. The Initiates alsobore the title of Eagles and Hawks, birds consecrated to the Sun in Egypt, theformer sacred to the God Mendes, and the latter the emblem of the Sun andRoyalty.The little island of Samothrace was long the depositary of certain augustMysteries, and many went thither from all parts of Greece to be initiated. Itwas said to have been settled by the ancient Pelasgi, early Asiatic colonistsin Greece. The Gods adored in the Mysteries of this island were termed CABIRI,an oriental word, from Caber, great. Varro calls the Gods of Samothrace, Potent(Gods. In Arabic, Venus is called Caber. Varro says thai the Great Deitieswhose Mysteries were practiced there, were Heaven and Earth. These were butsymbols of the Active and Passive Powers or Principles of universal generation.The two Twin, Castor and Pollux, or the Dioscuri, were also called the Gods ofSamothrace; and the Scholiast of Apollonius, citing Mnaseas, gives the names ofCeres, Proserpine, Pluto, and Mercury, as the four Cabiric Divinitiesworshipped at Samothrace, as Axieros, Axiocersa, Axiocersus, and Casmillus.Mercury was, there as everywhere, the minister and messenger of the Gods ; andthe young servitors of the altars and the children employed in the Temples werecalled Mercuries or Casmillus, as they were in Tuscany, by the Etrusci andPelasgi, who worshipped the Great Gods.Tarquin the Etruscan was an Initiate of the mysteries of Samothrace; andEtruria had its Cabiri as Samothrace had. For the worship of the Cabiri spreadfrom that island into Etruria, Phrygia, and Asia Minor : and it probably camefrom Phoenicia into Samothrace : for the Cabiri are mentioned by Sanchoniathon;and the word Caber belongs to the Hebrew, Phoenician, and Arabic languages.The Dioscuri, tutelary Deities of Navigation, with Venus, were invoked in theMysteries of Samothrace. The constellation Auriga, or Phaeton, was also honoredthere with imposing ceremonies. Upon the Aeronautic expedition, Orpheus, anInitiate of these 427 Mysteries, a storm arising, counseled his companionsto put into Samothrace. They did so, the storm ceased, and theywere initiated into the Mysteries there, and sailed again with theassurance of a fortunate voyage, under the auspices of the Dioscuri,patronsof sailors and navigation.But much more than that was promised the Initiates. TheHierophants of Samothrace made something infinitely greater to be the object oftheir initiations ; to wit, the consecration of men to the Deity, bypledging them to virtue ; and the assurance of those rewards whichthe justice of the Gods reserves for Initiates after death. This,above all else, made these ceremonies august, and inspiredeverywhere so great a respect for them, and so great a desire tobe admitted to them. `that originally caused the island to bestyled Sacred. It was respected by all nations. The Romans, whenmasters of the world, left it its liberty and laws. It was anasylum for the unfortunates and a sanctuary inviolable.There men were absolved of the crime of homicide, if notcommitted in a temple. Children of tender age were initiated there, andinvested with the sacred robe, the purple tincture, and the crown of olive, andseated upon a throne, like other Initiates. In the ceremonies wasrepresented the death if the youngest of the Cabiri, slain by hisbrothers, who fled into Etruria, carrying with them the chest orark that contained, his genitals: and there the Phallus and thesacred ark were adored.. Herodotus says that the SamothracianInitiates understood the object and origin of this reverence paidthe Phallus, and why it was exhibited in the Mysteries. Clementof Alexandria says that the Cabiri taught the Tuscany to revereit. It was consecrated at Heliopolis in Syria, where the mysteries of aDivinity having many points of resemblance with. Atys and Cybele wererepresented. The Pelasgi connected it with Mercury ;and it appearson the monuments of Mathias ; always and every-where a symbol ofthe life-giving power of the Sun at the Vernal Equinox.In the Indian Mysteries, as the candidate made his three circuits, he pausedeach time he reached the South, and said, "I copy the example of theSun, and follow his beneficent course." Blue Masonry has renamedthe Circuits, but has utterly lost the explanation; which is, that inthe Mysteries the candidate invariably represented the Sun, descendingSouthward' toward the reign of. 428 the Evil Principle, Ahriman,Sita, or Typhon (darkness and winter) ; there figuratively to be slain, andafter a few days to rise again from the dead, and commence to ascend to theNorthward. Then the death of Sita was bewailed ; or that of Cama, slain byIswara, aid committed to the waves on a chest, like Osiris and Bacchus; duringwhich the candidate was terrified by phantoms and horrid noises.Then he was made to personify Vishnu, and perform his avatars, or labors. Inthe first two he was taught in allegories the legend of the Deluge: in thefirst he took three steps at right angles, representing the three huge stepstaken by Vishnu in that avatar; and hence the three steps in the Master'sDegree ending at right angles.The nine avatars finished, he was taught the necessity of faith, as superiorto sacrifices, acts of charity, or mortifications of the flesh. Then he wasadmonished against five crimes, and took a solemn obligation never to committhem. He was then introduced into a representation of Paradise; the Company ofthe Members of the Order, magnificently arrayed, and the Altar with a fireblazing upon it, as an emblem of the Deity.Then a new name was given him, and he was invested in a white robe and tiara,and received the signs, tokens, and lectures. A cross was marked on hisforehead, and an inverted level, or the Tau Cross, on his breast. He receivedthe sacred cord, and divers amulets or talismans; and was then invested withthe sacred Word or Sublime Name, known only to the initiated, the Trilateral A.U. M.Then the multitude of emblems was explained to the candidate ; the arcana ofscience hidden under them, and the different virtues of which the mythologicalfigures were more personifications. And he thus learne4 the meaning of thosesymbols, which, to the uninitiated, were but a maze of unintelligiblefigures. 429 Godhead, the happiness of the patriarchs, the destruction bythe Deluge, the depravity of the heart, and the necessity of a mediator, theinstability of life, the final destruction of all created things, and therestoration of the world in a more perfect form. They inculcated the Eternityof the Soul, explained the meaning of the doctrine of the Metempsychosis, andheld the-doctrine of a state of future rewards and punishments: and they alsoearnestly urged that sins could only be atoned for by repentance, reformation,and voluntary penance; and not by mere ceremonies and sacrifices.The Mysteries among the Chinese and Japanese came frown India, and werefounded on the same principles and with similar rites. The word given to thenew Initiate was O-Mi-To Fo, in which we recognize the original name A. U. M.,coupled at a much later time with that of Fo, the Indian Buddha, to show thathe was the Great Deity Himself.The equilateral triangle was one of their symbols; and so was the mystical Y;both alluding to the Triune God, and the latter being the ineffable name of theDeity. A ring supported by two serpents was emblematical of the world,protected by the power and wisdom of the Creator; and that is the origin of thetwo parallel lines (into which time has changed the two serpents), that supportthe circle in our Lodges.Among the Japanese, the term of probation for the highest Degree was twentyyears.The main features of the Druidical Mysteries resembled those of the Orient.The ceremonies commenced with a hymn to the sun. The candidates were arrangedin ranks of threes, fives, and sevens, according to their qualifications; andconducted nine times around the Sanctuary, from East to West. The candidateunderwent many trials, one of which had direct reference to the legend ofOsiris. He was placed in a boat, and sent out to sea alone, having to rely onhis own skill and presence of mind to reach the opposite shore in safety. Thedeath of Hu was represented in his hearing, with every external mark of sorrow,while he was in utter darkness. He met with many obstacles, had to prove hiscourage, and expose his life against armed enemies; represented variousanimals, and at last, attaining the permanent light, he was instructed by theArch-Druid in regard to the Mysteries, and in the morality of the third Degreewas a life of seclusion, after the Initiate's children were capable ofproviding for themselves ; passed in the forest, in the practice of prayers andablutions, and living only on vegetables. He was then said to be born again.The fourth was absolute renunciation of the world, self-contemplation addself-torture ; by which Perfection was thought to be attained, and the soulmerged in the Deity.In the second Degree, the Initiate was taught the Unity of the 430 Order,incited to act bravely in war, taught the great truths of the immortality ofthe soul and a future state, solemnly enjoined not to neglect the worship ofthe Deity, nor the practice of rigid morality; and to avoid' sloth, contention,and folly.The aspirant attained only the exoteric knowledge in the first two Degrees.The third was attained only by a few, and they persons of rank and consequence,and after long purification, and study of all the arts and sciences known tothe Druids, in solitude, for nine months. This was the symbolical death andburial of these` Mysteries.The dangerous voyage upon the actual open sea, in a small boat covered with askin, on the evening of the 29th of April, was the last trial, and closingscene, of initiation. If he declined this trial, he was dismissed withcontempt. If he made it and succeeded, he was termed thrice-born, was eligibleto all the dignities of the State, and received complete instruction in thephilosophy= cal and religious doctrines of the Druids.The Greeks also styled the ,Epopihz T?ig??o?, thrice-born; and in Indiaperfection was assigned to the Yogi who had accomplished many births.The general features of the initiations among the Goths were the same as inall the Mysteries. A long probation, of fasting and mortification, circularprocessions, representing the march of the celestial bodies, many fearful testsand trials, a descent into the infernal regions, the killing of the God Balderby the Evil Principle, Lok, the placing of his body in a boat and sending itabroad upon the waters ; and, in short, the Eastern Legend, under differentnames, and with some variations.The Egyptian Anubis appeared there, as the dog guarding the gates of death.The candidate was immured in the representation of a tomb; and when released,goes in search of the body of Balder, and finds him, at length, restored tolife, and seated upon a throne. He was obligated upon a naked sword (as isstill the custom in the Rit Moderne), and sealed his obligation by drinkingmead out of a human skull.Then all the ancient primitive truths were made known to him, so far as theyhad survived the assaults of time: and he was informed as to the generation ofthe Gods, the creation of the world, the deluge, and the resurrection, of whichthat of Balder was a type. He was marked with the sign of the cross and a ringwas given 431 to him as a symbol of the Divine Protection; and also as anemblem of Perfection; from which comes the custom of giving a ring to theAspirant in the 14th Degree.The point within Circle, and the Cube, emblem of Odin, were explained to him;and lastly, the nature of the Supreme God, "the author of everything thatexisteth, the Eternal, the Ancient, the Living and Awful Being, the Searcherinto concealed things', the Being that never changeth ;" with whom Odin theConqueror was by the vulgar confounded : and the Triune God of the Indians wasreproduced, as Odin, the Almighty FATHER, FREA, (Rhea or Phre), his wife(emblem of universal matter), and Thor his son (the Mediator). Here werecognize Osiris, Isis, and Hor or Horus. Around the head of Thor, as if toshow his eastern origin, twelve stars were arranged in a circle.He was also taught the ultimate destruction of the world, and the rising of anew one, in which the brave and virtuous shall enjoy everlasting happiness anddelight: as the means of securing which happy fortune, he was taught topractise the strictest morality and virtue. The Initiate was prepared toreceive the great lessons of all the Mysteries, by long trials, or byabstinence and chastity. For many days he was required to fast and becontinent, and to drink liquids calculated to diminish his passions and keephim chaste. Ablutions were also required, symbolical of the purity necessary toenable the soul to escape from its bondage in matter. Sacred butts andpreparatory baptisms were used, lustrations, immersions, lustral sprinklings,and purifications of every kind. At Athens they bathed in the Ilissus, whichthence became a sacred river; and before enteringthe Temple of Eleusis, allwere required to wash their hands in a vase of lustral water placed near theentrance. Clean hands and a pure heart were required of the candidates.Apuleius bathed seven times in the sea, symbolical of the Seven Spheres throughwhich the Soul must reascend ; add the Hindus must bathe in the sacred riverGanges.Clement of Alexandria cites a passage of Meander, who speaks of a purificationby sprinkling three times with salt and water Sulphur, resin, and the laurelalso served for purification as did air, earth, water, and fire. The Initiatesat Heliopolis, in Syria, says Lucian, sacrificed the sacred lamb, symbol ofAries, then the sign of the Vernal Equinox ; ate his flesh, as the Israelites.did at the Passover; and then touched his head and feet to theirs, and kneltupon the fleece. Then they bathed in warm water, drank of the same, and sleptupon the ground.There was a distinction between the lesser and greater Mysteries. One musthave been for some years admitted to the former,' before he could receive thelatter, which were but a preparation for them, the Vestibule of the temple, ofwhich those of Eleusis were the Sanctuary. There, in the lesser Mysteries, theywere prepared to receive the holy truths taught in the greater. The Initiatesin the lesser were called simply Mystic, or Initiates ; but those in thegreater, Epopts) or Seers. An ancient poet says that the former were animperfect shadow of the latter, as sleep is of Death. After admission to theformer, the Initiate was taught lessons of morality, and the rudiments of thesacred science, the most sublime and secret part of which was reserved for theEpopt, who saw the Truth in its nakedness, while the Mystic only viewed itthrough a veil and under emblems fitter to excite than to satisfy hiscuriosity.Before communicating the first secrets and primary dogmas of initiation, thepriests required the candidate to take a fearful oath never to divulge thesecrets. Then he made his vows, prayers, and sacrifices to the Gods. The skinsof the victims consecrated to Jupiter were spread on the ground, and he wasmade to set his feet upon them. He was then taught some enigmatic formulas, asanswers to questions, by which to make himself known. He was then enthroned,invested with a purple tincture, and crowned with flowers, or branches of palmor olive.We do not certainly know the time that was required to elapse between theadmission to the Lesser and Greater Mysteries of Eleusis. Most writers fix itat five years. It was a singular mark of favor when Demetrius was made Mysticand Epopt in one and the same ceremony. When at length admitted to the Degreeof perfection, the Initiate was brought face to face with entire nature, andlearned that the soul was the whole of man; that earth was but his place ofexile; that Heaven was his native country; that for the soul to be born isreally to die; and that death was for it the return to a new life. Then heentered the sanctuary; but he did not receive the whole instruction at once. Itcontinued through several years. There were, as it were, many apartments,through which be advanced by degrees, and between which thick veils intervened.There were Statues and Paintings, says Proclus, in the inmost sanctuary,showing the forms assumed by the Gods. Finally the last veil fell, the sacredcovering dropped from the image of the Goddess, and she stood revealed in allher splendor, -surrounded by a divine light, which, filling the wholesanctuary, dazzled the eyes and penetrated the soul of the Initiate. Thus issymbolized the final revelation of the true doctrine as to the nature of Deityand of the soul, and of the relations of each to matter. This was preceded byfrightful scenes, alternations of fear and joy, of light and darkness; byglittering lightning and the crashed thunder, and apparitions of specters, ormagical illusions, impressing at once the eyes and ears. This Claudiandescribes, in his poem on the rape of Proserpine, where he alludes to whatpassed in her Mysteries. "The temple is shaken," he cries; “fiercely gleams thelightning, by which the Deity announces his presence. Earth trembles ; and aterrible noise is heard in the midst of these terrors. The Temple of the Son ofCecrops resounds with long-continued roars; Eleusis uplifts her sacred torches; the serpents of Triptolemus are heard to hiss ; and fearful Hecate appearsafar."The celebration of the Greek Mysteries continued, according to the betteropinion, for nine days. On the first the Initiates met. It was the day of thefull moon, of the month Boedromion ; when the moon was full at the end of thesign Aries, near the Pleiades and the place of her exaltation in Taurus.The second day there was a procession to the sea, for purification by bathing.The third was occupied with offerings, expiatory sacrifices, and otherreligious rites, such as fasting, mourning, continence, etc.A mullet wasimmolated, and offerings of grain and living animals made. On the fourth theycarried in procession the mystic wreath of flowers, representing that whichProserpine dropped when seized by Pluto, and the Crown of Ariadne in theHeavens. It was borne on a triumphal car drawn by oxen; and women followedbearing mystic chests or boxes, wrapped with purple clothe, captaining grainsof sesame, pyramidal biscuits, salt, pomegranates and the mysterious serpent,and perhaps the mystic phallus. On the fifth was the superb procession oftorches, commemorative of the search for Proserpine by Ceres ; the Initiatesmarching by trios, and each bearing a torch; while at the head of theprocession marched the Dadoukos.The sixth was consecrated to Iakchos, the young Light-God, son of Ceres,reared in the sanctuaries and bearing the torch of the Sun-God. The chorus inAristophanes terms him the luminous star that lights the nocturnal initiation.He was brought from the sanctuary, his head crowned with myrtle, and borne fromthe gate of the Ceramicus to Eleusis, along the sacred way, amid dances, sacredsongs, every mark of joy, and mystic cries of Iakchos.On the seventh there were gymnastic exercises and combats, the victors inwhich were crowned and rewarded.On the eighth was the feast of AEsculapius.On the ninth the famous libation was made for the souls of the departed. ThePriests, according to Athenaus, filled two vases, placed one in the East andone in the West, toward the gates of day and night, and overturned them,pronouncing a formula of mysterious prayers. Thus they invoked Light andDarkness, the two great' principles of nature.During all these days no one could be arrested, nor any suit brought, on painof death, or at least a heavy fine: and no one was allowed, by the display ofunusual wealth or magnificence, toendeavor to rival this sacred pomp. Everything was for religion. Such were theMysteries ; and such the Old Thought, as in scattered and widely separatedfragments it has come down to us.The human mind still speculates upon the great mysteries of nature, and stillfinds its ideas anticipated by the ancients, whose profoundest thoughts are tobe looked for, not in `their philosophies, but in their symbols, by which theyendeavored to express the great ideas that vainly struggled for utterance inwords, as they viewed fhe great circle of phenomena,-Birth, Life, Death, orDecomposition, and New Life out of Death and Rottenness,- to them the greatestof mysteries. Remember, while you study their symbols, that they had aprofounder sense of these wonders than we have. To them the transformations ofthe worm were a greater wonder than the stars; and hence the poor dumbscarabaeus or beetle was sacred to them. Thus their faiths are condensed intosymbols or expanded into allegories, which they understood, but were not alwaysable to explain in language; for there are thoughts and ideas which no languageever spoken by man has words to express
Back To Menu
