# National Socialism and The Globalization of Education

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalization55.htm

by J. Marrs
extracted from
"Secret Societies That Threaten to Take Over America"
2008
from Archive Website
"Education is crucial..."
stated professor George Mosse
in his book Nazi Culture,
"for if an ideology can be institutionalized
through the education establishment,
it has won a major battle.
The Nazis realized this only too well"...
Upon close inspection, it will be found that the American education establishment has been created and guided for many years by the progenitors of the globalists who created both communism and National Socialism. The oil magnate John D. Rockefeller created the General Education Board (GEB) in 1903 to dispense Rockefeller donations to education.
By 1960, it had ceased operating as a separate entity and its programs were rolled into the Rockefeller Foundation. In 1917, the GEB made a $6 million grant to Columbia University to create the New Lincoln School, a private experimental coeducational school in New York City.
According to current school literature, the facility engages in,
"enrolling students from kindergarten through grade 12. Its predecessor was founded as Lincoln School in 1917 by the Rockefeller -funded General Education Board as 'a pioneer experimental school for newer educational methods,' under the aegis of Columbia University's Teachers College."
According to Eustace Mullins:
"From this school descended the national network of progressive educators and social scientists, whose pernicious influence closely paralleled the goals of the Communist Party, another favorite recipient of the Rockefeller millions. From its outset, the Lincoln School was described frankly as a revolutionary school for the primary and secondary schools of the entire United States. It immediately discarded all theories of education that were based on formal and well-established disciplines, that is the McGuffey Reader type of education, which worked by teaching such subjects as Latin and algebra, thus teaching children to think logically about problems."
"From this school descended the national network of progressive educators and social scientists, whose pernicious influence closely paralleled the goals of the Communist Party, another favorite recipient of the Rockefeller millions.
From its outset, the Lincoln School was described frankly as a revolutionary school for the primary and secondary schools of the entire United States.
It immediately discarded all theories of education that were based on formal and well-established disciplines, that is the McGuffey Reader type of education, which worked by teaching such subjects as Latin and algebra, thus teaching children to think logically about problems."
Other Rockefeller-connected entities that still shape the United States include:
the Brookings Institution the National Bureau of Economic Research the Public Administration Clearing House the Council of State Governments the Institute of Pacific Relations
the Brookings Institution
the National Bureau of Economic Research
the Public Administration Clearing House
the Council of State Governments
the Institute of Pacific Relations
During the Carter administration, a former Rockefeller assistant, Paul Volcker, was named chairman of the U.S. Central Bank, the Federal Reserve System. John D. Rockefeller , who claimed to be a devout Baptist, began his attempt to influence American education in the late 1800s, with a $600,000 donation to the American Baptist Education Society for an endowment for the University of Chicago.
Between 1890 and 1914, Rockefeller , through the society, handed out close to a million dollars to many different schools. But the lynchpin of his attempt to guide American education was his formation of the National Education Board and the continuing Rockefeller support to the University of Chicago. The mammoth university now encompasses an undergraduate college, four graduate divisions, six professional schools as well as libraries, laboratories, museums, clinics, and other institutions; nursery and K-12 schools; a continuing-studies program; and an academic press.
In 2003, a university center opened in Paris to accommodate the school's program of Europe an studies.
Closely connected to Rockefeller's University of Chicago is the English world's most accepted authority on everything, Encyclopaedia Britannica.
Formerly a privately held not-for-profit company, Encyclopaedia Britannica, headquartered in Chicago, also owns Merriam-Webster Incorporation, one of the world's leading publishers of dictionaries and thesauri. Until recently, the encyclopedia firm was owned by the William Benton Foundation, whose sole beneficiary was the University of Chicago, in accordance with the wishes of its namesake, Senator William Benton, a former vice president of the university. A former senator from Connecticut, Benton graduated from Yale University in 1921, then worked in advertising until becoming a part-time vice president of the University of Chicago in 1932.
During World War II, he served as assistant secretary of state in Washington, D.C., until 1947, during which time he was active in organizing the United Nations. He served as a member of and delegate to numerous United Nations and international conferences and commissions.
A declared Democrat, he was U.S. senator from 1949 until 1953. From 1943 until his death in 1973, Benton was chairman of the board and publisher of Encyclopaedia Britannica. It was announced in 1996 that 100 percent of the company's stock was purchased for an undisclosed amount by an investment group led by Jacob Safra, who headed the Swiss bank of his name, which in 1955 opened a branch in Brazil.
Bank Jacob Safra Switzerland is part of the Safra Group, a far-flung chain of financial institutions.
Some conspiracy researchers see the private ownership of the world's premier encyclopedia as the perfect means for controlling public knowledge, particularly in the areas of history and science.
"The creation and funding of the University of Chicago had done much to enhance Rockefeller's public relations profile among Baptists and educators... The only difficulty was that education, on the whole, wasn't in bad shape," explained Paolo Lionni, author of The Leipzig Connection, his 1993 book that traced the deleterious effects of experimental psychology on the education system back to German professor of philosophy Wilhelm Max Wundt, the founder of experimental psychology. "The indigenous American educational system was deeply rooted in the beliefs and practices of the Puritan Fathers, the Quakers, the early American patriots and philosophers. Jefferson had maintained that in order to preserve liberty in the new nation, it was essential that its citizenry be educated, what ever their income. Throughout the country, schools were established almost immediately after the colonization of new areas."
"The creation and funding of the University of Chicago had done much to enhance Rockefeller's public relations profile among Baptists and educators...
The only difficulty was that education, on the whole, wasn't in bad shape," explained Paolo Lionni, author of The Leipzig Connection, his 1993 book that traced the deleterious effects of experimental psychology on the education system back to German professor of philosophy Wilhelm Max Wundt, the founder of experimental psychology.
"The indigenous American educational system was deeply rooted in the beliefs and practices of the Puritan Fathers, the Quakers, the early American patriots and philosophers.
Jefferson had maintained that in order to preserve liberty in the new nation, it was essential that its citizenry be educated, what ever their income.
Throughout the country, schools were established almost immediately after the colonization of new areas."
These school systems included ones established by the Quakers in Pennsylvania and the Midwest, the free school movement in New York, and a large number of "normal schools," so named for helping to set the norms for education.
By the start of the twentieth century, the United States was home to many major universities, which turned out thousands of well-trained teachers each year. Lionni noted:
"Educational results far exceeded those of modern schools. One has only to read old debates in the Congressional Record or scan the books published in the 1800s to realize that our ancestors of a century ago commanded a use of the language far superior to our own. Students learned how to read not comic books but the essays of Burke, Webster, Lincoln, Horace, Cicero. Their difficulties with grammar were overcome long before they graduated from school, and any review of a typical elementary school arithmetic textbook printed before 1910 shows dramatically that students were learning mathematical skills that few of our current high school graduates know anything about. The high school graduate of 1900 was an educated person, fluent in his language, history, and culture, possessing the skills he needed in order to succeed."
"Educational results far exceeded those of modern schools.
One has only to read old debates in the Congressional Record or scan the books published in the 1800s to realize that our ancestors of a century ago commanded a use of the language far superior to our own. Students learned how to read not comic books but the essays of Burke, Webster, Lincoln, Horace, Cicero.
Their difficulties with grammar were overcome long before they graduated from school, and any review of a typical elementary school arithmetic textbook printed before 1910 shows dramatically that students were learning mathematical skills that few of our current high school graduates know anything about.
The high school graduate of 1900 was an educated person, fluent in his language, history, and culture, possessing the skills he needed in order to succeed."
The agenda behind Rockefeller's creation of the GEB may have been revealed in correspondence from Frederick T. Gates, Rockefeller's choice to head the board. Gates wrote,
"In our dreams, we have limitless resources and the people yield themselves with perfect docility to our molding hands. The present education conventions fade from their minds, and unhampered by tradition, we work our own good will upon a grateful and responsive rural folk. We shall not try to make these people or any of their children into philosophers or men of learning, or men of science. We have not to raise up from among them authors, editors, poets or men of letters. We shall not search for embryo great artists, painters, musicians nor lawyers, doctors, preachers, politicians, statesmen, of whom we have an ample supply. "The task we set before ourselves is very simple as well as a very beautiful one, to train these people as we find them to a perfectly ideal life just where they are. So we will organize our children and teach them to do in a perfect way the things their fathers and mothers are doing in an imperfect way, in the homes, in the shops and on the farm."
"In our dreams, we have limitless resources and the people yield themselves with perfect docility to our molding hands.
The present education conventions fade from their minds, and unhampered by tradition, we work our own good will upon a grateful and responsive rural folk.
We shall not try to make these people or any of their children into philosophers or men of learning, or men of science.
We have not to raise up from among them authors, editors, poets or men of letters. We shall not search for embryo great artists, painters, musicians nor lawyers, doctors, preachers, politicians, statesmen, of whom we have an ample supply. "The task we set before ourselves is very simple as well as a very beautiful one, to train these people as we find them to a perfectly ideal life just where they are.
So we will organize our children and teach them to do in a perfect way the things their fathers and mothers are doing in an imperfect way, in the homes, in the shops and on the farm."
Paolo Lionni wrote:
"It would be false to say [John D. Rockefeller ] was the mastermind of international intrigue and deception. But it wouldn't be false to say the Rockefeller money has been used in various ways to forward social and global control through economics, foundations, the United Nations, universities, banking, industry, medicine, and, of course, education, psychology, and psychiatry ..."It is not incorrect to say that a major segment of today's modern institutions exist not because of honest study and concern for the truth in the respective fields but because Rockefeller's money was available at their inception to fund incredible PR campaigns, establish 'professional' publications and societies, steamroller over any competition (regardless of their legitimacy or value), and continue selling the ideas until accepted and institutionalized within the basic fabric of society."...That's a tremendous amount of control and involvement for one group! What if the theories and practices they funded and continue to fund are fundamentally flawed and don't lead to the best possible situations in the various fields mentioned? Well, the views in most of those areas are fundamentally flawed and they don't lead to the best solutions in 'mental health,' education, medicine, sanity, and happiness. But, most likely, despite all 'humanitarian' posturing, they were never intended to."
"It would be false to say [John D. Rockefeller ] was the mastermind of international intrigue and deception.
But it wouldn't be false to say the Rockefeller money has been used in various ways to forward social and global control through economics, foundations, the United Nations, universities, banking, industry, medicine, and, of course, education, psychology, and psychiatry ..."It is not incorrect to say that a major segment of today's modern institutions exist not because of honest study and concern for the truth in the respective fields but because Rockefeller's money was available at their inception to fund incredible PR campaigns, establish 'professional' publications and societies, steamroller over any competition (regardless of their legitimacy or value), and continue selling the ideas until accepted and institutionalized within the basic fabric of society."...That's a tremendous amount of control and involvement for one group!
What if the theories and practices they funded and continue to fund are fundamentally flawed and don't lead to the best possible situations in the various fields mentioned?
Well, the views in most of those areas are fundamentally flawed and they don't lead to the best solutions in 'mental health,' education, medicine, sanity, and happiness.
But, most likely, despite all 'humanitarian' posturing, they were never intended to."
Norman Dodd, Director of research for the House Select Committee to Investigate Foundations and Comparable Organizations, reported that in 1952 the president of the Ford Foundation told him bluntly that,
"operating under directive from the White House," his foundation was to "use our grant-making power so as to alter our life in the United States that we can be comfortably merged with the Soviet Union."
Now, with the collapse of communism, the advent of the United Nations and NATO, along with various economic treaties now in place, it would appear that this globalist goal is close to becoming realized. Dodd also stated that the congressional investigation found that the Guggenheim, Ford, and Rockefeller Foundations and the Carnegie Endowment were "working in harmony to control education in the United States."
He added that these entities had been subverted from the original goals of their creators by subsequent directors - another example of wealth taking control of existing organizations. Some of the past and current organizations and foundations linked by membership or funding to the plutocracy that once supported the Nazis include the,
Agency of International Development American Civil Liberties Union American Council of Race Relations American Press Institute Anti-Defamation League Arab Bureau Aspen Institute Association of Humanistic Psychology Battelle Memorial Institute Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences Center for Constitutional Rights Center for Cuban Studies Center for Democratic Institutions Christian Socialist League Communist League Environmental Fund Fabian Society Ford Foundation Foundation for National Progress German Marshall Fund Hudson Institute Institute for Pacific Relations Institute on Drugs Crime and Justice International Institute for Strategic Studies Mellon Institute Metaphysical Society Milner Group Mont Pelerin Society National Association for the Advancement of Colored People National Council of Churches New World Foundation Rand Institute Stanford Research Institute Tavistock Institute of Human Relations Union of Concerned Scientists International Red Cross the YMCA
Agency of International Development
American Civil Liberties Union
American Council of Race Relations
American Press Institute
Anti-Defamation League
Arab Bureau
Aspen Institute
Association of Humanistic Psychology
Battelle Memorial Institute
Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences
Center for Constitutional Rights
Center for Cuban Studies
Center for Democratic Institutions
Christian Socialist League
Communist League
Environmental Fund
Fabian Society
Ford Foundation
Foundation for National Progress
German Marshall Fund
Hudson Institute
Institute for Pacific Relations
Institute on Drugs
Crime and Justice
International Institute for Strategic Studies
Mellon Institute
Metaphysical Society
Milner Group
Mont Pelerin Society
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
National Council of Churches
New World Foundation
Rand Institute
Stanford Research Institute
Tavistock Institute of Human Relations
Union of Concerned Scientists
International Red Cross
the YMCA
David N. Gibbs, associate professor of political science at the University of Arizona, noted that the intelligence community has long taken advantage of academia to propagate their views and philosophies - as always, through the distribution of money.
He wrote:
"While pundits never tire of the cliché that American universities are dominated by leftist faculty who are hostile toward the objectives of established foreign policies, the reality is altogether different: The CIA has become 'a growing force on campus,' according to a recent article in the Wall Street Journal. The 'Agency finds it needs experts from academia, and colleges pressed for cash like the revenue.' Longstanding academic inhibitions about being publicly associated with the CIA have largely disappeared: in 2002, former CIA director Robert Gates became president of Texas A & M University, while the new president of Arizona State University, Michael Crow, was vice chairman of the agency's venture-capital arm, In-Q-Tel Inc... The CIA has created a special scholarship program, for graduate students able and willing to obtain security clearances. According to the London Guardian, 'the primary purpose of the program is to promote disciplines that would be of use to intelligence agencies.' And throughout the country, academics in several disciplines are undertaking research (often secret) for the CIA."
"While pundits never tire of the cliché that American universities are dominated by leftist faculty who are hostile toward the objectives of established foreign policies, the reality is altogether different: The CIA has become 'a growing force on campus,' according to a recent article in the Wall Street Journal.
The 'Agency finds it needs experts from academia, and colleges pressed for cash like the revenue.' Longstanding academic inhibitions about being publicly associated with the CIA have largely disappeared:
in 2002, former CIA director Robert Gates became president of Texas A & M University, while the new president of Arizona State University, Michael Crow, was vice chairman of the agency's venture-capital arm, In-Q-Tel Inc...
The CIA has created a special scholarship program, for graduate students able and willing to obtain security clearances.
According to the London Guardian,
'the primary purpose of the program is to promote disciplines that would be of use to intelligence agencies.'
And throughout the country, academics in several disciplines are undertaking research (often secret) for the CIA."
American youth were educated in the principles of National Socialism before World War II. In 1935, Ernst Mueller, head of the German-American Settlement League, acquired lakeside property in Yaphank, Long Island, and invited Americans of German descent to visit and relax.
He also formed a group called the German-American Youth. The youth in Yaphank constructed tents on platforms, called Camp Siegfried.
Gustave Neuss, the grandson of German immigrants, whose father served as a judge in Yaphank, recalled:
"Some of the parents complained about the harsh conditions and at least one removed her daughter from the camp because of this. The regimen included education in pro-Nazi doctrine to ensure a new generation having the pure Aryan philosophy."
Neuss's father initially was friendly with the German organization but soon turned against them because of their anti-Semitism and un-American speeches. The youth organization was part of the German-American Bund, an anti-Semitic fraternal group formed in the 1930s by a merger of the National Socialist German Workers Party and the Free Society of Teutonia. German-American Bund activity was not limited to Yaphank and the New York City area.
Neuss wrote:
"Groups of the pro-Nazis were located throughout the United States. Hitler's claim was that after he had conquered Europe he would then take over the USA. The Bund and other pro-German groups located throughout the country provided a cadre of subversives to assist in such a takeover."
"Groups of the pro-Nazis were located throughout the United States. Hitler's claim was that after he had conquered Europe he would then take over the USA.
The Bund and other pro-German groups located throughout the country provided a cadre of subversives to assist in such a takeover."
Although many German-American organizations existed in the prewar United States, the Bund was among the only ones to express support for Nazi ideals.
In February 1939, Bund leader Fritz Kuhn addressed a crowd of about twenty thousand in Madison Square Garden and railed against President "Frank D. Rosenfeld" and the "Bolshevik-Jewish conspiracy" threatening America.
Once the nation entered the war, some Bund members fled the country while others were placed in internment camps. Although the American Nazi Bund never developed into a serious threat - even Hitler tried to distance himself from it - the subversion of the educational process under which it prospered continued.
The National Teachers Association, now known as the National Education Association (NEA), was founded in 1850 as a professional teacher organization, but today has become the largest labor union in the United States, representing almost 3 million educators.
In 1966, the NEA merged with the American Teachers Association, an organization primarily concerned with education in the black community, yet another special interest of the Rockefellers, who funneled money into black education programs and organizations.
By 1964, Rockefeller's General Education Board had spent more than $3.2 million in gifts to support black education, criticized by some as merely a means to instill white values and worldviews in black students. According to William H. Watkins, author of The White Architects of Black Education: Ideology and Power in America, 18651954, John D. Rockefeller Sr. was more concerned with shaping a new industrial social order than providing a useful education.
"The Rockefeller group demonstrated how gift- giving could shape education and public policy," commented Watkins.
Conservative Republican Pat Buchanan decried the efforts of the NEA as a negative influence on American education.
In a 1999 interview, he stated that,
"ever since the judges have gotten heavily into education, and the National Education Association has gotten into control of the Department of Education, test scores go down, there's violence in classroom, things are going wrong."
Criticism also has been leveled at the NEA Ex-Gay Educators Caucus, whose literature states the purpose of the caucus is to "work within the NEA to make policy changes to ensure that the Ex-Gay voice is heard."
Opposing the Ex-Gay Educators Caucus at the 2004 NEA National Convention was Kevin Jennings, a former private-school teacher in Massachusetts and founder of the Gay Lesbian Straight Education Network, who has partnered with the NEA in,
promoting acceptance of homosexuality using curriculum materials in the nation's schools, beginning as early as kindergarten and the elementary grades.
At the convention, Jennings was presented the NEA's human rights "creative leadership" award. Education today is mixing drugs with student control.
In years past, if a child was acting up or caught staring out the window, he or she received a rap on the knuckles with a ruler and was told to stay with the rest of the class.
Today, the child is sent to the school nurse, who oftentimes tells the parents the student has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and recommends the administration of Prozac (94% sodium fluoride) or Ritalin, psychotropic drugs that have been shown to produce psychosis in lab rats.
At least one state has put a stop to this practice.
In 2001, the Connecticut House voted 1410 on a law prohibiting school personnel from recommending to parents that their children take Ritalin or other mood- altering drugs.
Republican State Representative Lenny Winkler, one of the bill's primary sponsors, quoted studies showing the number of children taking Ritalin nationally jumped from 500,000 in 1987 to more than 6 million by 2001.
The bill also prohibited the state's Department of Children and Families from taking children away from parents who decline to put their children on mood- altering drugs. A 1999 study at the Human Development Center at the University of Wisconsin in Eau Claire found that thirteen "ADHD" children on medication, over four years, performed progressively worse on standardized tests than a group of thirteen normal children with similar IQs and other characteristics.
Another study, by Dr. Gretchen LeFever, an assistant professor of pediatrics and psychiatry at Eastern Virginia Medical School, revealed that while children in her community used the drug Ritalin two to three times more than the national rate, their academic performance in relation to their peers showed no improvement.
For her persistence in questioning the rising incidence of drug use in school-children, Dr. LeFever was fired in 2005. Psychiatrist Peter Breggin, in his 1991 book Toxic Psychiatry, wrote:
"Hyperactivity is the most frequent justification for drugging children. The difficult-to-control male child is certainly not a new phenomenon, but attempts to give him a medical diagnosis are the product of modern psychology and psychiatry. At first psychiatrists called hyperactivity a brain disease. When no brain disease could be found, they changed it to 'minimal brain disease' (MBD). When no minimal brain disease could be found, the profession transformed the concept into 'minimal brain dysfunction.' When no minimal brain dysfunction could be demonstrated, the label became 'attention deficit disorder.' Now it's just assumed to be a real disease, regardless of the failure to prove it so. 'Biochemical imbalance' is the code word, but there's no more evidence for that than there is for actual brain disease."
"Hyperactivity is the most frequent justification for drugging children. The difficult-to-control male child is certainly not a new phenomenon, but attempts to give him a medical diagnosis are the product of modern psychology and psychiatry.
At first psychiatrists called hyperactivity a brain disease. When no brain disease could be found, they changed it to 'minimal brain disease' (MBD).
When no minimal brain disease could be found, the profession transformed the concept into 'minimal brain dysfunction.' When no minimal brain dysfunction could be demonstrated, the label became 'attention deficit disorder.'
Now it's just assumed to be a real disease, regardless of the failure to prove it so.
'Biochemical imbalance' is the code word, but there's no more evidence for that than there is for actual brain disease."
Alan Larson, a former secretary of the Oregon Federation of Independent Schools, criticized the expanding diagnosis of attention deficit disorder (ADD) and was an outspoken critic of the indiscriminate use of drugs, proclaiming,
"[T]he labeling of children with ADD is not because of a problem the kids have; it is because of a problem teachers who cannot tolerate active children have."
According to John Cornwell, author of Hitler's Scientists, the center of psychoanalysis shifted from Germany to the United States after the war.
"[M]any of the homegrown analysts were German trained," he noted.
This charge was echoed by Dr. Thomas Roeder, Volker Kubillus, and Anthony Burwell in their book Psychiatrists - the Men Behind Hitler.
"In the period since 1971," they wrote, "child and adolescent psychiatry developed completely along the theoretical and methodological lines developed by its Nazi- era founders."
The influx of Nazi-trained psychiatrists after World War II, particularly in the military and intelligence fields, has produced a blossoming of psychological disorders.
The American Psychiatric Association, in its 1952 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM), defined only 112 mental disorders.
By the publication of DSM-IV in 1994, the number had grown to 374.
"Today, though psychiatry may still be suspect among the public, it has won over both government and the media. The profession and its treatments inundate talk shows, magazines, and the front pages of our newspapers",
...wrote Bruce Wiseman, the U.S. national president of the Citizens Commission on Human Rights and former chairman of the history department at John F. Kennedy University.
In the 1970s, when the drug companies tried to find substitutes for LSD because of its serious side effects, they developed the antidepressant Prozac (fluoxetine) followed by Zoloft (sertraline), Effexor (venlafaxine), and Paxil (paroxetine).
Dr. Helmut Remschmidt, who directed the Society for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry until 1984, was a leader in research into hyperactivity in children.
He studied under Dr. Hermann Stutte, who was associated with Nazi psychiatrists involved in the German euthanasia program and had received his doctorate from Robert Sommer, director of the Deutscher Verband fur psychische Hygiene, or the German Association for Mental Hygiene.
Dr. Remschmidt, long after the war, still pointed to "a genetic answer" to hyperactivity and was a leading proponent of the use of drugs such as Ritalin.
"It is by no means shocking for Remschmidt to be a prominent advocate of horrible things," commented Roeder, Kubillus, and Burwell. "After all, he is a disciple and protégé of Nazis... What is equally frightening and obvious is that the racist and elitist theories of the original child psychiatrists - as documented in 1940 at the First Congress - have not only survived but flourished. It has been a natural passage of poison from teacher to student, from the Nazis to subsequent generations of child and adolescent psychiatrists. The efforts 'to spot and screen' - that is, to distinguish between the valuable and less valuable human beings - are more than dubious - they are indefensible."
"It is by no means shocking for Remschmidt to be a prominent advocate of horrible things," commented Roeder, Kubillus, and Burwell.
"After all, he is a disciple and protégé of Nazis... What is equally frightening and obvious is that the racist and elitist theories of the original child psychiatrists - as documented in 1940 at the First Congress - have not only survived but flourished.
It has been a natural passage of poison from teacher to student, from the Nazis to subsequent generations of child and adolescent psychiatrists.
The efforts 'to spot and screen' - that is, to distinguish between the valuable and less valuable human beings - are more than dubious - they are indefensible."
Yet, the number of child psychologists in U.S. schools grew from a mere 500 in 1940 to more than 22,000 by 1990. According to Kelly Patricia O'Meara, a former chief of staff in the U.S. House of Representatives, whose investigative reports on child vaccines and mood- altering drugs prompted congressional hearings,
"Thirty years ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) concluded that Ritalin was pharmacologically similar to cocaine in the pattern of abuse it fostered, and cited it as a Schedule II drug - the most addictive in medical use. The Department of Justice also cited Ritalin as a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act, and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) warned that 'Ritalin substitutes for cocaine and d-amphetamine in a number of behavioral paradigms.'"
"Thirty years ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) concluded that Ritalin was pharmacologically similar to cocaine in the pattern of abuse it fostered, and cited it as a Schedule II drug - the most addictive in medical use.
The Department of Justice also cited Ritalin as a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act, and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) warned that 'Ritalin substitutes for cocaine and d-amphetamine in a number of behavioral paradigms.'"
O'Meara pointed to a 2001 study at the Brookhaven National Laboratory that confirmed the similarities between cocaine and Ritalin, but found that Ritalin is more potent than cocaine in its effect on the dopamine system, an area of the brain many doctors believe is most affected by these drugs. Drugs such as Ritalin, now used to treat questionable mental afflictions, are taken by tens of millions of American youngsters. A 1986 edition of The International Journal of the Addictions listed 105 adverse reactions to Ritalin, including suicidal tendencies. Americans wonder why there has been a rash of school shootings and teen suicides in recent years, yet virtually all of these killings have involved a student on mood- altering drugs or just coming off them.
In five cases of school shootings between March 1998 and May 1999 - including the tragedy at Columbine High School - at least seven of the students involved were being medicated.
It was downplayed but reported that Seung-Hui Cho, the gunman in the Virginia Tech shootings in April 2007, had been undergoing psychological counseling and had prescription psychoactive drugs in his possession. In his book Reclaiming Our Children, psychiatrist and drug critic Dr. Peter Breggin analyzed the clinical and scientific reasons for asserting that Eric Harris's violence at Columbine was caused by the prescription drug Luvox.
"I've also testified to the same under oath in depositions in a case related to Columbine," Breggin wrote, adding, "I also warned that stopping antidepressants can be as dangerous as starting them, since they can cause very disturbing and painful withdrawal reactions."
A Website called TeenScreenTruth is dedicated to gathering information off the Internet to help teens "connect the dots to see the revealing connections" between mood-altering drugs and teen violence.
The Web site states:
"Here's a statistic that is rarely mentioned in news reports: in nearly every school-shooting incident, the children and teens involved were already taking one or more psychiatric drugs or had just recently come off them, and had been under the care of a psychiatrist or mental-health practitioner. The same is true for the majority of child and teen suicides - they were already on some type of psychiatric drug program that was supposed to be treating their 'mental illness' yet they killed themselves anyway."
"Here's a statistic that is rarely mentioned in news reports: in nearly every school-shooting incident, the children and teens involved were already taking one or more psychiatric drugs or had just recently come off them, and had been under the care of a psychiatrist or mental-health practitioner.
The same is true for the majority of child and teen suicides - they were already on some type of psychiatric drug program that was supposed to be treating their 'mental illness' yet they killed themselves anyway."
This assessment was echoed in a 1999 article in Health and Healing by Dr. Julian Whitaker, who stated,
"[V]irtually all of the gun-related massacres that have made headlines over the past decade have had one thing in common: they were perpetrated by people taking Prozac, Zoloft, Luvox, Paxil, or a related antidepressant drug."
In 1998, GlaxoSmithKline, maker of Paxil, was ordered to pay $6.4 million to surviving family members after Donald Schnell, sixty, flew into a rage and killed his wife, daughter, and granddaughter just forty-eight hours after taking Paxil. The TeenScreenTruth site and the Indianapolis Star compiled a list of violent episodes dating as far back as 1985, when Steven W. Brownlee, an Atlanta postal worker on psychotropic drugs, killed two coworkers.
The list includes:
In 1986, fourteen-year-old Rod Mathews of Canton, Massachusetts, beat a classmate to death with a baseball bat while on Ritalin. In 1988, thirty-one-year-old Laurie Dann, who had been taking Anafranil and lithium, walked into a second- grade classroom in Winnetka, Illinois, and began shooting. One child was killed and six wounded. Later that same year, nineteen-year-old James Wilson went on a shooting rampage at the Greenwood, South Carolina, elementary school and killed two eight-year-old girls and wounded seven others. He had been on Xanax, Valium, and five other drugs. In 1989, Patrick Purdy, twenty-five, opened fire on a schoolyard filled with children in Stockton, California. Five kids were killed and thirty wounded. He had been treated with Thorazine and Amitriptyline. In 1993, Steve Lieth of Chelsea, Michigan, walked into a school meeting and shot and killed the school superintendent, wounding two others, while on Prozac. In 1996, ten-year- old Tommy Becton grabbed his three-year- old niece as a shield and aimed a shotgun at a sheriff's deputy who had accompanied a truant officer to his Florida home. He had been on Prozac. In 1997, Michael Carneal, fourteen, opened fire on students at a high school prayer meeting in Heath High in West Paducah, Kentucky. Three died and one was paralyzed. Carneal reportedly was on Ritalin. In 1998, Kip Kinkel, a fifteen-year-old in Springfield, Oregon, murdered his parents and proceeded to his high school, where he went on a rampage, killing two students and wounding twenty-two others. Kinkel had been prescribed both Prozac and Ritalin. In 1998, eleven-year-old Andrew Golden and fourteen-year-old Mitchell Johnson apparently faked a fire alarm at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Arkansas, and shot at students as they left the building. Four students and a teacher were killed. The boys were said to be on Ritalin. In 1999, Shawn Cooper, fifteen, of Notus, Idaho, took a shotgun to school and injured one student. He had been taking Ritalin. On April 20, 1999, Eric Harris, eighteen, and Dylan Klebold, seventeen, shot and killed twelve classmates and a teacher and wounded twenty-four others at Columbine High School in Colorado. Harris had been taking Luvox. In 1999, Todd Cameron Smith walked into a high school in Taber, Alberta, Canada, with a rifle and killed one student and injured another. He had been given a drug after a five- minute phone consultation with a psychiatrist. In 1999, Steven Abrams drove his car into a preschool playground in Costa Mesa, California, killing two. He was on probation with a requirement to take lithium. In 2000, T. J. Solomon, fifteen, opened fire at Heritage High School in Conyers, Georgia, while on a mix of antidepressants. Six were wounded. The same year, Seth Trickey of Gibson, Oklahoma, thirteen, was on a variety of prescription drugs when he opened fire on his middle- school class, injuring five. In 2001, Elizabeth Bush, fourteen, was on Prozac. She shot and wounded another student at Bishop Neumann High in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Also in 2001, Jason Hoffman, eighteen, was on Eff exor and Celexa, both antidepressants, when he wounded two teachers at California's Granite Hills High School. Same year, in Wahluke, Washington, Cory Baadsgaard, sixteen, took a rifle to his high school and held twenty-three classmates hostage. He had been taking Paxil and Effexor. In Osaka, Japan, also in 2001, Mamoru Takuma, thirty-seven, went into a second- grade classroom and started stabbing students. He killed eight. He had taken ten times his normal dose of an antidepressant. In 2005, sixteen-year- old Native American Jeff Weise, on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Minnesota, was under the influence of the antidepressant Prozac when he shot and killed nine people and wounded five before committing suicide. In 2006, Duane Morrison, fifty-three, shot and killed a girl at Platte Canyon High School in Colorado. Antidepressants later were found in his vehicle. Other incidents cited, but not apparently related to schools, included: In 1987, William Cruse was charged with killing six people in Palm Bay, Florida, after taking psychiatric drugs for "several years." The same year, Bartley James Dobben killed his two young sons by throwing them into a 1,300-degree foundry ladle. He had been on a "regimen" of psychiatric drugs. In 1989, Joseph T. Wesbecker, forty-seven, just a month after he began taking Prozac, shot twenty workers at Standard Gravure Corporation in Louisville, Kentucky, killing nine. Eli Lilly, which makes Prozac, later settled a lawsuit brought by survivors. In 1991, sixty-one-year-old Barbara Mortenson was arrested by San Jose, California, police, who said she had "cannibalized" her eighty- seven-year-old mother while on Prozac. In 1992, Lynnwood Drake III shot and killed six in San Luis Obispo and Morro Bay, California. Prozac and Valium were found in his system. In 1993, sixteen-year- old Victor Brancaccio attacked and killed an eighty-one-year-old woman and covered her corpse with red spray-paint. He was two months into a Zoloft regimen. In 1995, while on four medications, including Prozac, Dr. Debora Green set her Prairie Village, Missouri, home on fire, killing her children, ages six and thirteen. In 1996, Kurt Danysh, eighteen, shot and killed his father seventeen days after his first dose of Prozac. He told authorities, "I didn't realize I did it until after it was done... This might sound weird, but it felt like I had no control of what I was doing, like I was left there just holding a gun."
In 1986, fourteen-year-old Rod Mathews of Canton, Massachusetts, beat a classmate to death with a baseball bat while on Ritalin.
In 1988, thirty-one-year-old Laurie Dann, who had been taking Anafranil and lithium, walked into a second- grade classroom in Winnetka, Illinois, and began shooting. One child was killed and six wounded.
Later that same year, nineteen-year-old James Wilson went on a shooting rampage at the Greenwood, South Carolina, elementary school and killed two eight-year-old girls and wounded seven others. He had been on Xanax, Valium, and five other drugs.
In 1989, Patrick Purdy, twenty-five, opened fire on a schoolyard filled with children in Stockton, California. Five kids were killed and thirty wounded. He had been treated with Thorazine and Amitriptyline.
In 1993, Steve Lieth of Chelsea, Michigan, walked into a school meeting and shot and killed the school superintendent, wounding two others, while on Prozac.
In 1996, ten-year- old Tommy Becton grabbed his three-year- old niece as a shield and aimed a shotgun at a sheriff's deputy who had accompanied a truant officer to his Florida home. He had been on Prozac.
In 1997, Michael Carneal, fourteen, opened fire on students at a high school prayer meeting in Heath High in West Paducah, Kentucky. Three died and one was paralyzed. Carneal reportedly was on Ritalin.
In 1998, Kip Kinkel, a fifteen-year-old in Springfield, Oregon, murdered his parents and proceeded to his high school, where he went on a rampage, killing two students and wounding twenty-two others. Kinkel had been prescribed both Prozac and Ritalin.
In 1998, eleven-year-old Andrew Golden and fourteen-year-old Mitchell Johnson apparently faked a fire alarm at Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Arkansas, and shot at students as they left the building. Four students and a teacher were killed. The boys were said to be on Ritalin.
In 1999, Shawn Cooper, fifteen, of Notus, Idaho, took a shotgun to school and injured one student. He had been taking Ritalin.
On April 20, 1999, Eric Harris, eighteen, and Dylan Klebold, seventeen, shot and killed twelve classmates and a teacher and wounded twenty-four others at Columbine High School in Colorado. Harris had been taking Luvox.
In 1999, Todd Cameron Smith walked into a high school in Taber, Alberta, Canada, with a rifle and killed one student and injured another. He had been given a drug after a five- minute phone consultation with a psychiatrist.
In 1999, Steven Abrams drove his car into a preschool playground in Costa Mesa, California, killing two. He was on probation with a requirement to take lithium.
In 2000, T. J. Solomon, fifteen, opened fire at Heritage High School in Conyers, Georgia, while on a mix of antidepressants. Six were wounded.
The same year, Seth Trickey of Gibson, Oklahoma, thirteen, was on a variety of prescription drugs when he opened fire on his middle- school class, injuring five.
In 2001, Elizabeth Bush, fourteen, was on Prozac. She shot and wounded another student at Bishop Neumann High in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
Also in 2001, Jason Hoffman, eighteen, was on Eff exor and Celexa, both antidepressants, when he wounded two teachers at California's Granite Hills High School.
Same year, in Wahluke, Washington, Cory Baadsgaard, sixteen, took a rifle to his high school and held twenty-three classmates hostage. He had been taking Paxil and Effexor.
In Osaka, Japan, also in 2001, Mamoru Takuma, thirty-seven, went into a second- grade classroom and started stabbing students. He killed eight. He had taken ten times his normal dose of an antidepressant.
In 2005, sixteen-year- old Native American Jeff Weise, on the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Minnesota, was under the influence of the antidepressant Prozac when he shot and killed nine people and wounded five before committing suicide.
In 2006, Duane Morrison, fifty-three, shot and killed a girl at Platte Canyon High School in Colorado. Antidepressants later were found in his vehicle. Other incidents cited, but not apparently related to schools, included:
In 2006, Duane Morrison, fifty-three, shot and killed a girl at Platte Canyon High School in Colorado. Antidepressants later were found in his vehicle.
Other incidents cited, but not apparently related to schools, included:
In 1987, William Cruse was charged with killing six people in Palm Bay, Florida, after taking psychiatric drugs for "several years."
The same year, Bartley James Dobben killed his two young sons by throwing them into a 1,300-degree foundry ladle. He had been on a "regimen" of psychiatric drugs.
In 1989, Joseph T. Wesbecker, forty-seven, just a month after he began taking Prozac, shot twenty workers at Standard Gravure Corporation in Louisville, Kentucky, killing nine. Eli Lilly, which makes Prozac, later settled a lawsuit brought by survivors.
In 1991, sixty-one-year-old Barbara Mortenson was arrested by San Jose, California, police, who said she had "cannibalized" her eighty- seven-year-old mother while on Prozac.
In 1992, Lynnwood Drake III shot and killed six in San Luis Obispo and Morro Bay, California. Prozac and Valium were found in his system.
In 1993, sixteen-year- old Victor Brancaccio attacked and killed an eighty-one-year-old woman and covered her corpse with red spray-paint. He was two months into a Zoloft regimen.
In 1995, while on four medications, including Prozac, Dr. Debora Green set her Prairie Village, Missouri, home on fire, killing her children, ages six and thirteen.
In 1996, Kurt Danysh, eighteen, shot and killed his father seventeen days after his first dose of Prozac. He told authorities, "I didn't realize I did it until after it was done... This might sound weird, but it felt like I had no control of what I was doing, like I was left there just holding a gun."
It would appear that German drug science and German psychiatry have provided the foundation for action toward today's schoolchildren who are being increasingly steered to drugs for any complaint, from true antisocial behavior to mere daydreaming. And why hasn't the "watchdog" media put these stories together and presented it to the public?
Direct-to-consumer pharmaceutical advertising grew from $791 million in 1996 to more than $3.8 billion by 2004.
Those familiar with this subject claim media executives fear the loss of advertising revenues from the giant pharmaceutical corporations, some of the largest advertisers in the nation.
Why haven't physicians spoken out about this? Many have, but they don't receive significant coverage in the corporate mass media, and many more fear reprisals from both the drug corporations and the federal government.
Additionally, corporate drugs are heavily promoted to physicians.
"The pharmaceutical companies send representatives to physicians' offices talking about their drugs, giving free samples of their drugs, those types of things. That effort dwarfs the [pharmaceutical corporations'] advertising expenditures," explained Alan Mathios, a dean at the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University.
"The pharmaceutical companies send representatives to physicians' offices talking about their drugs, giving free samples of their drugs, those types of things.
That effort dwarfs the [pharmaceutical corporations'] advertising expenditures," explained Alan Mathios, a dean at the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University.
But the education issue that has drawn the greatest recent controversy is Public Law 107-110, better known as the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB), a prized legacy of the Bush administration.
According to the act, its purpose is,
"to ensure that all children have a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to obtain a high-quality education and reach, at a minimum, proficiency on challenging state academic achievement standards and state academic assessments."
Signed into law by President George W. Bush on January 8, 2002, the act nevertheless brought immediate criticism from educators, state authorities, and libertarians alike.
They questioned the act's sweeping proposals, which range from forcing teachers to conform to federally mandated curricula to inflicting monetary punishments on school districts that do not live up to federal expectation, and even taking state control or turning them over to private management companies.
They also questioned the $410 million apportioned for the education of migratory children, most of whom come from the families of illegal aliens. Standardized testing has proven a handicap to children who speak English as a second language. While no caring person would want to be caught leaving some poor child "behind," there was nevertheless the irksome feeling by many that the act was a thinly disguised attempt to force conformity on students and standardize the minds of American youth.
It smacks of the same uniformity of education sought by the National Socialists under Hitler. Some conservatives and libertarians even claim that the act is an usurpation of state authority by the federal government.
In 2007, the new Congress began taking steps to protect states from the controls and punishments of NCLB.
For example, in 2005, when Utah passed a state law allowing school districts to ignore portions of NCLB, the Department of Education threatened to withhold federal education funds. The backbone of NCLB is federally mandated standardized testing, which long has been accused of cultural bias.
In fact, the entire practice of testing as a determinant of educational quality has been called into question, because the emphasis on tests forces teachers to teach only material that will get students to pass the tests, leaving a deficiency in grasping greater understanding and thinking critically.
It should also be realized that both the textbook publishers and the standardized testing firms are, for the most part, controlled by the same globalist corporations under discussion. The act rewards districts with better test scores, so critics claim that schools lower their standards to show improvement on test scores. The kids are not learning more, just being assessed differently.
A 2007 report from the Center on Education Policy (CEP) indicated increased test scores in reading and math, but it was unclear if this reflected enhanced learning or lower standards on student tests.
"Look at any state that has a 90 percent proficiency level with lots of students in poverty," commented Jack Jennings, president and CEO of CEP. "That doesn't happen without either an extraordinary effort to raise the quality of education for all students or setting lower standards."
"Look at any state that has a 90 percent proficiency level with lots of students in poverty," commented Jack Jennings, president and CEO of CEP.
"That doesn't happen without either an extraordinary effort to raise the quality of education for all students or setting lower standards."
Another portion of the NCLB Act that rankled libertarians was Section 9528, which requires schools to give military recruiters the name, home phone number, and address of every enrolled student.
Schools are not required to tell the students or parents that their information has been passed on, but students can ask to not have their contact information shared. But filing the required form often means student information is withheld from universities and job recruiters as well as the military. Unlike the Nazis, who placed great emphasis on athletics and physical fitness, the NCLB Act narrowly focuses on two main skills: reading and math.
As a result, there are claims that other areas of schooling have been neglected, especially physical education. This idea was reinforced by recent data from the Centers for Disease Control, showing kids between the ages of six and nineteen, some nine million youngsters, suffer from obesity.
"With the obesity rates going up and it's in our face, why are we cutting PE time? I don't get it," questioned PE teacher Garrett Lydic, Delaware's 2006 Teacher of the Year. "The focus right now is on testing," he said, referring to a series of academic tests now mandated by federal law. "The result is that there's less time to get kids more active.""It's a stretch even to call the law 'well-intentioned' given that its creators, including the Bush administration and the right-wing Heritage Foundation [Paul Weyrich, its founder, has been accused of ties to Nazi collaborators] want to privatize public education. Hence NCLB's merciless testing, absurd timetables and reliance on threats," commented USA Today education writer Alfie Kohn. "No wonder 129 education and civil rights organizations have endorsed a letter to Congress deploring the law's overemphasis on standardized testing and punitive sanctions. No wonder 30,000 people [mid-2007] have signed a petition at educatorroundtable.org calling the law 'too destructive to salvage.' "
"With the obesity rates going up and it's in our face, why are we cutting PE time? I don't get it," questioned PE teacher Garrett Lydic, Delaware's 2006 Teacher of the Year.
"The focus right now is on testing," he said, referring to a series of academic tests now mandated by federal law. "The result is that there's less time to get kids more active.""It's a stretch even to call the law 'well-intentioned' given that its creators, including the Bush administration and the right-wing Heritage Foundation [Paul Weyrich, its founder, has been accused of ties to Nazi collaborators] want to privatize public education.
Hence NCLB's merciless testing, absurd timetables and reliance on threats," commented USA Today education writer Alfie Kohn.
"No wonder 129 education and civil rights organizations have endorsed a letter to Congress deploring the law's overemphasis on standardized testing and punitive sanctions.
No wonder 30,000 people [mid-2007] have signed a petition at educatorroundtable.org calling the law 'too destructive to salvage.' "
Like Hitler, the globalist creators of a new empire carry an innate distrust of education that might explain why their education programs appear to savage true learning.
"I do not wish any intellectual upbringing whatsoever, knowledge may only demoralize youth," Adolf Hitler once said.
He echoed the statement of John D. Rockefeller, founder of the National Education Board, who said,
"I don't want a nation of thinkers. I want a nation of workers."
Hitler also felt that intellectuals might not only present a rival to Nazi ideology but could form a group separate from the common man through a feeling of superiority due to their knowledge and education.
"What we suffer from today is an excess of education," he stated in 1938. "What we require is instinct and will."
Hitler's sentiment was echoed recently by President George W. Bush.
Journalist Ron Suskind, writing in the New York Times Magazine, reported an incident in Washington:
"Forty democratic senators were gathered for a lunch in March [2004] just off the Senate floor. I was there as a guest speaker. Joe Biden was telling a story, a story about the president. 'I was in the Oval Office a few months after we swept into Baghdad,' he began, 'and I was telling the president of my many concerns.' ... Bush, Biden recalled, just looked at him, unflappably sure that the United States was on the right course and that all was well. 'Mr. President,' I finally said, 'How can you be so sure when you know you don't know the facts?' Biden said that Bush stood up and put his hand on the senator's shoulder. 'My instincts,' he said. 'My instincts.'"
"Forty democratic senators were gathered for a lunch in March [2004] just off the Senate floor. I was there as a guest speaker. Joe Biden was telling a story, a story about the president.
'I was in the Oval Office a few months after we swept into Baghdad,' he began, 'and I was telling the president of my many concerns.' ...
Bush, Biden recalled, just looked at him, unflappably sure that the United States was on the right course and that all was well.
'Mr. President,' I finally said, 'How can you be so sure when you know you don't know the facts?'
Biden said that Bush stood up and put his hand on the senator's shoulder.
'My instincts,' he said. 'My instincts.'"
The Fourth Reich in America, it seems, is guided by "instincts," just as during Hitler's Reich.
One major difference between the Third Reich and the Fourth is the lack of emphasis on flag ceremonies and repetitious pledges. In Nazi Germany, a school day did not pass without these ceremonies of the state. But in multicultural and globalized America, although schoolchildren still recite the Pledge of Allegiance and raise the U.S. flag, any formal ceremony has dropped away.
Today, hardly any American - child or adult (with the possible exception of some Girl and Boy Scouts) - knows or observes proper flag protocols. If the Pledge of Allegiance is used in schools, it is generally spoken over the loudspeaker. Students can recite along or not, as they will. If they can obtain a note from their parents, they are not even required to stand.
Patriotic allegiance to one's nation is not conducive to the globalists' agenda of borderless countries under the control of multinational corporations. Today, such nationalistic trappings have been replaced by ubiquitous corporate logos and slogans. More and more educational programs are being underwritten - and guided - by corporate officials.
President Bush's secretary of education Margaret Spellings hosted the 2006-07 Siemens Competition in Math, Science, and Technology.
In May 2006, she told attendees of the first National Summit on the Advancement of Girls in Math and Science in Washington, D.C.,
"I recently met with George Nolen, president and CEO of Siemens Corporation, and I look forward to working with him on President Bush's American Competitiveness Initiative."
Business leaders began to realize that education had failed to keep up with the corporatism of America.
Prudential CEO Art Ryan complained that hiring high school graduates today is a high risk.
"They can't do many of the things you would like them to do. But have high schools changed to reflect that economy? I would argue not enough."
"They can't do many of the things you would like them to do.
But have high schools changed to reflect that economy? I would argue not enough."
Another rising concern in education that can be traced back to corporate intrusion is the rise of advertising in schools.
According to a debate posted on the official NEA Web site, teachers have complained that getting kids to buy products, feel good about a corporation, or adopt the viewpoints of an industry on an important issue is not the purpose of education and that promotional sponsored education materials blur the line between education and propaganda and lead to distorted lessons. Manny Lopez, a fourth-grade teacher at the International Community School in Oakland, California, warned,
"Upon entering our schools, advertisers would dictate the placement of their billboards, banners, and lightboxes. The highly visible areas normally reserved for students' artwork, bulletin boards, and school/community message centers would be taken over. It would only be a matter of time before advertisers would attempt to have a hand in the curriculum, molding a school into a corporate image."
"Upon entering our schools, advertisers would dictate the placement of their billboards, banners, and lightboxes.
The highly visible areas normally reserved for students' artwork, bulletin boards, and school/community message centers would be taken over. It would only be a matter of time before advertisers would attempt to have a hand in the curriculum, molding a school into a corporate image."
Retired Georgia teacher Elizabeth Gould wrote,
"[Advertising] gives students a warped sense of the world. They think everything is up for sale - ethics, morals, children."
Arguing in favor of school advertising, Kathleen McMahon, a fourth-grade teacher at Alice Costello School in Brooklawn, New Jersey, said,
"In an ideal world, schools would have all the money they need to fund programs and buy equipment, but we're not living in Utopia. Public and private colleges accept money from plutocrats every day."
Gary Ruskin, writing in Advertising Age magazine, urged advertisers to exercise self-restraint or face future legal restrictions.
He noted,
"Advertisers are being expelled from schools in droves. Channel One, the in-school advertising service, was removed last school year from Nashville, and will soon be kicked out of Seattle. New restrictions on the marketing or sale of soda or junk food in school have been approved in places such as California, Texas, New York City and Philadelphia."
"Advertisers are being expelled from schools in droves. Channel One, the in-school advertising service, was removed last school year from Nashville, and will soon be kicked out of Seattle.
New restrictions on the marketing or sale of soda or junk food in school have been approved in places such as California, Texas, New York City and Philadelphia."
Corporate involvement with education is not a new idea.
In the late 1800s, a group of Chicago businessmen became concerned that education in Germany and Austria was moving ahead of American education.
"Unlike American schools, German classrooms divided kids into two tracks: one for those destined to become managers and the other for those destined to be their employees," explained Elizabeth Weiss Green writing in U.S. News & World Report.
But even in the 1800s, thoughtful persons questioned the propriety of business guiding education.
"Education would then become an instrument of perpetuating unchanged the existing industrial order of society. Who, then, shall conduct education so that humanity may improve?" questioned John Dewey, the American philosopher, psychologist, and education reformer.
"Education would then become an instrument of perpetuating unchanged the existing industrial order of society.
Who, then, shall conduct education so that humanity may improve?" questioned John Dewey, the American philosopher, psychologist, and education reformer.
In mid-2007, billionaires Bill Gates and Eli Broad announced they had pooled $60 million to finance a campaign to emphasize education in the 2008 elections.
However, the pair's ideas for improving American education were immediately criticized, because the three tenets of their campaign were: making teachers' salary increases dependent on student test scores, keeping students in class with more days and longer hours, and setting federal curriculum standards based on input from corporate leaders.
National Socialism in the Germany of the 1930s made a strong appeal to its youth.
The Nazis fully realized that if the younger generations could be brought to their worldview, the future of National Socialism would be assured.
"Fascism in all countries made a fetish of youthfulness," commented George L. Mosse, author of Nazi Culture. "What a contrast this offered to the elderly politicians haggling in parliaments, or to the fossilized bureaucracies which ran the nations (and the political parties) of Europe."
"Fascism in all countries made a fetish of youthfulness," commented George L. Mosse, author of Nazi Culture.
"What a contrast this offered to the elderly politicians haggling in parliaments, or to the fossilized bureaucracies which ran the nations (and the political parties) of Europe."
Modern America also has witnessed conflict between the younger and older generations.
The genesis of this generational conflict began with the rock- and-roll music of the 1950s and grew full-blown with the Vietnam War, when families were split along lines of age.
The young embraced the antiwar movement while the older generations, tempered by the propaganda of World War II, supported the war policies of Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon. Here again was a reflection of Nazi Germany, where Hitler's promises of a more prosperous future held considerable sway with the younger generations.
"The young were set off against the old," observed Mosse, "and the distinction that was made between the old and young nations was operative within the Volk itself. When Hitler damned the bourgeoisie, he was inveighing against the older generation, brought up under the [First and Second] Empire."
"The young were set off against the old," observed Mosse, "and the distinction that was made between the old and young nations was operative within the Volk itself.
When Hitler damned the bourgeoisie, he was inveighing against the older generation, brought up under the [First and Second] Empire."
This generational conflict, caused by control over popular culture such as music, films, art, etc., was merely another use of the divide- and-conquer tactic. American journalist and educator Milton Mayer was both Jewish and of German ancestry. He traveled in Europe before the war and tried unsuccessfully to gain an audience with Hitler in 1935.
Seven years after the war ended, Mayer traveled in Germany, searching to understand what had made the average German blindly follow National Socialism.
"I never found the average German," he recounted in a 1955 book, "because there is no average German. But I found ten Germans sufficiently different from one another in background, character, intellect, and temperament to represent, among them, some millions or tens of millions of Germans and sufficiently like unto one another to have been Nazis."I found - and find - it hard to judge my Nazi friends," he wrote. "I liked them. I couldn't help it... I was overcome by the same sensation that had got in the way of my newspaper reporting in Chicago years before. I liked Al Capone. I liked the way he treated his mother. He treated her better than I treated mine."
"I never found the average German," he recounted in a 1955 book, "because there is no average German.
But I found ten Germans sufficiently different from one another in background, character, intellect, and temperament to represent, among them, some millions or tens of millions of Germans and sufficiently like unto one another to have been Nazis."I found - and find - it hard to judge my Nazi friends," he wrote.
"I liked them. I couldn't help it... I was overcome by the same sensation that had got in the way of my newspaper reporting in Chicago years before. I liked Al Capone. I liked the way he treated his mother. He treated her better than I treated mine."
Mayer recounted the story of one unnamed German academic, a language teacher, and his experience as Hitler's Third Reich grew in prominence. In light of modern America, it is worth repeating. This teacher said that after 1933 no one seemed to notice the ever-widening gap between the government and the people.
"This separation of government from people, this widening of the gap, took place so gradually and so insensibly, each step disguised (perhaps not even intentionally) as a temporary emergency measure or associated with true patriotic allegiance or with real social purposes. And all the crises and reforms (real reforms, too) so occupied the people that they did not see the slow motion underneath, of the whole process of government growing remoter and remoter."
"This separation of government from people, this widening of the gap, took place so gradually and so insensibly, each step disguised (perhaps not even intentionally) as a temporary emergency measure or associated with true patriotic allegiance or with real social purposes.
And all the crises and reforms (real reforms, too) so occupied the people that they did not see the slow motion underneath, of the whole process of government growing remoter and remoter."
As a scholar, this man was consumed with,
"meetings, conferences, interviews, ceremonies, and, above all, papers to be filled out, reports, bibliographies, lists, questionnaires... It was all rigmarole, of course, but it consumed all one's energies, coming on top of the work one really wanted to do. You can see how easy it was, then, not to think about fundamental things. One had no time. The dictatorship, and the whole process of its coming into being, was above all diverting. It provided an excuse not to think for people who did not want to think anyway. Unconsciously, I suppose, we were grateful. Who wants to think?"
"meetings, conferences, interviews, ceremonies, and, above all, papers to be filled out, reports, bibliographies, lists, questionnaires...
It was all rigmarole, of course, but it consumed all one's energies, coming on top of the work one really wanted to do. You can see how easy it was, then, not to think about fundamental things. One had no time.
The dictatorship, and the whole process of its coming into being, was above all diverting. It provided an excuse not to think for people who did not want to think anyway.
Unconsciously, I suppose, we were grateful.
Who wants to think?"
He said to live in this process required not noticing it.
"Each step was so small, so inconsequential, so well explained or, on occasion, 'regretted,' that, unless one were detached from the whole process from the beginning, unless one understood what the whole thing was in principle, what all these 'little measures' that no 'patriotic German' could resent must some day lead to, one no more saw it developing from day to day than a farmer in his field sees the corn growing. One day it is over his head."
"Each step was so small, so inconsequential, so well explained or, on occasion, 'regretted,' that, unless one were detached from the whole process from the beginning, unless one understood what the whole thing was in principle, what all these 'little measures' that no 'patriotic German' could resent must some day lead to, one no more saw it developing from day to day than a farmer in his field sees the corn growing.
One day it is over his head."
Pastor Martin Niemoeller spoke for men like this academic when he said:
"First they came for the Communists, but I was not a Communist so I did not speak out. Then they came for the Socialists and the Trade Unionists, but I was neither, so I did not speak out. Then they came for the Jews, but I was not a Jew so I did not speak out. And when they came for me, there was no one left to speak out for me."
"First they came for the Communists, but I was not a Communist so I did not speak out. Then they came for the Socialists and the Trade Unionists, but I was neither, so I did not speak out.
Then they came for the Jews, but I was not a Jew so I did not speak out. And when they came for me, there was no one left to speak out for me."
A great part of this hesitancy to resist encroaching fascism was not due to fear, according to the academic Milton Mayer, but to genuine uncertainty that anyone else was seeing the things as he did.
In Nazi Germany, people who questioned the motives behind government policies were deemed alarmists.
In America today, they are called conspiracy theorists.
"[I]n small gatherings of your oldest friends, you feel that you are talking to yourselves, that you are isolated from the reality of things. This weakens your confidence still further and serves as a further deterrent... It is clearer all the time that, if you are going to do anything, you must make an occasion to do it, and then you are obviously a troublemaker. So you wait, and you wait," explained an unnamed teacher quoted by Mayer. "But the one great shocking occasion, when tens or hundreds or thousands will join with you, never comes. That's the difficulty. If the last and worst act of the whole regime had come immediately after the first and smallest, thousands, yes, millions would have been sufficiently shocked... But of course this isn't the way it happens. In between, come all the hundreds of little steps, some of them imperceptible, each of them preparing you not to be shocked by the next."
"[I]n small gatherings of your oldest friends, you feel that you are talking to yourselves, that you are isolated from the reality of things.
This weakens your confidence still further and serves as a further deterrent...
It is clearer all the time that, if you are going to do anything, you must make an occasion to do it, and then you are obviously a troublemaker. So you wait, and you wait," explained an unnamed teacher quoted by Mayer.
"But the one great shocking occasion, when tens or hundreds or thousands will join with you, never comes.
That's the difficulty. If the last and worst act of the whole regime had come immediately after the first and smallest, thousands, yes, millions would have been sufficiently shocked...
But of course this isn't the way it happens. In between, come all the hundreds of little steps, some of them imperceptible, each of them preparing you not to be shocked by the next."
He said that the person who is aware suddenly sees the world in a new way.
"The world you live in - your nation, your people - is not the world you were born in at all. The forms are all there, all untouched, all reassuring, the houses, the shops, the jobs, the mealtimes, the visits, the concerts, the cinema, the holidays. But the spirit, which you never noticed because you made the lifelong mistake of identifying it with the forms, is changed. Now you live in a world of hate and fear, and the people who hate and fear do not even know it themselves; when everyone is transformed, no one is transformed. Suddenly it all comes down, all at once. You see what you are, what you have done, or, more accurately, what you haven't done - for that was all that was required of most of us: that we do nothing... And the people in Germany who, once the war had begun, still thought of complaining, protesting, resisting, were betting on Germany's losing the war. It was a long bet. Not many made it."
"The world you live in - your nation, your people - is not the world you were born in at all. The forms are all there, all untouched, all reassuring, the houses, the shops, the jobs, the mealtimes, the visits, the concerts, the cinema, the holidays.
But the spirit, which you never noticed because you made the lifelong mistake of identifying it with the forms, is changed.
Now you live in a world of hate and fear, and the people who hate and fear do not even know it themselves; when everyone is transformed, no one is transformed.
Suddenly it all comes down, all at once. You see what you are, what you have done, or, more accurately, what you haven't done - for that was all that was required of most of us: that we do nothing...
And the people in Germany who, once the war had begun, still thought of complaining, protesting, resisting, were betting on Germany's losing the war.
It was a long bet. Not many made it."
Of particular concern to Americans who look beyond the advancing fascist agenda is the question of who will come to their rescue? Nazi-occupied Europe, and even many Germans toward the end of the war, looked hopefully to the Allied nations for their liberation.
If America, today the world's foremost empire - a new Reich - falls under fascist domination, where can Americans look for deliverance?
Return to Rockefeller Internationalism
Return to The Controlled Global Education
Return to Globalization - The Octopus of The New World Order
