# New World Order or Occult Secret Destiny?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_nwo22.htm

by Terry Melanson
2001
(Last update: May 2nd, 2005)
from ConspiracyArchive Website
The New Age Movement and Service to The Plan
The New World Order as envisioned by the Elite is hardly a recent undertaking. Theirs is a philosophy rooted in ancient occult traditions. Success is near, and the infiltration of society by New Age occultism is the reason for this success. The New World Order has never been solely about world government, rather, from the beginning its proponents have been privy to secret doctrines and it is a spiritual plan more than anything. If one failed to take into account the occult nature of the New World Order, they would be remiss. The UN and the New Age have been bed-fellows since the beginning. America's secret destiny is the product of Rosicrucian and Freemason forefathers. The New Atlantis as proposed in Francis Bacon's work is almost at hand. The Ancient Mysteries are being studied for illumination and enlightenment by the New World Order's elite. Not to mention the New Age gurus dutifully recruiting on behalf of the Secret Brotherhood. In 1980, Marylin Ferguson compiled and espoused a synthesis involving the theories of transformation and the secret plan of the Aquarian Age. In her studies of the scientific advancements of this age involving entropy and syntropy, holism, holographs, paradigm shifts, the uncertainty principle and evolution, she discovered that,
"for the first time an American renaissance is taking place in all disciplines, breaking the boundaries between them, transforming them at their farthest reacheswhere they all converge." (The Aquarian Conspiracy, p.12)
"for the first time an American renaissance is taking place in all disciplines, breaking the boundaries between them, transforming them at their farthest reacheswhere they all converge."
(The Aquarian Conspiracy, p.12)
Speaking of the networks and web of influence, Ferguson proclaimed:
"There are legions of conspirators... in corporations, universities, hospitals, on the faculties of public schools, in factories, in doctors' offices, in state and federal agencies, on city councils and the White House staff, in state organizations, in virtually all arenas of policy making in the country [U.S.]...[including] at the cabinet level of the United States Government." (ibid. p.24)
"There are legions of conspirators... in corporations, universities, hospitals, on the faculties of public schools, in factories, in doctors' offices, in state and federal agencies, on city councils and the White House staff, in state organizations, in virtually all arenas of policy making in the country [U.S.]...[including] at the cabinet level of the United States Government."
(ibid. p.24)
However, other New Age proponents said that this is inaccurate, in that she had understated the influence of the New Age worldwide, especially in the UN and the EEC. It is no coincidence that America has become the center of New Age and New World Order conspiracies. The Theosophical and Rosicrucian traditions hold that every nation has a spiritual destiny guided by a hierarchy of beings using all ethical (or un-ethical) means of manifesting the "divine plan" through the will of the nation's leaders. A proponent of the New Age and the Secret Brotherhood's plan for a New World Order is Robert Hieronimus. In his book America's Secret Destiny, he traced the spiritual vision of America's founding fathers and the plan's eventual fruition in what we call the New World Order and the New Age Movement (both of which are synonymous). He stresses that the founding fathers of America had the equivalent of "Masters" and were pupils in a sense, much like today's powerful Elite have Masters and Gurus, following the teachings of the Great Plan. According to the Rosicrucians and Theosophists, supporting the divine plan are great beings refered to as masters of the physical and spiritual planes. The evolution of America owes much to the seed thoughts of four mastersKuthumi, El Morya, Rogoczy, and Djwhal Khul. Some of the founders of America may have been consciously or unconsciously students of these teachers, just as some contemporary Americans are pupils of these masters. In fact, the motto of the hierarchy of world teachers is identical with America's destinythe brotherhood of man and the Fatherhood of God. (p. 95) Another writer, from the opposite camp, confirms the assertions of Hieronimus. Willy Peterson writes:
In order to reach their aims of world unity and thus engage the whole world in service to the Plan, "enlightened" Freemasons and New Agers have been pushing for collectivist motifs that promote monistic pantheism and unity. This is why the chief instigators to the globalist League of Nations and the United Nations have been Theosophists, trying to work out the plan. This is why the verbiage and aims at the U.N. is for world peace and brotherhood. It is a spiritual undertaking in a secular world. Lucis Trust has had three think-tanks located at the U.N. Plaza in New York for around fifty years. No wonder the former Assistant Secretary General to the U.N., Robert Muller, is a devoted disciple of Alice Bailey, whose book, A Treatise on White Magic, forms the basis for the Robert Muller schools. (The Leavening)
In order to reach their aims of world unity and thus engage the whole world in service to the Plan, "enlightened" Freemasons and New Agers have been pushing for collectivist motifs that promote monistic pantheism and unity. This is why the chief instigators to the globalist League of Nations and the United Nations have been Theosophists, trying to work out the plan.
This is why the verbiage and aims at the U.N. is for world peace and brotherhood. It is a spiritual undertaking in a secular world. Lucis Trust has had three think-tanks located at the U.N. Plaza in New York for around fifty years. No wonder the former Assistant Secretary General to the U.N., Robert Muller, is a devoted disciple of Alice Bailey, whose book, A Treatise on White Magic, forms the basis for the Robert Muller schools.
(The Leavening)
These people are called the torchbearers or lightbearers of the New World Order. A spiritual plan that has been traced to the time of Nimrod and the Tower of Babel, up through to the Illuminati and onwards.
"A loosely-knit world conspiracy," David Allen Lewis writes, "a so called Network of Illuminists." "Whether the Illuminati has one special organization that is its original descendant... we can be very sure that its philosophical torchbearers are represented by literally hundreds of organizations and individuals in many diverse realms." (Dark Angels of Light)
"A loosely-knit world conspiracy," David Allen Lewis writes, "a so called Network of Illuminists."
"Whether the Illuminati has one special organization that is its original descendant... we can be very sure that its philosophical torchbearers are represented by literally hundreds of organizations and individuals in many diverse realms."
(Dark Angels of Light)
A Blueprint For Destiny
Robert Heironomus says that,
"America's Great Seal may be seen as a blueprint for the elevation of consciousness. It says, in part, that we must transform ourselves before we can change the world, and that it is during the process of self-transformation that we can catch a glimpse of what part we are to play in national and global transformation."
The mandala of the New World Order and Illuminati control.
"Annuit CoeptisHe has Blessed our Beginning", "Novus Ordo SeclorumNew Order of the Ages".
The All-Seeing Eye of Horus, the resurrected Egyptian Sun God, biblically referred to as Lucifer, the angel of light. In occult doctrine it is thought that,
"from the union of spirit and matter (the pyramid is made of stone, rock, and earthand represents the unconscious. The capstone is made of an immaterial substancelight or spiritand is conscious), a new beinga transformed beingis created. The seal's reverse depicts a separation state in the separation of the eye the triangle." "The pyramid exemplifies the initiation stage,... it is the house of initiation, in which the candidate confronts the world of darkness and enters the world of spirit. By passing the tests of the elements, the candidate is initiated into the realm of higher consciousness." (Hieronimus ibid., p.92)
"from the union of spirit and matter (the pyramid is made of stone, rock, and earthand represents the unconscious. The capstone is made of an immaterial substancelight or spiritand is conscious), a new beinga transformed beingis created. The seal's reverse depicts a separation state in the separation of the eye the triangle." "The pyramid exemplifies the initiation stage,... it is the house of initiation, in which the candidate confronts the world of darkness and enters the world of spirit. By passing the tests of the elements, the candidate is initiated into the realm of higher consciousness."
(Hieronimus ibid., p.92)
After successfully completing the initiation process, the candidate is reborn, and joins the single eye in the pyramid. The New World Order, or rather the philosophy its deliverers hold to be true, is one and the same as the New Age ideal of man's divinity and self-transformation. In order to partake in this Gnostic fulfillment of "The Great Plan" one must awaken to the original sin of Lucifer, as proposed to Eve in the Garden of Eden, that "we can be as Gods." (Gen. 3:5) So it is not surprising to find that Christians, specifically, are cited as the main obstacle hindering the success of this New Age-New World Order. The reason for this, is the New Age belief in many "saviors" and "enlightened teachers", masters and gurusit's all good and fine when the goal is the false teaching of man's divinity. The New Agers see many ways to salvation; Christians proclaim that there is only one Way - Jesus Christ.
"For the gate is small, and narrow that leads to life, and few are those who find it." (Matt. 7:14)
The Bible states that this is in reality the "broad way that leads to destruction, and many are those who enter it." (Matt. 7:13) Therefore, the only religion not compatible with The New Age, and hence the coming New World Order, is the belief and strict adherence in the Word God with traditional Christianity being looked upon as particularly pernicious. In Dark Secrets of the New Age, Texe Marrs wrote:
The New Age is a universal open-arms religion that excludes from its ranks only those who believe in Jesus Christ and a Personal God. Buddhists, Shintoist, Satanists, Secular Humanists, witches, witch doctors and shamans All who reject Christianity are invited to become trusted members of the New Age family. Worshippers of separate faiths and denominations are to be unified in a common purpose: THE GLORIFICATION OF MAN.
The Guardians of the Mysteries
Freemasonry, by its own accord, practices the ancient mysteries of Egypt, and has as a primary goal, the re-instatement of this mystery religion for the coming World Order.
The magical mystery religion of Ancient Egypt exercised a great fascination over Renaissance man, which was incorporated intothe newly formedLodges at that time. The mysterious hieroglyphs were considered to be symbols of hidden knowledge. Symbols and gestures became a means of conveying secrets and "truths". The cosmos was seen as an organic unity. It was peopled by a hierarchy of spirits which exercised all kinds of influences and sympathies. The practice of magic became a holy quest. - Michael Rogge, New Age Spirituality: The roots of the New Age Movement Part I
The magical mystery religion of Ancient Egypt exercised a great fascination over Renaissance man, which was incorporated intothe newly formedLodges at that time. The mysterious hieroglyphs were considered to be symbols of hidden knowledge. Symbols and gestures became a means of conveying secrets and "truths". The cosmos was seen as an organic unity. It was peopled by a hierarchy of spirits which exercised all kinds of influences and sympathies. The practice of magic became a holy quest. - Michael Rogge,
New Age Spirituality: The roots of the New Age Movement Part I
Back in 1927, Freemason W.L. Wilmhurst saw the dawning of the Aquarian Age as the fulfillment of the "Plan". In The Meaning of Masonry, p.4, he writes:
In this new Aquarian age, when many individuals and groups are working in various ways for the eventual restoration of the mysteries, an increasing number of aspirants are beginning to recognize that Freemasonry may well be the vehicle for this achievement...
He would be well proud, I'm sure, of today's mainstream acceptance of those very same occult mysteries. Another passage on page 46-47, proves the teaching of Freemasonry is the same as New Age beliefs:
He begins his Masonic career as the natural man; he ends it by becoming through its discipline, a regenerated man... This the evolution of man into supermanwas always the purpose of the ancient Mysteries, and the real purpose of modern Masonry is, not the social and charitable purposes to which so much attention is paid, but the expediting of the spiritual evolution of those who aspire to perfect their own nature and transform it into a more god-like quality.
Freemasonry, through its mysteries, will soon usher in a New World Religion for the New World Order. A modern day Tower of Babel and the ultimate unification of the world's religions. The New Age welcomes these goals and looks to the "light" of Masonry as its esoteric basis for occult initiation into the New World Order.
Benjamin Creme writes:
The New Religion will manifest, for instance, through organizations like Masonry. In Freemasonry is embedded the core or the secret heart of the occult mysteries, wrapped up on number, metaphor and symbol ... - The Reappearance of the Christ and the Masters of Wisdom, p.87
Freemason and co-founder of Lucifer Publishing Company (now called Lucis Trust), Foster Bailey, concurs,
"Is it not possible from a contemplation of this side of Masonic teaching that it may provide all that is necessary for the formulation of a universal religion?" (The Spirit of Masonry, p.113)
"Is it not possible from a contemplation of this side of Masonic teaching that it may provide all that is necessary for the formulation of a universal religion?"
(The Spirit of Masonry, p.113)
Foster Bailey states that Masonry,
"is the descendant of, or is founded upon, a divinely imparted religion..." This religion he explains, "...was the first United World Religion. Then came the era of separation of many religions and sectarianism. Today we are working again towards a World Universal Religion." (ibid p.31)
"is the descendant of, or is founded upon, a divinely imparted religion..." This religion he explains, "...was the first United World Religion. Then came the era of separation of many religions and sectarianism. Today we are working again towards a World Universal Religion."
(ibid p.31)
To biblical students these are shocking admissions and it adds fuel to the charge of a Masonic Antichrist in our midst.
"It is these Mysteries which Christ will restore upon His reappearance," Alice Bailey reveals, "thus reviving the churches in a new form, and restoring the hidden Mystery." (The Reappearance of the Christ, p. 122)
"It is these Mysteries which Christ will restore upon His reappearance," Alice Bailey reveals, "thus reviving the churches in a new form, and restoring the hidden Mystery."
(The Reappearance of the Christ, p. 122)
Bailey is giving these "revelations" by her channeled Master Djwhal Khul a disembodied "Ascended Master". Her "Christ" is indeed the Antichrist in the strictest sense of the word. Antichrist means substitute for or in place of Christ. She goes on to say that,
"These ancient Mysteries were originally given to humanity by the Hierarchy [of which Djwhal Khul is a part of] and contain the entire clue to the evolutionary process, hidden in numbers, in ritual, in words and in symbology; these veil the secret of man's origin and destiny, picturing to him in rite and ritual, the long, long path which he must tread, back into the light." (ibid, p.121-22)
"These ancient Mysteries were originally given to humanity by the Hierarchy [of which Djwhal Khul is a part of] and contain the entire clue to the evolutionary process, hidden in numbers, in ritual, in words and in symbology; these veil the secret of man's origin and destiny, picturing to him in rite and ritual, the long, long path which he must tread, back into the light."
(ibid, p.121-22)
So what do we have here?
The New Age tells its disciples that they are working for the Hierarchy.
The teachings of the New Age are giving by the Hierarchy.
The movement for the installment of the Antichrist is giving the go-ahead by the Hierarchy Djwhal Khul's number one message for New Age disciples is "prepare men for the reappearance of the Christ. This is your first duty." (The Externalization of the Hierarchy, p.614)
The Ancient Mysteries, being practiced by both Freemasonry and the New Age, were giving to humanity by the Hierarchy.
The real purpose of Masonry taught to man, from the Hierarchy is the expediting of the spiritual evolution, to transform their nature into a god-like superman.
The Serpent caused the Fall in the Garden of Eden by giving Eve this very same message.
Man is a god in the making. And as the mystic myths of Egypt, on the potter's wheel, he is being molded. When his light shines out to lift and preserve all things, he receives the triple crown of godhood. - Manly P. Hall, The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, p. 92 European mysticism was not dead at the time the United States of America was founded. The hand of the mysteries controlled in the establishment of the new government for the signature of the mysteries may still be seen on the Great Seal of the United states of America. Careful analysis of the seal discloses a mass of occult and Masonic symbols chief among them, the so-called American Eagle. ... the American eagle upon the Great Seal is but a conventionalized phoenix ... Not only were many of the founders of the United States government Masons, but they received aid from a secret and august body existing in Europe which helped them to establish this country for A PECULIAR AND PARTICULAR PURPOSE known only to the initiated few. - Manly P. Hall, The Secret Teachings of All Ages, pp. XC and XCI
Man is a god in the making. And as the mystic myths of Egypt, on the potter's wheel, he is being molded. When his light shines out to lift and preserve all things, he receives the triple crown of godhood. - Manly P. Hall,
The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, p. 92
European mysticism was not dead at the time the United States of America was founded. The hand of the mysteries controlled in the establishment of the new government for the signature of the mysteries may still be seen on the Great Seal of the United states of America. Careful analysis of the seal discloses a mass of occult and Masonic symbols chief among them, the so-called American Eagle. ... the American eagle upon the Great Seal is but a conventionalized phoenix ... Not only were many of the founders of the United States government Masons, but they received aid from a secret and august body existing in Europe which helped them to establish this country for A PECULIAR AND PARTICULAR PURPOSE known only to the initiated few. - Manly P. Hall,
The Secret Teachings of All Ages, pp. XC and XCI
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The New World Order
Return to The New Age Movement
