# Nicholas Roerich and The Chintamani Stone - A Holy Grail from Sirius?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_shambahla11.htm

by Mark Amaru Pinkham
for Four Corners Magazine
from FourCornersMagazine Website
Mark Amaru Pinkham is the author of Guardians of the Holy Grail: The Knights Templar, John the Baptist and the Water of Life which cover the history of many Holy Grail manifestations, including the Chintamani Stone.
Mark is co-director of the International Order of Gnostic Templars in Sedona (www.GnosticTemplars.org) and leads tours to many sacred places around the world associated with the Knights Templar and the Holy Grail Mysteries (www.BodyMindSpiritJourneys.com).
With the current massive outpouring of information regarding the fabled Holy Grail (or Grails) it is impossible to ignore what may be the very first Holy Grail on Earth, the Chintamani Stone, the Treasure of the World.
Between 1923-1928 this stone, which first manifested on Earth many thousands of years before the Cup of Christ, was taken by the great Russian artist and mystic Nicholas Roerich into the heartland of the Far East in order to reunite it with the mother stone it had been separated from, a massive jewel that resided in Shambhala, the Land of the Immortals.
This Chintamani Stone, which is of extra-terrestrial origin, had supposedly been brought to Earth by emissaries from a planet orbiting the star Sirius and then handed over to Shambhalas principal resident, the elusive King of the World, a monarch known by many mystics in the East but only by a handful of occultists in the West. In regards to its identity in the Holy Grail legends, the Chintamani Stone appears to be synonymous with the Stone of Heaven, the Holy Grail manifestation mentioned by Wolfram von Eschenbach in his famous Grail rendition known as Parzival, which is regarded by most Grail scholars to be the most complete and authoritative of the Grail legends.
The Chintamani Stone certainly fits the profile of Eschenbachs enigmatic Stone of Heaven because, like its literary counterpart, the Treasure of the World is said to possess both the power to make a human immortal, as well as to have come to Earth from Heaven (Sirius), a truth that is supposedly engraved upon it as Sanscrit letters that Roerich once translated as,
Through the Stars I come. I bring the chalice (Grail) covered with the shield.
Like Eschenbachs stone the Chintamani Stone is, apparently, also green in color, since Roerich is on record as also stating that the Chintamani Stone is similar in appearance to a species of meteorite known as Moldavite, which is dark green in color.
If the Chintamani Stone is indeed Eschenbachs Stone of Heaven could it also be the original Philosophers Stone, which legends assert could turn a base metal into gold and a human into an immortal deity? Could it be the original Holy Grail, the one that was later emulated by all Holy Grails, including the Cup of Christ and the wood of the True Cross?
With so much evidence in its support of its power and existence, it does indeed appear that the study of the Chintamani Stone should warrant special consideration in any contemporary Holy Grail research.
The Nature and Purpose of the Chintamani Stone
Information is scant concerning the Chintamani Stone, but supposedly the extra-terrestrial stone is stronger than penetrating Radium and its dynamic rays can instantly increase a persons own vibratory frequency while bestowing upon him or her the ability to see into the past and future, evolve into an immortal human being, or even secure world dominion.
It has also been suggested that the stone can never be adequately tested scientifically because much of it exists in a higher dimensional frequency than the one we exist within.
Other pertinent data regarding the Chintamani Stone maintains that it was brought to Earth by Sirian missionaries during a remote era in order to eventually help precipitate a one-world civilization based upon mutual support, love, and equality. In order to effectuate this lofty goal, the Sirians are believed to have, throughout history, made sure that the stone remained in the possession of certain planetary rulers or organizations that have been in the position of influencing the world on a grand scale.
Since its arrival on Earth, the Chintamani Stone has, for example, been in the possession of he who is the supreme consciousness governing all of the world from an etheric plane, the King of the World, while parts of it have been in the possession of such acclaimed conquerors and empire builders as King Solomon, Genghis Khan and Akbar the Great.
There is some indication that one part of the stone has been the sacred stone of the Kaaba, which has united millions of Moslems around the globe. In recent history it is known that a portion of the Chintamani Stone was given to the founders of the League of Nations, whose stated goals were the creation of a one-world civilization free of hate and war.
This was the stone that Nicholas Roerich carried back to Shambhala following the collapse of that international organization.
One burning question remains in regards to the current whereabouts of the Chintamani Stone. Did Roerich complete his journey to Shambhala? Is the sacred stone back in the Land of the Immortals? Most historians agree that Roerich did not technically reach Shambhala but instead arrived in a Tibetan location which is intimately connected to it.
One such location is Shigatse, home of the Tashilumpo Monastery and headquarters of the Panchen Lama, one of the ruling lamas of Tibet who is sometimes referred to as higher in the planetary spiritual hierarchy than even the Dalai Lama himself. Legends state that there are many underground tunnels connecting the Tashilumpo Monastery with Shambhala, and it is an accepted truth that certain incumbent Panchen Lamas have physically traveled there over the course of many hundreds of years.
The Third Panchen Lama even wrote a book, called Road to Shambhala, within which he outlined directions on how to travel overland to Shambhala. Another salient connection that forever links the Panchen Lama, Shigatze and Shambhala is the Kalachakra Tantra, an intensive form of Tantric Buddhism taught and practiced in both places.
During the time that Roerich would have visited Shigatse the holy Tibetan city was a world headquarters of the Great White Brotherhood and swarming with Ascended Masters, such as Master Koothumi and Master Morya, an adept who taught Nicholas and his wife, Helena, the path of Agni Yoga, an alchemical path based upon the teachings of the Kalachakra.
Previous to Roerichs visit in Tibet Madam Blavatsky had similarly made an excursion to Shigatse to study with the Great White Brotherhood and to acquire information for her tomes on esoteric history, which include Isis Unveiled and The Secret Doctrine.
One of Blavatskys students, Alice Bailey, is noted for having later received numerous transmissions regarding Shambhala and the King of the World from the Master Djwhal Khul, who was a resident of Shigatse at the time.
From Sirius?
Could the Chintamani Stone have really come from Sirius? Did humans have contact with the Sirians in the distant past?
Perhaps. In the last century anthropologists in Mali discovered that some of the African countrys tribes, such as the Dogon and Bozo tribes, claimed to have once had visitations from Sirian missionaries who acted as their teachers.
To prove their claims these tribes revealed some of the obscure information transmitted to them from their mentors, which included a knowledge of the Sirian grouping of three stars, as well as a knowledge of the moons surrounding certain distant planets in our Solar System. Such information could only be acquired through observation with very high-powered telescopes, a luxury these primitive tribes were never in the position to possess.
Robert Temple, author of The Sirius Mystery, which records the history of the Dogon people and their encounters with the Sirians, found another possible Earth link with Sirius soon after his book was published.
Members of Freemasonry, who had long known of Sirius as the Great White Lodge in the Galaxy and commonly depicted it in their lodges as the Blazing Star, contacted Temple and invited him to become an initiate of their organization.
Although Temple could not subsequently find explicit indications that Freemasonry had been in direct contact with Sirian missionaries in the past, he did find intriguing clues connecting them to the star Sirius, including the eye within the triangle symbol which currently surmounts the pyramid on the US seal.
This triangle, an ancient Freemasonic symbol, depicts the Grand Architect of the Universe and is closely associated with what the Dogon refer to as the Eye of the universe, the dwarf star Digitaria, that is part of the trinitized Sirian grouping of stars and recognized by the tribe as the Creator of the Universe.
The US seal eventually became featured on the back of the US dollar bill during the administration of Franklin Roosevelt, who was himself a high-ranking Freemason and Shriner, and before that it was the symbol of the eighteenth century Illuminati, who sought to achieve the Sirian goal of a one-world civilization although it is believed they did so with less than purely altruistic intentions.
Temple also discovered another clue indicating a close connection between the Freemasons and Sirius: the day of US independence by the Freemasonic fathers, July 4th, is one of the days of the year when our Sun is in its closest alignment with Sirius.
The Return of the Chintamani Stone
When Nicholas Roerich was touring Tibet and Mongolia he constantly heard cries among the Buddhist monks of It is the time of Shambhala!
According to the monks the King of the World would soon sweep down from Shambhala with a huge army to destroy all evil upon the Earth before declaring himself our planets eternal ruler.
Supporting his inevitable rule was destined to be the Chintamani Stone, which currently resides in the Kings Tower in the very center of Shambhala.
Roerich and his mentors within the Great White Brotherhood and the Theosophical Society founded by Madam Blavatsky maintain that the army of the King of the World is, in truth, a power emanating from Shambhala that continually raises the frequency of our planet. It was, for example, this power that fueled WWII and, ultimately, led to the fall of the Third Reich, even after the Nazis attempted to harness it for their own self-serving purposes.
Eventually this transformative power will destroy all energetic blockages that exist at a lower frequency than itself (i.e., negativity, greed, control, etc.) while simultaneously accelerating the evolution of all life forms on Earth. Once it has completed its pre-destined goal, state the Theosophists, a planetary civilization based upon love and equality will finally emerge.
Perhaps then the King of the World and his Chintamani Stone will make their presence known universally to all.
Excerpts from Nicholas Roerich - The Life and Art of a Russian Master by Jacqueline Decter
and the Nicholas Roerich Museum
The Treasure of the World - Chintamani by Nicholas Roerich In the Treasure of the World - Chintamani and the Burning of Darkness, we enter the mountains. Both are highly symbolic works illustrating Roerichs belief in the divine fire-agni that in the new Era will be brought out of the mountains to illumine human consciousness. The first work is a visual presentation of the Tibetan Legend of the Steed of Happiness, on whose back the sacred stone Chintamani - treasure of the world is carried down from the mountain heights. As the horse descends the craggy mountain pass, everything around it is illuminated by the blue flame emanating from the chest that contains the sacred stone. The cliffs that line the pass seem to be sentinels carved out of stone, guarding the steeds descent. In the Burning of Darkness the sacred fire is being carried out of an opening in the mountain by a figure in a long white robe. A halo rings his head. Behind him are two similarly garbed and haloed figures. All three are mahatmas. Following them are several figures, heads just visible above a rock. One of them is haloed the others are not. They include a bald figure with a long beard, apparently a rare self- portrait of the artist. The entire nocturnal landscape is bathed in the unearthly blue lights of the sacred flame. The Burning of Darkness by Nicholas Roerich He (Roerich) knew that Shambhala is believed to be the earthly link to heaven and that its realm on earth is a secret valley somewhere deep in the Himalayas. There the great masters or mahatmas of all ages reside, guarding its ancient mysteries until such a time as Rigden Djapo, the legendary ruler of Shambhala, assembles his unconquerable army and leads the warriors in a last battle against the forces of evil. When the enemy has been destroyed, the era of Shambhala - of peace, beauty, and truth will begin. He also knew that for the Buddhists, the path to Shambhala is the path to enlightenment and that righteous seekers are guided on their way by a multitude of symbols, signs and messages.
The Treasure of the World - Chintamani
by Nicholas Roerich
In the Treasure of the World - Chintamani and the Burning of Darkness, we enter the mountains.
Both are highly symbolic works illustrating Roerichs belief in the divine fire-agni that in the new Era will be brought out of the mountains to illumine human consciousness. The first work is a visual presentation of the Tibetan Legend of the Steed of Happiness, on whose back the sacred stone Chintamani - treasure of the world is carried down from the mountain heights.
As the horse descends the craggy mountain pass, everything around it is illuminated by the blue flame emanating from the chest that contains the sacred stone. The cliffs that line the pass seem to be sentinels carved out of stone, guarding the steeds descent.
In the Burning of Darkness the sacred fire is being carried out of an opening in the mountain by a figure in a long white robe. A halo rings his head. Behind him are two similarly garbed and haloed figures. All three are mahatmas. Following them are several figures, heads just visible above a rock.
One of them is haloed the others are not. They include a bald figure with a long beard, apparently a rare self- portrait of the artist. The entire nocturnal landscape is bathed in the unearthly blue lights of the sacred flame.
The Burning of Darkness
He (Roerich) knew that Shambhala is believed to be the earthly link to heaven and that its realm on earth is a secret valley somewhere deep in the Himalayas.
There the great masters or mahatmas of all ages reside, guarding its ancient mysteries until such a time as Rigden Djapo, the legendary ruler of Shambhala, assembles his unconquerable army and leads the warriors in a last battle against the forces of evil.
When the enemy has been destroyed, the era of Shambhala - of peace, beauty, and truth will begin. He also knew that for the Buddhists, the path to Shambhala is the path to enlightenment and that righteous seekers are guided on their way by a multitude of symbols, signs and messages.
Related Report
Chintamani Stone
Return to Shambahla
