# Nuclear Weapons and The Survival of The Homo Sapiens

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalmilitarism68.htm

by Fidel Castro Ruz
October 8, 2010
from
GlobalResearch Website
Spanish version
During the ceremony commemorating the 50th
Anniversary of the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution I expressed
my opinion that,
"The Cuban Revolution, on our small and
ignored island, was newly born, but coming into this world just 90 miles
from the powerful empire, caused it to test the arrogance of the
dominant superpower in our hemisphere and in a large part of the world."
I promised to speak about the statements I had
made to the United Nations two days previously. I warned that our struggle
would be "long and hard." For the time being, I must postpone this task.
Another subject at the moment is more important.
Our people, as many around the world know, are characterized by their high
level of knowledge, which they have achieved during the past five decades,
after the country emerged from its semi-colonized and mono-crop producing
state and its considerable levels of illiterate and semi-illiterate people
with low general education levels and scientific knowledge.
The Cuban people had to be fully informed about
what nuclear energy could mean for the fate of the human species.
"I think - I said verbatim on September 28 -
that it might be a good idea to make known some of these ideas about
what a nuclear weapon is. I have seen images about what critical mass
is, and what its use as a weapon represents: that is to employ the
energy that drives the universe for war."
At "3,000 degrees Celsius,
practically all metals and materials
" melt.
"What would happen then at 10,000 degrees?
[
] Well, an atomic explosion produced by critical mass could reach
millions of degrees.
To give an idea of the destructive power of this
type of energy, I would like to add to this Reflection something that
Harry S. Truman wrote in his diary on July 25, 1945 about a test made in
the state of New Mexico:
"An experiment in the New Mexico desert was
startling, to put it mildly. Thirteen pounds of the explosive caused the
complete disintegration of a steel tower 60 feet high, created a crater
6 feet deep and 1,200 feet in diameter, knocked over a steel tower ½ a
mile away and knocked men down 10,000 yards away. The explosion was
visible for more than 200 miles and audible for 40 miles and more."
In the current stage of the world, when some 200
countries have been recognized as independent states with the right to
participate in
the United Nations -ridiculous legal
fiction - the only chance to forge a ray of hope is by leading the
masses, in a rational and calm way, to the understanding that all the
inhabitants of the planet are facing a grave risk.
Within our limited relations, we have had the opportunity, in less than
three weeks, to receive two eminent figures.
The first one was Alan Robock, an
emeritus researcher and professor at Rutgers University, New Jersey. While
working with a group of courageous colleagues, the US scientist proved the
Nuclear Winter theory and advanced it to
its current level.
Only 100 of the 25,000 strategic nuclear weapons
that exist today would be enough to cause this tragedy, he explained.
The Nuclear Winter theory has shown that,
"If such weapons did not exist, they could
not be used. And at present, there is absolutely no rational argument
for their use. If they cannot be used, they must be destroyed. By doing
so we would protect ourselves from accidents, mistaken calculations or
any bouts of insanity."
"
Any country that at present may be considering the nuclear option must
acknowledge that by adopting such a decision, it would be endangering
not only its own population but the entire world.
"
The use of nuclear weapons in the event of a total attack against an
enemy would be suicidal due to the anomalous cold and darkness caused by
the smoke from the fires generated by the bomb."
Robock quoted Einstein:
"The unleashed power of the atom has changed
everything save our modes of thinking and we thus drift toward
unparalleled catastrophe."
My reply to the noble scientist was:
"It makes no difference if we know about
this, what is needed is for the world to know."
On October 2, another eminent figure of great
authority and prestige arrived in our country, economist Michel
Chossudovsky, the director of the
Center for Research on Globalization and
chief editor of the renowned and increasingly influential
Website Global
Research.
He is an emeritus professor at the University of
Ottawa and a consultant for several international institutions, including,
-
the United Nations Development Program
-
the African Development Bank
-
the United Nations Population Fund
He has an extensive list of other connections
and merits that would take a long time to mention.
One of the first activities of the Canadian economist and writer was a
lecture he gave to students, professors and researchers in economics, at the
Manuel Sanguily Theater, University of Havana. He presented his
lecture and answered all questions in perfect Spanish; a commendable effort.
I noted down the main ideas from his
presentation, especially those related to the risk of war employing atomic
weapons.
"
in the Universities of North America, the
neoliberal economy represents totally fictitious realities. It is very
difficult for economists [
] to analyze the economic reality [
] there
is no notion of the economic actor."
"
the financial manipulation of covert operations by power groups, of
the fraud entailed by this economic system [
] is something beyond the
control of individuals
"
"At present, I would like to focus more on the issue of the military
venture underway. It is an alliance between the United States, NATO and
Israel: a military project, but at the same time, an economic project,
since it is a project aimed at economic conquest."
"
these military operations meet [
] objectives of an economic nature
[
] the major economic objectives are oil and natural gas [
] from the
eastern Mediterranean to the Chinese borders and the Caspian Sea, South
of Saudi Arabia [
] the Middle East-Central Asia. This region -
according to statistics - contains around 60 percent of the world
reserves of oil and natural gas."
"If we compare this to the US reserves; they are 30 times greater. The
United States has less than two percent of the world reserves [
] and
they are unleashing a war [
] to control these resources in the name of
their oil companies [
] the configuration of economic power behind this
war is made up of
oil companies such as British
Petroleum, Chevron, Exxon [
], the big Anglo-American oil companies that
are there and have interests in those regions."
"British Petroleum [
] was formerly the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, but
this Anglo Persian Oil Company was a project of conquest both of Iran
and Iraq after the Second World War
"
"If you add the Muslim countries to Nigeria, Libya, Algeria, Malaysia,
Indonesia and Brunei, they represent 70 percent of the global crude oil
reserves [
] The United States is carrying out a religious war against
the inhabitants of those countries where there is oil. [
] It is a holy
crusade against the Muslim world, but the religious objective is only a
pretext, the justification to unleash such a war. [
]
The statements made
by
Obama, by Hillary Clinton [
] lead us to believe that the
United States, with all its military power and military spending of
nearly 1 trillion dollars a year, is waging a war against
Bin Laden
and Al Qaeda.
"
contradictions of this discourse always come from official sources [
]
the CIA recently published a document revealing that Al Qaeda has less
than 50 members in Afghanistan [
] That war is not against Muslim
terrorists; but the pretext for the war is to fight in favor of
democracy and to remove the evil."
"It is interesting to note that military documents read:
If you know what you want, lets go and
get them, they are evil.
There is lots of rhetoric [
] it is a
discourse that nobody will question, because the authority, President
Obama, comes and says,
We must look for Bin Laden, we do not
know where he is, but if necessary [
] we will go after him with our
nuclear weapons."
"After
September 11, the doctrine of preventive war and preventive
nuclear war was formulated [
] stating that it was fair, based on the
objective of fighting terrorism, to use our nuclear weapons against
them.
And
media distortions presented Bin Laden even as a nuclear
power [
] the so-called non-state nuclear powers [
] non-state
nuclear powers are allied with Iran which, they say, is a nuclear power
even though there is no evidence that Iran has a nuclear weapon."
"
The United States and its allies are threatening Iran with the nuclear
weapon using the justification of the non-existing nuclear weapons in
Iran, and the pretext is that Iran constitutes a threat to global
security."
"This is the current discourse. Unfortunately this discourse has already
been supported by some governments, [
] all the
NATO governments and Israel are
supporting the option of a
preventive nuclear war against Iran
[
], and that Iran supports Bin Laden and that it is necessary to impose
democracy on Iran by employing the nuclear weapon."
"
We are genuinely facing a situation in which the future of humanity is
affected, because a nuclear attack on Iran - as is already being
announced, and war preparations have been underway since 2004 -
would signify, in the first place: that during this war in the Middle
East, Central Asia, currently limited to three theaters Afghanistan,
Iraq and Palestine, we will witness the escalation of this military
process with the possibility of a war scenario that would be the
third world war."
"The Second World War was a series of regional wars [...] war in Europe
[...] war in the Pacific [...] war in Africa [...] several theaters
[...] Today it is the integration of communication systems and the
centralization of the military command in one place: the US Strategic
Command in Nebraska [...]
With the militarization of space using the
system of satellites, the so-called intelligent missile systems, there
was a regionalization of military operations [...] under US military
planning, but coordinated. [...] US Central Command [...] Central Asia
and the Middle East. [...] SOUTHCOM based in Miami. [...] Africa Command
[...] which is based in Europe, not Africa [...]
There is a series of regional commands, but
the dynamics of global war is very different from previous wars [...] a
coordination in real time, unhurried, a single command, the air defense
system of all the countries belonging to NATO, the US and now Israel, is
integrated. [...] we are in a vastly different world, with extremely
sophisticated weapons; in addition to nuclear weapons we also have
electromagnetic weapons, and the coordination of all these operations.
[...]
NATO now also has an integrated military
command, an extremely coherent alliance, which can launch operations
anywhere in the world. [...] yes they do have the capacity, in terms of
weapons of mass destruction, which is incredibly sophisticated."
"All of this is a contract for a few companies that produce the weapons,
in the United States they call it the Defense Contract, the companies
that have agreements with the Defense Department [...] US military
spending represents 75 percent of the revenue from household taxes, not
the entire income of the Federal State, but the income generated from
what individuals and families pay each year [...] more or less $ 1.1
trillion, and military expenditure is about $ 750 billion [...] more or
less, 75 percent. [...] these are the official figures, in reality,
military spending is much higher than that."
"... The US now has a military spending that is a little more than 50
percent of the military spending of all the other countries combined.
[...] Its economy is also extremely biased in favor of a war economy,
with all the consequences of the collapse of social services, health
care."
"The state of poverty that exists in the United States, both due to the
crisis and the military economy, is extremely serious. It is not the
product of a lack of resources, but rather the result of a transfer of
wealth into fewer hands, a stagnation that is caused by the compression
of living standards and also by the states allocation of almost all of
its income to sustain the war economy, on the one hand, and the
so-called bank bailout."
"...in the conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union there
was a kind of understanding [...] I do not know how to say it in Spanish
... an understanding that it would not be used because it was recognized
as a weapon that could wipe out society as a whole.
"First came the doctrine of preventive nuclear war, based on the
reclassification of nuclear weapons as conventional weapons [...] During
the Cold War there was the red telephone, they had to say who was in
Moscow... At the time there was a recognition that it was dangerous,
right? "
"...in 2002 it was as follows: There was a propaganda campaign within
the armed forces saying that tactical nuclear weapons were safe for the
civilian population [...] safe for the surrounding civilian population,
without causing damage to the civilian population around the site of the
blast. This classification was used for the nuclear bomb they called the
mini-nuke - mini-nuke means small nuclear bomb. [...]
According to this ideology, this scientific
falsification, the new generation of nuclear bombs was presented as
being very different from the strategic bomb [...] I have a pack of
cigarettes; I do not know who smokes here, Smoking can damage your
health. [...]
The same thing the Pentagon did, they
changed the label; with the backing of bought or co-opted scientists,
they have changed the label on the nuclear bomb. [...]
This nuclear bomb is safe for
civilians, it is a humanitarian bomb.
I'm not exaggerating; you can consult the
documentation about it. [...] this is internal propaganda, it is
propaganda in the armed forces themselves; these are the words they use
safe for the surrounding civilian population [
] as you know, its as
if you were using a video camera, there is a manual for this bomb.
"Another factor: it is not the commander in chief, that is to say the US
president, who decides to use the nuclear bomb.
The nuclear bomb, reclassified by the Senate
in 2002 with that category - a small bomb, which is up to six times the
Hiroshima bomb - is now part of the arsenal of conventional weapons
[...] in military terminology it is also in the armory, the tool box.
[...] it is in the tool box of the commanding general, three
stars [...] the guy says:
[...] 'here's the mini-Nuke, hes
reading the manual [...] It says right here that you can use that
nuclear bomb.'"
"I'm not exaggerating, once the propaganda
is in the military manuals, it becomes a line of conduct, and the
problem is as follows: the inquisitorial discourse is so sophisticated,
so advanced that it could lead to decisions that are extremely severe
for the future of the human race, and therefore we need to come together
and unite against that military project, that war project."
"I mentioned the $ 750 billion in military spending, and the $1.5
trillion used to bail out the banks, these are the operations that were
implemented in 2008-2009 [...] if military spending is added to the
payments made to the banks, we come to a figure that is greater than all
state revenues. In one year, state revenues are around $ 2.3 trillion.
A large portion of this amount is used to
finance the war and fraud, a product of the economic crisis [...] if we
look at the program implemented under
Bush
[administration] ... it was $
750 billion, and afterwards another similar scheme was implemented at
the beginning of the
Obama mandate [...] a trillion or
so [...] the total of these rescue operations, by various means, is
estimated between 6 and 8 trillion dollars, which would be three or four
times the annual income of the US Federal Government."
"...The State is going to go into debt and those who are monitoring the
state are the banks, right [...] the same people who are the recipients
of the rescue operation in turn are also the creditors of the state, and
that circular process is called financing your debt [...] the banks say:
'Well, they have to give us money,
because we have to finance the debt from the fiscal deficit, due to
both spending on defense and rescue operations.'"
"We are in an extremely serious situation
regarding the US fiscal structure, which is leading to a de facto
privatization of the state, because there is no money to fund health,
education, public works, whatever. Then, gradually, it is a
privatization of the state and also the privatization of war.
This is already underway; an important part
of this war is being carried out by private companies, mercenaries,
which are also linked to the military or industrial complex."
To be continued tomorrow.
Fidel Castro Ruz
October 7 de 2010
Las Armas Nucleares
...y
La Supervivencia del Homo Sapiens
por Fidel Castro Ruz
7 Octubre 2010
del Sitio Web
CubaDebate
Versión en
ingles
En el acto conmemorativo por el
50 aniversario de los Comités de Defensa de la Revolución expresé el
criterio de que:
La Revolución Cubana, en
nuestra pequeña e ignorada isla, estaba recién nacida, pero el hecho de
venir al mundo, a solo 90 millas del poderoso imperio, se convirtió en
algo que ponía a prueba la soberbia de la superpotencia dominante en
nuestro hemisferio y en gran parte del mundo.
Prometí hablar de las palabras
que pronuncié dos días antes ante la ONU. Advertí que nuestra lucha sería
larga y dura. Esa tarea, en lo inmediato, debo posponerla.
Otro tema, sin embargo, es en
este momento más importante.
Nuestro pueblo, que como muchos conocen en el mundo se caracteriza por los
altos niveles de conocimientos alcanzados durante cinco décadas, a partir de
un país semicolonizado y monoproductor con un considerable nivel de
analfabetos, semi-analfabetos y bajos niveles de escolaridad general y
conocimientos científicos, debía ser informado ampliamente de lo que puede
significar para el destino de la especie humana la energía nuclear.
A mí me parece - dije
textualmente el 28 de septiembre - que sería bueno, tal vez, que se
conocieran algunas de estas ideas sobre qué es el arma nuclear. Yo he
visto algunas imágenes sobre lo que es la masa crítica, lo que significa
su empleo como arma: bueno, tomar la energía que mueve al universo para
la guerra.
A partir de 3 000 grados
prácticamente todos los metales y materiales
se funden.
¿Qué será a los 10 000
grados? [...] Pues bien, a través de la explosión atómica producto de la
masa crítica se pueden alcanzar millones de grados de calor
.
Deseo añadir en esta Reflexión,
para tener una idea del poder destructivo de esa energía, lo que escribió
Harry S. Truman en su diario, el 25 de julio de 1945, sobre una prueba
realizada en el estado de Nuevo México:
Un experimento en el
desierto de Nuevo México fue sorprendente, para decirlo de forma
moderada. Trece libras del explosivo causaron la desintegración total de
una torre de acero de 60 pies de altura, abrieron un cráter de 6 pies de
profundidad y 1,200 pies de diámetro, derribaron una torre de acero a
media milla de distancia y tiraron al suelo a hombres que se encontraban
a 10,000 yardas (~10,000 metros) de distancia. La explosión se vio a más de 200 millas
(360 km. aprox.) y
se escuchó a más de 40″.
En la etapa actual del mundo,
cuando alrededor de doscientos países han sido reconocidos como Estados
independientes con derecho a participar en la
Organización de Naciones Unidas - ridícula ficción jurídica
- la única posibilidad de forjar una esperanza consiste en llevar a las
masas, de forma serena y razonada, el hecho real de que todos los habitantes
del planeta están corriendo el enorme riesgo.
Dentro del limitado espacio de nuestras relaciones, hemos tenido la
posibilidad en menos de tres semanas de recibir dos eminentes
personalidades.
El primero, Alan Robock
es investigador y profesor emérito de la Universidad de Rutgers, New Jersey.
El científico norteamericano, trabajando junto a un grupo de valerosos
colegas, demostró y llevó a su actual nivel la
teoría del Invierno Nuclear.
Bastarían 100 de las 25,000
armas nucleares estratégicas que hoy existen - nos explicó - para que se
ocasione la tragedia.
La teoría del Invierno Nuclear ha demostrado que:
Si tales armas no
existieran, no podrían ser utilizadas. Y en estos momentos no existe un
argumento racional para usarlas en lo absoluto. Si no pueden usarse, es
necesario destruirlas y así nos protegeríamos de los accidentes, los
errores de cálculo o cualquier actitud demencial.
cualquier país que en estos momentos esté considerando la vía nuclear
necesita reconocer que estaría poniendo en peligro no sólo a sus propias
poblaciones sino también al resto del mundo.
el uso de las armas nucleares en caso de un ataque total contra un
enemigo sería una acción suicida debido al frío y la oscuridad anómalos
provocados por el humo proveniente de los fuegos generados por la
bomba.
Robock citó las palabras de
Einstein:
El poder desencadenado del
átomo lo ha cambiado todo excepto nuestras formas de pensar, y es por
ello que avanzamos sin rumbo hacia una catástrofe sin precedentes.
Mi respuesta al noble científico
fue:
No hacemos nada con
conocerlo nosotros, lo que hace falta es que lo conozca el mundo.
El 2 de octubre, otra eminente
personalidad de gran autoridad y prestigio arribó a nuestro país, el
economista Michel Chossudovsky, Director del Centro de
Investigación sobre Globalización, y editor principal del conocido y
cada vez más influyente sitio Web
Global Research, profesor emérito de la
Universidad de Ottawa, y consultor de numerosas instituciones
internacionales, como,
-
el Programa de Naciones
Unidas para el Desarrollo
-
el Banco Africano de
Desarrollo
-
el Fondo de Población de
las Naciones Unidas,
...y otras relaciones y méritos
que sería extenso enumerar.
Una de las primeras actividades del economista y escritor canadiense fue su
conferencia en el Teatro Manuel Sanguily de la Universidad de la Habana a
estudiantes, profesores e investigadores de las ciencias económicas. La
dictó y respondió todas las preguntas en perfecto español.
Constituyó un meritorio esfuerzo
de cuyo contenido recogí las ideas esenciales, en especial las que se
relacionan con los riesgos de guerra con empleo de armas atómicas.
la economía neoliberal
representa en las universidades de América del Norte realidades que son
totalmente ficticias; es muy difícil para los economistas [...] analizar
la realidad económica [...] no hay la noción del actor económico.
la manipulación financiera, de las operaciones encubiertas de los
grupos de poder, del engaño que tiene ese sistema económico [...] es
algo que está fuera del control de los individuos
Hoy día quisiera enfocar mucho más la cuestión de la aventura militar
que se está llevando a cabo. Es una alianza de Estados Unidos, de la
OTAN y de Israel, es un proyecto militar; pero, a su vez, es también un
proyecto económico, porque es un proyecto de conquista económica.
estas operaciones militares corresponden [...] a objetivos de tipo
económico [...] el objetivo económico más fundamental son los recursos
de petróleo y de gas natural [...] el este del Mediterráneo hasta las
fronteras chinas, y del mar Caspio al sur de Arabia Saudita [...] Medio
Oriente-Asia Central, y esta región -según los datos- encierra, más o
menos, un 60% de las reservas mundiales de petróleo y de gas natural.
Si comparamos esto con las reservas de Estados Unidos, son más de
treinta veces. Estados Unidos tiene menos de 2% de las reservas
mundiales [...] y está llevando una guerra [...] para tener el control
de esos recursos en nombre de sus petroleras [...] la configuración de
poder económico detrás de esta guerra, son
las petroleras como la British
Petroleum, la Chevron, la Exxon [...] las grandes petroleras
angloamericanas que están ahí, y que tienen intereses en esas regiones.
La British Petroleum [...] antiguamente era la Anglo Persian Oil
Company, y la Anglo Persian Oil Company era un proyecto de conquista
tanto de Irán como de Iraq después de la Segunda Guerra Mundial
Si toman en conjunto los países musulmanes, sumando Nigeria, Libia,
Argelia, Malasia, Indonesia, Brunei, llegan casi al 70% de las reservas
globales de crudo [...]
Estados Unidos está llevando
una guerra de religión en contra de los habitantes de esos países donde
hay petróleo. [...] es una cruzada santa en contra del mundo musulmán;
pero el objetivo religioso es el pretexto, el justificativo para llevar
esa guerra. [...] los discursos
de
Obama, de Hillary Clinton [...] nos hacen creer que Estados
Unidos, con todo su poder militar y un gasto militar de casi un billón
de dólares por año está llevando la guerra a
Bin Laden y Al Qaeda.
la contradicción del discurso viene siempre de fuentes oficiales [...]
recientemente la CIA publicó un texto diciendo que no hay más de 50
miembros de Al Qaeda que están en Afganistán todavía. [...] esa guerra
no es en contra de los terroristas musulmanes; pero el pretexto de la
guerra es combatir en favor de la democracia y extirpar el mal.
Es interesante que en documentos militares se dice:
Si sabes lo que
quieres, vamos a buscarlos que son malos.
Hay toda una retórica [...]
es un discurso que nadie va a contestar, porque viene la autoridad, el
presidente Obama y dice:
Tenemos que buscar a
Bin Laden, no sabemos dónde está; si es necesario [...] lo vamos a
buscar con el arma nuclear nuestra.
Se formuló después del
11 de septiembre la doctrina de guerra preventiva y de guerra
nuclear preventiva [...] era justo, en base a los objetivos de lucha
contra el terrorismo, utilizar nuestra arma nuclear en contra de ellos,
y en las distorsiones mediáticas se presentó, incluso, a Bin Laden como
una potencia nuclear [...] son los poderes nucleares no estatales
[...]los poderes nucleares no estatales están en alianza con Irán que
-según ellos- es una potencia nuclear, aunque no hay ninguna evidencia
de que Irán tiene el arma nuclear.
Estados Unidos y sus aliados están amenazando a Irán con el arma
nuclear, y el justificativo son las armas nucleares no existentes de
Irán, y el pretexto es que Irán es una amenaza a la seguridad mundial.
Ese es el discurso y desgraciadamente ese discurso ya está apoyado por
unos cuantos gobiernos, [...] todos los gobiernos de la
OTAN
e Israel están
apoyando la opción de una
guerra nuclear preventiva en contra de Irán
[...] que Irán apoya a Bin Laden y que es necesario imponer la
democracia a Irán por la utilización del arma nuclear.
estamos realmente en una coyuntura donde el futuro de la humanidad
está afectado, porque si hay un ataque nuclear a Irán - como ya se está
anunciando, y hay preparativos de guerra desde el 2004 - eso significa
que, primero, en esa guerra del Medio Oriente, Asia Central, que ahora
está limitada a tres teatros, Afganistán, Irak y Palestina, vamos a ver
una escalada del proceso militar con la posibilidad de un escenario de
guerra, la tercera guerra mundial.
La Segunda Guerra Mundial era un conjunto de guerras regionales. [...]
guerra en Europa [...] guerra en el Pacífico [...] guerra en África
[...] varios teatros [...] hoy es la integración por sistemas de
comunicación y la centralización del mando militar en un lugar, que es
US Strategic Command, en Nebraska. [...] con la militarización del
espacio con el sistema de satélites, con los sistemas de misiles que se
llaman inteligentes, hay regionalización de operaciones militares [...]
planificación militar de Estados Unidos, pero coordinados. [...] US
Central Command [...] Asia Central y Medio Oriente. [...] SOUTHCOM
basado en Miami. [...] Africa Command [...] tiene su base en Europa, no
en África [...]
Hay una serie de comandos
regionales, pero la dinámica de la guerra global es muy distinta a la de
las guerras anteriores [...] una coordinación en tiempo real, apacible,
un mando único; el sistema de defensa aéreo de todos estos países de la
OTAN, de Estados Unidos y ahora de Israel, es integrado. [...] estamos
en un mundo tremendamente distinto, con armas tremendamente
sofisticadas, además del arma nuclear tenemos el arma electromagnética y
la coordinación de todas estas operaciones. [...]
La OTAN ahora tiene un mando
militar también integrado, de tal forma que es una alianza tremendamente
coherente, que puede lanzar operaciones en cualquier parte del mundo.
[...] sí tienen la capacidad, a nivel de armas de destrucción masiva,
que es tremendamente sofisticado.
Todo esto es un contrato para unas pocas empresas que producen las
armas - en Estados Unidos lo llaman Defense Contract - las empresas que
tienen convenios con el Departamento de Defensa. [...] el gasto militar
en Estados Unidos es el 75% de los ingresos provenientes de los
impuestos sobre los hogares, no todo el ingreso del Estado Federal, pero
los ingresos de lo que los individuos y las familias pagan cada año
[...] más o menos 1,1 billón de dólares, y los gastos militares son del
orden de 750 000 millones de dólares [...] más o menos, el 75%. [...]
son cifras oficiales, en la realidad el gasto militar es mucho mayor que
eso.
Estados Unidos ahora tiene un gasto militar que es un poco más del 50%
del gasto militar de todos los demás países. [...] su economía también
es tremendamente sesgada a favor de una economía de guerra, con todas
las consecuencias del derrumbe de servicios sociales, de atención
médica.
La situación de empobrecimiento que existe en Estados Unidos, tanto por
la crisis como por la economía militar, es tremendamente grave, y no es
producto de una escasez de recursos, es producto de una transferencia de
riquezas hacia pocas manos, del estancamiento que se está dando por la
compresión del nivel de vida y también por la asignación, por parte del
Estado, de casi todos sus ingresos a sostener la economía de guerra, por
un lado, y también el llamado rescate bancario.
en el conflicto entre la Unión Soviética y Estados Unidos había una
especie de entendimiento [...] -no sé cómo decirlo en español-
Es
decir que no se va a utilizar porque ya se reconoce que es un arma que
va a eliminar la sociedad en su conjunto.
Primero se presentó esa doctrina de guerra nuclear preventiva, que se
basó en la reclasificación del arma nuclear como un arma convencional
[...] en la Guerra Fría había el teléfono rojo, había que decir quién
estaba en Moscú
Ya había el reconocimiento de que era peligroso, ¿no?
en el año 2002 fue lo siguiente: Hubo una campaña de propaganda dentro
de las fuerzas armadas diciendo que el arma nuclear táctica era segura
para la población civil [...] safe for the surround civilian
population, sin daño a la población civil alrededor del sitio donde
hay la explosión. Eso fue para la bomba nuclear que ellos llamaron mini-nuk
- mini-nuk quiere decir pequeña bomba nuclear. [...] en la
ideología, en la falsificación científica se presentó esa nueva
generación de bombas nucleares, como siendo muy distintas de la bomba
estratégica. [...]
Yo tengo un paquete de
cigarrillos, yo no sé quién fuma aquí; Fumar puede dañar su salud.
[...] Lo que el Pentágono hizo: ha cambiado la etiqueta, con el aval de
científicos vendidos, cooptados han cambiado la etiqueta de la bomba
nuclear. [...]
Esa bomba nuclear es
segura para la población civil, es una bomba humanitaria.
No estoy exagerando, pueden
consultar los documentos al respecto. [...] es propaganda interna, es
propaganda en las mismas fuerzas armadas, son esas palabras - safe
for the surround civilian population - [...] como ustedes saben, es
como si uno estuviera utilizando una cámara de video, hay un manual para
esta bomba.
Otro elemento: Primero, no es el comandante en jefe, es decir, el
Presidente de Estados Unidos quien decide la utilización de la bomba
nuclear.
La bomba nuclear, reclasificada por el Senado en el 2002 con
esa categoría: pequeña bomba, que es hasta seis veces una bomba de
Hiroshima, ahora forma parte del conjunto de armas convencionales [...]
es también de terminología militar la caja de herramientas, the tool
box. [...] es la caja de herramientas que yo soy el comandante
general, tres estrellas [...] el tipo dice: [...]
aquí está la mini-nuk,
está leyendo el manual [...] Aquí está escrito que se puede utilizar
esa bomba nuclear.
No estoy exagerando, una
vez que la propaganda ya está en los manuales militares, viene a ser una
línea de conducta, y el problema es el siguiente: es que ese discurso
inquisitorio es tan sofisticado, avanzado, que podría llevar a
decisiones que son tremendamente contundentes para el futuro de la
humanidad, y, por lo tanto, es necesario que estemos todos juntos en
contra de ese proyecto militar, de ese proyecto de guerra.
Había mencionado 750 000 millones de dólares en gasto militar, y 1,5
billones de dólares en rescate a los bancos - esas son las operaciones
que se implementaron en el año 2008-2009 - [...] si se suma el gasto
militar a los pagos que se han hecho a los bancos, llegamos a una cifra
que es mayor que todos los ingresos del Estado.
En un año los ingresos del
Estado norteamericano son del orden de 2,3 billones de dólares, y una
gran parte de este monto está tomado en financiar la guerra y financiar
el fraude, que es producto de la crisis económica [...] si vemos el
programa que se implementó bajo [el gobierno de]
Bush [...] era de 750 000 millones
de dólares, y después se implementó otro plan parecido al comienzo del
mandato de
Obama
[...] un
millón de millones más o menos [...] el total de estas operaciones de
rescate por distintos medios está estimado entre 6 y 8 millones de
millones de dólares, que serían entre tres o cuatro veces el ingreso
anual del Estado federal de Estados Unidos.
el Estado se va a endeudar y los que están supervisando el Estado son
los bancos, lo cierto. [...] los que son receptores de la operación de
rescate son a su vez también los acreedores del Estado, y ese proceso
circular se llama financiar su endeudamiento [...] los bancos dicen:
Bueno, nos deben pagar
plata, porque tenemos que financiar la deuda que resulta del déficit
fiscal, debido tanto al gasto en la defensa como el gasto en favor
de las operaciones de rescate.
Estamos en una situación
tremendamente grave en cuanto a la estructura fiscal de Estados Unidos,
lo que lleva a una coyuntura de privatización de facto del Estado,
porque no hay dinero para financiar salud, educación, obras públicas, lo
que sea. Entonces, paulatinamente, se ve una privatización del Estado y
se ve también la privatización de la guerra.
Esto ya está encaminado, es
decir que una parte importante de esta guerra está llevada por empresas
privadas, mercenarios, también ligados al complejo militar o
industrial.
Prosigue mañana.
Fidel Castro Ruz
Octubre 7 de 2010
