# Obama's Gun-Running Operation - Weapons and Support for "Islamic 
Terrorists" in Syria and Iraq, "Create Constructive Chaos" and "Redraw the Map 
of the Middle East"

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_obama179.htm

by Julie Lévesque May 28, 2015 from GlobalResearch Website
Newly disclosed Pentagon documents prove what we've known for a while now: the Obama administration knew as early as 2012 that weapons were being sent from Benghazi, Libya, to rebels in Syria. The U.S. government also knew at the time that: "the Salafist, the Muslim Brotherhood, and [Al Qaeda in Iraq were] the major forces driving the insurgency in Syria."
Newly disclosed Pentagon documents prove what we've known for a while now: the Obama administration knew as early as 2012 that weapons were being sent from Benghazi, Libya, to rebels in Syria.
The U.S. government also knew at the time that:
"the Salafist, the Muslim Brotherhood, and [Al Qaeda in Iraq were] the major forces driving the insurgency in Syria."
But did they just "know" or was it part of the plan?
These official documents of the Obama administration add to the large amount of evidence proving that the actual chaos and havoc wreaked by extremist groups in the Middle East was deliberately created by the U.S. and its allies and is not the result of a "failed foreign policy".
Judicial Watch recently revealed:
The DoD documents also contain the first official documentation that the Obama administration knew that weapons were being shipped from the Port of Benghazi to rebel troops in Syria. An October 2012 report confirms:
The DoD documents also contain the first official documentation that the Obama administration knew that weapons were being shipped from the Port of Benghazi to rebel troops in Syria.
An October 2012 report confirms:
Weapons from the former Libya military stockpiles were shipped from the port of Benghazi, Libya to the Port of Banias and the Port of Borj Islam, Syria. The weapons shipped during late-August 2012 were Sniper rifles, RPG's, and 125 mm and 155mm howitzers missiles.
During the immediate aftermath of, and following the uncertainty caused by, the downfall of the (Qaddafi) regime in October 2011 and up until early September of 2012, weapons from the former Libya military stockpiles located in Benghazi, Libya were shipped from the port of Benghazi, Libya to the ports of Banias and the Port of Borj Islam, Syria. The Syrian ports were chosen due to the small amount of cargo traffic transiting these two ports. The ships used to transport the weapons were medium-sized and able to hold 10 or less shipping containers of cargo.
During the immediate aftermath of, and following the uncertainty caused by, the downfall of the (Qaddafi) regime in October 2011 and up until early September of 2012, weapons from the former Libya military stockpiles located in Benghazi, Libya were shipped from the port of Benghazi, Libya to the ports of Banias and the Port of Borj Islam, Syria.
The Syrian ports were chosen due to the small amount of cargo traffic transiting these two ports. The ships used to transport the weapons were medium-sized and able to hold 10 or less shipping containers of cargo.
The heavily redacted document does not disclose who was shipping the weapons. (Benghazi Scandal: Obama Administration Knew Weapons Were Being Sent to Al-Qaeda in Syria, New Documents Show, Judicial Watch 18 May 2015)
The heavily redacted document does not disclose who was shipping the weapons.
(Benghazi Scandal: Obama Administration Knew Weapons Were Being Sent to Al-Qaeda in Syria, New Documents Show, Judicial Watch 18 May 2015)
Although the documents do not reveal who was responsible for sending weapons to Syria, it is quite obvious from the language used in the documents that it was a US initiative and the CIA presence in Benghazi at the time suggests that US intelligence was behind this gun-running operation.
Libyan Terrorists in Syria
On September 11, 2012, the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked.
Four people were killed, including the U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and two CIA officers.
In August 2013, Business Insider reported :
The Agency, for its part, doesn't want anyone knowing what it was doing in the Libyan port city. On Thursday Drew Griffin and Kathleen Johnston of CNN reported that the CIA, "is going to great lengths to make sure whatever it was doing, remains a secret." Sources told CNN that 35 Americans were in Benghazi that night - 21 of whom were working out of the annex - and that several were wounded, some seriously. One source said: "You have no idea the amount of pressure being brought to bear on anyone with knowledge of this operation." Among the questions are whether CIA missteps contributed to the security failure in Benghazi and, more importantly, whether the Agency's Benghazi operation had anything to do with reported heavy weapons shipments from the local port to Syrian rebels. In short, the CIA operation is the most intriguing thing about Benghazi. (Michael B. Kelley and Geoffrey Ingersoll, Intrigue Surrounding The Secret CIA Operation In Benghazi Is Not Going Away, Business Insider, August 3, 2013) Last January, the Citizens Commission on Benghazi concluded that the, "Obama White House and the State Department under the management of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 'changed sides in the war on terror' in 2011 by implementing a policy of facilitating the delivery of weapons to the al-Qaida-dominated rebel militias in Libya attempting to oust Moammar Gadhafi from power", WND reported.
The Agency, for its part, doesn't want anyone knowing what it was doing in the Libyan port city.
On Thursday Drew Griffin and Kathleen Johnston of CNN reported that the CIA,
"is going to great lengths to make sure whatever it was doing, remains a secret."
Sources told CNN that 35 Americans were in Benghazi that night - 21 of whom were working out of the annex - and that several were wounded, some seriously.
One source said:
"You have no idea the amount of pressure being brought to bear on anyone with knowledge of this operation."
Among the questions are whether CIA missteps contributed to the security failure in Benghazi and, more importantly, whether the Agency's Benghazi operation had anything to do with reported heavy weapons shipments from the local port to Syrian rebels.
In short, the CIA operation is the most intriguing thing about Benghazi.
(Michael B. Kelley and Geoffrey Ingersoll, Intrigue Surrounding The Secret CIA Operation In Benghazi Is Not Going Away, Business Insider, August 3, 2013)
Last January, the Citizens Commission on Benghazi concluded that the,
"Obama White House and the State Department under the management of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 'changed sides in the war on terror' in 2011 by implementing a policy of facilitating the delivery of weapons to the al-Qaida-dominated rebel militias in Libya attempting to oust Moammar Gadhafi from power", WND reported.
WND added that
"several members of the commission have disclosed their finding that the mission of Christopher Stevens, prior to the fall of Gadhafi and during Stevens' time as U.S. ambassador, was the management of a secret gun-running program operated out of the Benghazi compound." (Jerome R. Corsi, Libya: U.S. Generals Conclude Obama Backed Al-Qaida and Operated a Secret Gun-Running Program in Benghazi, WND, January 20, 2015)
"several members of the commission have disclosed their finding that the mission of Christopher Stevens, prior to the fall of Gadhafi and during Stevens' time as U.S. ambassador, was the management of a secret gun-running program operated out of the Benghazi compound."
(Jerome R. Corsi, Libya: U.S. Generals Conclude Obama Backed Al-Qaida and Operated a Secret Gun-Running Program in Benghazi, WND, January 20, 2015)
We've also known for several years that Western special operations forces were on the ground training rebels to fight against Assad.
In January 2012, Michel Chossudovsky reported:
Several articles in the British media confirm that British Special Forces are training Syrian rebels. The underlying pattern is similar to that of Libya where British SAS were on the ground prior to the launching of NATO's military intervention. A Responsibility to Protect (R2P) NATO intervention modeled on Libya is contemplated The reports confirm that British military and intelligence operatives are already on the ground inside Syria. (Michel Chossudovsky, SYRIA: British Special Forces, CIA and MI6 Supporting Armed Insurgency. NATO Intervention Contemplated, Global Research, January 7, 2012)
Several articles in the British media confirm that British Special Forces are training Syrian rebels.
The underlying pattern is similar to that of Libya where British SAS were on the ground prior to the launching of NATO's military intervention. A Responsibility to Protect (R2P) NATO intervention modeled on Libya is contemplated
The reports confirm that British military and intelligence operatives are already on the ground inside Syria.
(Michel Chossudovsky, SYRIA: British Special Forces, CIA and MI6 Supporting Armed Insurgency. NATO Intervention Contemplated, Global Research, January 7, 2012)
Even CNN reported back in 2012 that rebels were being trained by defense contractors to handle chemical weapons:
The US and some of its European allies "are using defense contractors to train Syrian rebels on how to secure chemical weapons stockpiles in Syria," according to "a senior US official and several senior diplomats," CNN reports. The US-funded training is going on inside Syria, as well as in neighboring Turkey and Jordan and "involves how to monitor and secure stockpiles and handle weapons sites and materials," according to CNN. US Defense Contractors Training Syrian Rebels to Handle Chemical Weapons
The US and some of its European allies "are using defense contractors to train Syrian rebels on how to secure chemical weapons stockpiles in Syria," according to "a senior US official and several senior diplomats," CNN reports.
The US-funded training is going on inside Syria, as well as in neighboring Turkey and Jordan and "involves how to monitor and secure stockpiles and handle weapons sites and materials," according to CNN. US Defense Contractors Training Syrian Rebels to Handle Chemical Weapons
Bashar Al-Assad Is The Target
The deadly chemical weapons were later used against Syrian soldiers and civilians.
The U.S. government and the Western mainstream media tried to blame President Assad, but a UN investigation later concluded that it was the rebels who had used the chemical weapons.
Another official document from 2012 revealed by Judicial Watch indicates that the "growing sectarian direction of the war was predicted to have dire consequences for Iraq, which included the "grave danger" of the rise of ISIS:
This creates the ideal atmosphere for AQI [al Qaeda Iraq] to return to its old pockets in Mosul and Ramadi, and will provide a renewed momentum under the presumption of unifying the jihad among Sunni Iraq and Syria, and the rest of the Sunnis in the Arab world against what it considers one enemy, the dissenters. ISI could also declare an Islamic state through its union with other terrorist organizations in Iraq and Syria, which will create grave danger in regards to unifying Iraq and the protection of its territory. (Judicial Watch, op., cit.)
This creates the ideal atmosphere for AQI [al Qaeda Iraq] to return to its old pockets in Mosul and Ramadi, and will provide a renewed momentum under the presumption of unifying the jihad among Sunni Iraq and Syria, and the rest of the Sunnis in the Arab world against what it considers one enemy, the dissenters.
ISI could also declare an Islamic state through its union with other terrorist organizations in Iraq and Syria, which will create grave danger in regards to unifying Iraq and the protection of its territory. (Judicial Watch, op., cit.)
The U.S. did exactly what was needed to create "the ideal atmosphere" for Mosul and Ramadi to fall and for ISIS to declare an "Islamic state".
With the fall of Mosul last June, the recent fall of Ramadi in Iraq and numerous reports about the U.S. delivering weapons and ammunition to ISIS, the recently disclosed official documents show once more that the U.S. gun-running operation created "the ideal atmosphere" for Al Qaeda Iraq and "the rise of ISIS" in the region.
The war against the so-called Islamic State can thus only be a flatout lie.
As a solution to the problem they created, with full knowledge of the consequences, the U.S. and its allies offered a military intervention with the stated intent of fighting the enemy they had created while covertly supporting it in order to sustain the war, for the greatest benefit of defense contractors and Israel, which has the a lot to gain in the dismantlement of neighboring states.
The purpose of this "constructive chaos" is nothing less than to redraw the map of the region and create a "New Middle East."
As Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya explained back in 2006:
The term "New Middle East" was introduced to the world in June 2006 in Tel Aviv by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice (who was credited by the Western media for coining the term) in replacement of the older and more imposing term, the "Greater Middle East." This shift in foreign policy phraseology coincided with the inauguration of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Oil Terminal in the Eastern Mediterranean. The term and conceptualization of the "New Middle East," was subsequently heralded by the U.S. Secretary of State and the Israeli Prime Minister at the height of the Anglo-American sponsored Israeli siege of Lebanon. Prime Minister Olmert and Secretary Rice had informed the international media that a project for a "New Middle East" was being launched from Lebanon. This announcement was a confirmation of an Anglo-American-Israeli "military roadmap" in the Middle East. This project, which has been in the planning stages for several years, consists in creating an arc of instability, chaos, and violence extending from Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria to Iraq, the Persian Gulf, Iran, and the borders of NATO-garrisoned Afghanistan. The "New Middle East" project was introduced publicly by Washington and Tel Aviv with the expectation that Lebanon would be the pressure point for realigning the whole Middle East and thereby unleashing the forces of "constructive chaos." This "constructive chaos" - which generates conditions of violence and warfare throughout the region - would in turn be used so that the United States, Britain, and Israel could redraw the map of the Middle East in accordance with their geo-strategic needs and objectives. (Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya, Plans for Redrawing the Middle East: The Project for a "New Middle East", Global Research, November 2006)
The term "New Middle East" was introduced to the world in June 2006 in Tel Aviv by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice (who was credited by the Western media for coining the term) in replacement of the older and more imposing term, the "Greater Middle East."
This shift in foreign policy phraseology coincided with the inauguration of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Oil Terminal in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The term and conceptualization of the "New Middle East," was subsequently heralded by the U.S. Secretary of State and the Israeli Prime Minister at the height of the Anglo-American sponsored Israeli siege of Lebanon.
Prime Minister Olmert and Secretary Rice had informed the international media that a project for a "New Middle East" was being launched from Lebanon.
This announcement was a confirmation of an Anglo-American-Israeli "military roadmap" in the Middle East. This project, which has been in the planning stages for several years, consists in creating an arc of instability, chaos, and violence extending from Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria to Iraq, the Persian Gulf, Iran, and the borders of NATO-garrisoned Afghanistan.
The "New Middle East" project was introduced publicly by Washington and Tel Aviv with the expectation that Lebanon would be the pressure point for realigning the whole Middle East and thereby unleashing the forces of "constructive chaos."
This "constructive chaos" - which generates conditions of violence and warfare throughout the region - would in turn be used so that the United States, Britain, and Israel could redraw the map of the Middle East in accordance with their geo-strategic needs and objectives.
(Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya, Plans for Redrawing the Middle East: The Project for a "New Middle East", Global Research, November 2006)
NOTE: The above map was prepared by Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph Peters. It was published in the Armed Forces Journal in June 2006, Peters is a retired colonel of the U.S. National War Academy. (Map Copyright Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph Peters 2006). Although the map does not officially reflect Pentagon doctrine, it has been used in a training program at NATO's Defense College for senior military officers. This map, as well as other similar maps, has most probably been used at the National War Academy as well as in military planning circles. (Mahdi D. Nazemroaya).
NOTE: The above map was prepared by Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph Peters.
It was published in the Armed Forces Journal in June 2006, Peters is a retired colonel of the U.S. National War Academy. (Map Copyright Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph Peters 2006).
Although the map does not officially reflect Pentagon doctrine, it has been used in a training program at NATO's Defense College for senior military officers.
This map, as well as other similar maps, has most probably been used at the National War Academy as well as in military planning circles.
(Mahdi D. Nazemroaya).
All the evidence is there to prove ISIS and their ilks are instruments of U.S.-NATO-Israel foreign policy.
How long can the Western mainstream media ignore this overwhelming evidence that the U.S. and its allies are supporting the entities they claim to be be fighting in the Middle East without totally losing the very little credibility it has left?
Looking at the situation, Joachim Hagopian argues that the war on ISIS is just for show since its "enemy" is only gaining territory:
The US led coalition air strikes in Syria and Iraq have failed to stop the Islamic State's expansion. Four months ago it was noted that since the US air campaign began last August, the Islamic State has doubled its space in Syria, controlling more than one third of the country's territory. In the same way that the US predator drone warfare policy has only caused more hatred against America in the nations it's been deployed against in Pakistan, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, the same reverse effect is occurring in Syria where residents are increasingly sympathetic to Islamic State. Additionally, Syrian opposition groups bitterly complain that the US led coalition forces fail to coordinate dropping bombs with the rebels, thus not permitting them any tactical advantage in driving IS back. It's as if the air strikes are more for show than to actually neutralize the enemy. (Joachim Hagopian,The US-Islamic State Dance: One Step Forward and Two Steps Back - By Design, Global Research, May 19, 2015)
The US led coalition air strikes in Syria and Iraq have failed to stop the Islamic State's expansion.
Four months ago it was noted that since the US air campaign began last August, the Islamic State has doubled its space in Syria, controlling more than one third of the country's territory.
In the same way that the US predator drone warfare policy has only caused more hatred against America in the nations it's been deployed against in Pakistan, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia, the same reverse effect is occurring in Syria where residents are increasingly sympathetic to Islamic State.
Additionally, Syrian opposition groups bitterly complain that the US led coalition forces fail to coordinate dropping bombs with the rebels, thus not permitting them any tactical advantage in driving IS back.
It's as if the air strikes are more for show than to actually neutralize the enemy.
(Joachim Hagopian,The US-Islamic State Dance: One Step Forward and Two Steps Back - By Design, Global Research, May 19, 2015)
This war on ISIS is just another disastrous endeavor for populations in the Middle East, another military intervention under a false pretext, another lie to divide and conquer.
And once more, the Western mainstream media has failed to report the truth.
Return to Obama - A "New" Sociopolitical Era or The Greatest Deception?
Return to The Middle East Exopolitical Saga
Return to The Actual Syrian Case
