# Office of Homeland Security

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/elite/HOMELAND.htm

Office of Homeland Security
This is an attempt to try and get behind the façade that the Whitehouse presents us. The name “Tom Ridge” has been thrust down our throats for months now – but what of the others who are coming together under this new umbrella department? I’ve tracked down as many names as I can, including all of those in the “advisory council” as part of an ongoing effort to put names to organisations – and connections to those names. What follows are simple publicly available biographies of these people, put together on one page for easy access.
Two people have resigned from their posts already. Whether this is another case of John O’Neill is uncertain. Otherwise, to the best of my knowledge, as of 16th August 2002, all the below people hold the position ascribed.
John Horne
On October 8, 2001, Tom Ridge was sworn in as the first Office of Homeland Security Advisor in the history of the United States of America. In the words of President George W. Bush, he had the strength, experience, personal commitment and authority to accomplish this critical mission.
The President established the Office of Homeland Security and the Homeland Security Council, following the tragic events of September 11. His charge to the nation's new director of homeland defense was to develop and coordinate a comprehensive national strategy to strengthen protections against terrorist threats or attacks in the United States.
Ridge was twice elected Governor of Pennsylvania, serving from 1995 to 2001. He kept his promise to make Pennsylvania "a leader among states and a competitor among nations." Governor Ridge's aggressive technology strategy helped fuel the state's advances in the priority areas of economic development, education, health and the environment.
The Governor Ridge cut taxes every year he was in office. To ensure Pennsylvania was home to the jobs of the future, the Governor created industry-led Greenhouse initiatives in advanced computing technologies and the life sciences.
He signed into law the Education Empowerment Act, to help more than a quarter-million children in Pennsylvania's lowest-performing schools. His education technology initiatives brought anytime, anywhere learning to Pennsylvanians from pre-school to adult education.
During his years in the Governor's office the number of children receiving free or low-cost health care through Pennsylvania's nationally recognized Children's Health Insurance Program increased by 145 percent increase.
Governor Ridge's common sense Land Recycling Program is a national model. He won passage of "Growing Greener," to make Pennsylvania's largest environmental investment ever, nearly $650 million.
Born Aug. 26, 1945, in Pittsburgh's Steel Valley, Gov. Ridge was raised in a working class family in veterans' public housing in Erie. He earned a scholarship to Harvard, graduating with honors in 1967. After his first year at The Dickinson School of Law, he was drafted into the U.S. Army, where he served as an infantry staff sergeant in Vietnam, earning the Bronze Star for Valor. After returning to Pennsylvania, he earned his law degree and was in private practice before becoming assistant district attorney in Erie County. He was elected to Congress in 1982. He was the first enlisted Vietnam combat veteran elected to the U.S. House, and was overwhelmingly re-elected six times.
Governor Ridge and his wife, Michele, the former executive director of the Erie County Library system, have two children, Lesley and Tommy.
**
(note: exact title uncertain as position was only confirmed 15th August 2002)
John C. Gannon [was] Vice-Chairman of Intellibridge Corporation, a Washington firm that provides web-based analysis to corporate and government clients. Previously he served as Chairman of the National Intelligence Council (1997-2001) after serving for two years (1995-1997) as the Deputy Director for Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency. In June 1998, Mr. Gannon was also appointed the Assistant Director of Intelligence for Analysis and Production.
From 1992 until 1996, Mr. Gannon was the Director of the Office of European Analysis in the Directorate of Intelligence (DI). Before that, he held many assignments in the DI, including various management positions in the Office of European Analysis and tours on the staff of the President's Daily Brief, in the Office of Economic Research, and as a Latin America analyst.
Mr. Gannon served as a Naval Officer in Southeast Asia and later, while in the Naval Reserves, was an instructor of navigation at the Navy Officer Candidate School in Newport, Rhode Island. He has been active in civic affairs in Falls Church, Virginia, serving on the City Council and Planning Commission (as Vice Chairman and Chairman). Early in his career, Mr. Gannon taught social studies and science in a secondary school in Jamaica as a member of the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. He also taught high school in Saint Louis.
Mr. Gannon earned a Ph.D. and an M.A. in history from Washington University in Saint Louis and a B.A. in psychology from Holy Cross College in 1966. His graduate studies focused on Latin America, and his doctoral dissertation documented the evolution of political parties in Jamaica. He speaks Spanish.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls%2FAbout%20Institute/gannon.htm
On 9-11 attacks:
(concerning 1999 intelligence report citing “"Suicide bomber(s) belonging to al Qaeda's Martyrdom Battalion could crash- land an aircraft packed with high explosives (C-4 and semtex) into the Pentagon, the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), or the White House.")
http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2002/05/17/attack/main509471.shtml
Former CIA Deputy Director John Gannon, who was chairman of the National Intelligence Council when the report was written, said U.S. intelligence long has known a suicide hijacker was a possible threat.
"If you ask anybody could terrorists convert a plane into a missile, nobody would have ruled that out," he said. He called the 1999 report part of a broader effort by his council to identify for U.S. intelligence the full range of attack options for terrorists and U.S. enemies.
"It became such a rich threat environment that it was almost too much for Congress and the administration to absorb," he said. "They couldn't prioritize what was the most significant threat."
Gannon, who served both Democratic and Republican presidents, said Americans need to make a distinction between knowing the type of vulnerabilities terrorist could exploit and knowing the attacks were imminent.
He said criticism that President George W. Bush's August briefing should have alerted the administration to the attacks was "egregiously unfair. The president wasn't given actionable intelligence," he said.
http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2002/05/17/attack/main509471.shtml
**
The Special Assistant for Homeland Security directs the Department of Defense
Homeland Security Task Force and is responsible for conducting and managing complex studies and analyses to establish policies and procedures to focus and upgrade DoD’s preparation for, and response to, acts of terror. Preceding this,
Mr. Verga served as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Policy Integration), a principal advisor and assistant to the Under Secretary for Policy and the Secretary of Defense in the formulation of national security and defense policy with particular emphasis on the integration and oversight of DoD policy and plans to achieve national security objectives. Born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina in 1947, Mr. Verga holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Public Administration from the University of La Verne, La Verne, California, and a Master of Science degree in Public Administration from Troy State University, Troy, Alabama. He is also a graduate of the United States Army Command and General Staff College. A career member of the Senior Executive Service, he was appointed to his current position in January 2002.
Mr. Verga is a retired U. S. Army officer with over twenty-six years of service in a variety of operations and management positions, including combat service in Viet Nam from September 1969 to November 1971. He has served as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Policy Support) and as the Deputy Director for Emergency Planning in the Office of the Secretary of Defense where he was responsible for interagency matters regarding emergency preparedness and wartime continuity of government policy. Prior to that Mr. Verga served on the White House staff as Special Assistant to the Assistant to the President for Management and Administration, advising on a variety of matters including issues associated with continuity of the office of the Presidency and continuity of government. Preceding that he was Deputy Director of the Office of Emergency Operations of the White House Military Office. This office was responsible for development and implementation of classified, sensitive emergency plans and programs in direct support of the President. Mr. Verga served also in the Operations Directorate of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, where he was responsible for airborne components of the Worldwide Military Command and Control System.
Mr. Verga has been awarded the Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award and the Defense Meritorious Civilian Service Award. During his military service his awards included, among others; the Combat Infantryman’s Badge, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, four Bronze Star medals, the Purple Heart, three Defense Meritorious Service Medals, twenty-one Air Medals, and the Presidential Service Badge.
Mr. Verga is married to the former Elizabeth Anne McAneny, they currently reside in Alexandria, Virginia.
http://www.defenselink.mil/specials/homeland/Verga.html
**
Born in Pensacola, Florida, Admiral Abbot graduated from the United States Naval Academy in June 1966. Admiral Abbot's graduate studies include Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar and the Program for Senior Officials in National Security at Harvard University. Admiral Abbot also completed U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School and Naval Nuclear Power training.
After being designated a Naval Aviator in 1972, Admiral Abbot completed A-7E training and squadron assignments with VA 27 on board USS ENTERPRISE (CVN 65), VA 46 on board USS JOHN F. KENNEDY (CV 67), and VA 86 as Executive Officer and as Commanding Officer, embarked in USS NIMITZ (CVN 68). As a test pilot, Admiral Abbot was assigned to the Strike Test Directorate at Naval Air Test Center, Patuxent River, Maryland, and participated in the early flights of the T-34C, TA-7C, and F/A-18.
Shipboard assignments include USS HENRY B. WILSON (DDG 7) as a newly commissioned Ensign, Executive Officer of USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT (CVN 71), Commanding Officer of USS CALOOSAHATCHEE (AO 98), and Commanding Officer of USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT (CVN 71) from February 1990 until August 1992, a period that included Operation DESERT STORM. Admiral Abbot then served as the THEODORE ROOSEVELT Battle Group Commander while assigned as Commander, Carrier Group EIGHT, and as Commander, Joint Task Force 120.
Admiral Abbot's staff assignments include: Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations for Commander SECOND Fleet; Director, Aircraft Carrier and Air- Station Programs Division (N885) on the OPNAV Staff; Deputy Director for Operations (Current Operations) on the Joint Staff; and Director of Operations, U.S. European Command.
Admiral Abbot also served as Commander, U.S. SIXTH Fleet and Commander, Naval Striking and Support Forces, Southern Europe. During this period he was the Joint Task Force Commander of Operation SILVER WAKE, the non-combatant evacuation of Albania.
Admiral Abbot’s last assignment was Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. European Command, Stuttgart, Germany. He oversaw the daily activities of a Unified Command with an area of responsibility encompassing 89 countries and more than 13 million square miles.
Admiral Abbot is the grandson of Captain J. Lloyd Abbot, and son of Rear Admiral J. Lloyd Abbot, Jr. He is married to the former Marjorie Sellars of Cleveland, Ohio. They have three sons: Lieutenant Spencer Abbot, Sebastian Abbot, and Ensign Matthew Abbot.
http://www.ndu.edu/capstone/abbot.html
Abbot is currently serving as Executive Director of the Vice President's National Preparedness Review. Last May, the President asked the Vice President to review and make recommendations to strengthen preparedness against an act of domestic terrorism, particularly one using a weapon of mass destruction. Abbot led the staff that supported the Vice President in this effort.
The Naval Academy graduate and Rhodes Scholar served in the United States Navy from 1966 until his retirement as a four-star admiral in 2000. His final military assignment was serving as Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the US European Command during the recent conflict in Kosovo. He was a naval aviator, commanding a carrier-based squadron and serving as a test pilot for the F-18 and other aircraft. He commanded the aircraft carrier THEODORE ROOSEVELT from 1990 to 1992, a period that included the Persian Gulf War. He subsequently commanded the Roosevelt Carrier Battle Group.”
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/10/20011029-6.html
**
John Bruce Craig, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, was confirmed by the Senate on July 31, 1998, as U.S. Ambassador to the Sultanate of Oman.
Ambassador Craig, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, has been posted in Saudi Arabia, Libya, Egypt and Haiti. He was Deputy Chief of Mission in Syria and Columbia. In Washington, DC, he served in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs and was director of the Junior Officer Division in the Bureau of the Personnel. His most recent assignment was as director of the Office of Arabian Peninsula Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs.
Ambassador Craig received his bachelor's degree from American University in Washington D.C. He speaks Arabic, French, and Spanish. Ambassador Craig is married to the former Gerre Lee Johnson. They have one son Jason.
http://www.usa.gov.om/ambassdor.htm
**
Mark A. Holman serves as Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security. In addition to being one of the principal advisors to Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge, Mark oversees the Office of Homeland Security’s external affairs team, which includes intergovernmental affairs, public liaison, congressional affairs and communications.
Mark has worked with Governor Ridge in numerous capacities for nearly two decades. This includes serving as Governor Ridge’s chief of staff from 1995 to 2000, as well as chief of staff to then-Congressman Ridge from 1983 to 1991. Mark also served as campaign manager for Governor Ridge’s successful 1994 gubernatorial campaign and then directed the Ridge-Schweiker Transition Team.
In addition to his service to Governor Ridge, Mark has a wide range of political management experience. In 1988, he was Deputy Director of National Voter Coalitions for the George H. W. Bush for President campaign. He also worked on the George H. W. Bush for President campaign in 1980, and then later that year, worked on the Reagan-Bush Committee as the Western Pennsylvania Field Director. Before his presidential campaign experience, Mark worked for the late Senator John Heinz.
Prior to joining The White House, Mark worked in the government relations group at Blank Rome Comisky & McCauley LLP in Washington, D.C.
Mark graduated from the Indiana University of Pennsylvania in 1979. He has received numerous awards and honors since his graduation, including the Distinguished Alumni Award from his alma mater. Mark frequently speaks on behalf of Governor Ridge at civic and government functions, and he has guest-lectured at numerous universities, including Harvard University and Temple University.
Mark lives in Washington, D.C. with his fiancée, Sonia Hadley, and her son Michael. Mark and Sonia are members of Washington Farms United Methodist Church in Alexandria, Virginia, and Mark is the proud father of two girls, Jennifer and Sarah. Jennifer attends Pennsylvania State University, Sarah will attend Florida State University in the fall and Michael attends Western State University in Colorado.
http://www.goodpolitics.org/html/events/nss/02_bios-holman.htm
**
General John A. Gordon is the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security and Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), United States Department of Energy.
Prior to assuming his post at the Department of Energy, General Gordon served as Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency from October 1997 Until June 2000. He served as the Associate Director of Central Intelligence for Military Support at the Central Intelligence Agency from September 1996 until October 1997.
The General entered the Air Force through the Reserve Officer Training Corps program in 1968. His early assignments were in research, development and acquisition where he was involved in improving the Minuteman Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) and in developing and acquiring the Peacekeeper ICBM. He was a long-range planner at the Strategic Air Command and served with the U.S. State Department in politico-military affairs. Later, he commanded the 90th Strategic Missile Wing, the only Peacekeeper ICBM unit.
General Gordon served with the National Security Council in the areas of defense and arms control, including the oversight and completion of the START II negotiations. From May 1989 until January 1993, he served as a special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for defense policy and arms control. The General then became a senior member of the Secretary of Defense's staff and later, the director of operations, Air Force Space Command, responsible for overseeing and developing policy and guidance for the command's operational missions. He also served as a special assistant to the Air Force chief of staff for long-range planning, where he was responsible for restarting and integrating a long-range planning process into the Air Force.
General Gordon also has an extensive background in science and research. He worked as a physicist for the Air Force Weapons Laboratory at the Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico from June 1970 until June 1974. From June 1974 until April 1976, he worked as a research associate at the Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M. General Gordon earned a Bachelor of Science degree with honors in physics from the University of Missouri at Columbia and a Master of Science degree from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif.
http://www.energy.gov/aboutus/history/gordon.html
**
He will be charged with protecting the nation's telecommunications and information technology infrastructure against a terrorist attack.
Experts have warned that hackers and terrorists could try and cripple systems — computer networks that monitor a city's water supply or air traffic, for example — to create further chaos.
Should such a crisis take place in cyberspace, Clarke would coordinate efforts with the private and commercial sectors to bring the affected systems back to normal.
Similar to his previous position as National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter- terrorism, Clarke will remain on the president's National Security Council. In his new role, he report to both National Security Advisory Condoleezza Rice and newly appointed Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge.
Clarke is a career member of the federal government's Senior Executive Service, having started there in 1973 in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Since May 1998, Clarke was the first National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter-terrorism.
In that position, he led U.S. government efforts on cyber-security — and on counter- terrorism, continuity of government operations, domestic preparedness for weapons of mass destruction, and international organized crime.
In the role of counter-terrorism czar, he will be replaced by retired four-star Gen. Wayne A. Downing. Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge will serve above Clarke and Downing in the new role as the president's Homeland Security adviser.
Clarke became well-known for his use of the phrase "electronic Pearl Harbor," when predicting the implications of a cyber-terrorist attack. Critics say he overstates the threat, perhaps as a tactic to win greater attention, support and resources for government computer defense capabilities.
In the elder Bush's administration, Clarke was the Assistant Secretary of State for Politico-Military Affairs. In that capacity, he coordinated State Department support of Desert Storm and led efforts to create a post-war security architecture. Clarke was appointed to the National Security Council staff in 1992.
http://abcnews.go.com/sections/politics/DailyNews/bush_advisors_clarke.html
President Clinton appointed Richard Clarke as the first National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter-terrorism in May 1998. As National Coordinator, he reports to the President through the National Security Advisor and, when the NSC Principals Committee meets on security issues, he serves as a full member of that Cabinet-level committee.
Richard Clarke is a career member of the Senior Executive Service, having begun his federal service in 1973 in the Office of the Secretary of Defense as an analyst on nuclear weapons and European security issues.
He joined the State Department in 1979 as the senior analyst for the NATO decision to engage in theater nuclear arms control and to deploy nuclear cruise missiles in Europe.
In the Reagan Administration, Mr. Clarke was the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence.
In the Bush Administration, he was the Assistant Secretary of State for Politico-Military Affairs. In that capacity, he led State Department efforts on non- proliferation, arms control, export controls, defense trade, and regional security. He coordinated State Department support of Desert Storm and lead efforts to create a post-war security architecture.
In 1992, Mr. Clarke joined the National Security Council staff. Among the issues he has handled there, as Special Assistant to the President for Global Affairs, are the reform and reduction in the cost of UN peacekeeping, the restoration of democracy in Haiti, Persian Gulf security, and international crime control. He has served as chairman of the interagency counter-terrorism committee since 1992.
Mr. Clarke is a graduate of the Boston Latin School, the University of Pennsylvania, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
http://www.info-sec.com/ciao/bioclarke.html
**
Special Assistant to the President and Executive Secretary for the Office of Homeland Security
Mr. Buchholz was previously Special Assistant to U.S. Senator John Heinz and joins the White House from Blank, Rome, Comisky and McCauley in Philadelphia.
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/10/20011029-6.html
**
Special Assistant to the President and Public Liaison for the Office of Homeland Security
Chaffee has served Governor Ridge since 1995, most recently as the Deputy Secretary at the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development.
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/10/20011029-6.html
**
Special Assistant to the President and Director of Communications for Homeland Security
Neely has served as the Senior Vice President for Communications of the Association of American Medical Colleges since 1996. From 1982 to 1987, she served Iowa Governor Terry Branstad as Press Secretary, Communications Director and then as Manager of the Governor's successful reelection campaign.
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2001/10/20011029-6.html
**
Maj. Gen. Russel L. Honoré
**
Chairman:Joseph J. Grano, Jr.
Mr. Grano is Chairman and CEO of UBS Paine Webber Incorporated, one of the nation’s leading full-service securities firms.
Mr. Grano is a member of the Boards of Directors of PaineWebber Group and PaineWebber Incorporated, as well as a member of PaineWebber Incorporated Executive Committee. Mr. Grano was Chairman of the Board of Governors of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and a member of the NASD’s Executive Committee.
Mr. Grano, 53, was with Merrill Lynch for 16 years, having started as investment executive in their New Haven office in 1972. In 1976, at the age of 28, he became Merrill’s youngest Vice President, with responsibility for product and pricing development for the firm’s retail organization. His subsequent areas of responsibility included marketing services, recruitment and expansion, operations and branch liaison. In 1984, he became Senior Vice President and Business Unit Director for Affluent Customers. Later, he was named Director of National Sales for Merrill Lynch Consumer Markets. In this position, he was responsible for sales of all retail products, representing $3 billion in revenues from an organization that encompassed 18,000 employees.
In 1987, he was named the industry’s best retail marketing executive in a survey conducted by Investor Dealer’s Digest.
Mr. Grano joined PaineWebber in February 1988 as President of Retail Sales and Marketing with responsibility for the entire retail sales business, including product development, marketing and overall management of the branch systems. He was named to his current position in November 2000.
He served as Captain, Special Forces (Green Berets), in the U.S. Army from 1966 to 1971.
Left college in 1967 to enlist in Vietnam War at 19½, became an officer in the Special Forces (Green Berets) and at 21 was one of the Army’s youngest captains.
Served in Latin Americas with the 8th Special Forces Group (counter-insurgency against Castro, etc.) and served in Vietnam.
Was critically wounded—almost double amputee, 60% disabled.
Awarded Army commendations with V device for valor, bronze star with V device for valor, and the purple heart.
Also served as commandant of the parachute school in Ft. Gulich, Panama and his "A" Team was the Apollo recovery team for south of the Mexican Border. He is a "Jump Master". Joined the brokerage business while on convalescent leave in 1972 and became head of Individual Marketing at Merrill Lynch.
Other:
Chairman of the Board of Governors NASD 1994
Member of the Competitive Review Committee of NYSE
In 1995 Mr. Grano raised $600,000 for the U.S. Olympic Team, $350,000 for Queens College and $1,500,000 for the Inner City Schools of the Archdiocese. He also supports the Children’s Fund for Tomorrow. He has served on the Board of Directors of the YMCA of Greater New York, was Vice Chairman of the Queens College Foundation Board of Trustees. He currently serves on the council for the United States and Italy and is a member of the City University of New York's Business Leader of the Year by Georgetown University's School of Business.
http://www.neco.org/awards/recipients/jjgrano.html
**
Vice Chairman: William H. Webster
202-835-7550
William Webster is a senior partner in the Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP's Washington office, and heads the Litigation Department there. He is also involved in the Firm's international corporate, banking, trade and administrative law practices.
Prior to joining Milbank Tweed in 1991, Judge Webster was, since 1987, Director of Central Intelligence, where he headed all the foreign intelligence agencies of the United States and directed the Central Intelligence Agency. Earlier, he served as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (1978 - 1987), Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (1973 - 78), and Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri (1970 - 73). A practicing attorney with a St. Louis law firm from 1949 to 1959, Judge Webster served as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri from 1960 to 1961. He returned to private practice in 1961. From 1964 to 1969, he was a member of the Missouri Board of Law Examiners.
http://www.milbank.com/bios/webster_william.htm
William H. Webster was born on March 6, 1924, in St. Louis, Missouri, and received his early education in Webster Groves near St. Louis. He was awarded a Bachelor of Arts degree from Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts, in 1947, where, in 1975, he received an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree. Judge Webster received his Juris Doctor degree from Washington University Law School, St. Louis, Missouri, in 1949. He served as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy in World War II and again in the Korean War.
Judge Webster was a practicing attorney with a St. Louis law firm from 1949 to 1959, and served as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri from 1960 to 1961. He returned to private practice in 1961. From 1964 to 1969, he was a member of the Missouri Board of Law Examiners.
In 1970, Judge Webster was appointed a Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri and, in 1973, was elevated to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. He resigned on February 23, 1978, to become Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
During his service on the bench, Judge Webster was Chairman of the Judiciary Conference Advisory Committee on the Criminal Rules and was a member
of the Ad Hoc Committee on Habeas Corpus and the Committee of Court Administration.
Judge Webster was a member of the American Bar Association; the Council of the American Law Institute; the Order of the Coif; the Missouri Bar Integrated; and the Metropolitan St. Louis Bar Association. He also served as Chairman of the Corporation, Banking and Business Law Section of the American Bar Association; and is a fellow of the American Bar Foundation.
He has received many honors from various schools, including: Washington University Alumni Citation for contributions to the field of law; the Distinguished Alumnus Award from Washington University Law School in 1977; the William Greenleaf Elliot Award from Washington University, May 1981; the Fordham Law School Louis Stein Award, October 1982; the 1986 Thomas Jefferson Award in Law from the University of Virginia; and, honorary degrees from DePauw University; William Woods College; Drury College; Washington University; Columbia College; University of Dayton School of Law; University of Notre Dame; Centre College; Dickinson School of Law; University of Miami; DePaul University; The American University; and, the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of Washington University, the University of Colorado Law School Board of Visitors, and the National Advisory Board of the American University.
Judge Webster has received other honors and awards, including: Man of the Year, 1980, by the St. Louis Globe-Democrat; the Riot Relief Fund Award in New York City; the August 1983, International Platform Association Theodore Roosevelt Award for excellence in public service; the Jefferson Award for the Greatest Public Service by an Elected or Appointed Official, June 1984; the Freedoms Foundation National Service Medal in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, May 1985; the First Annual Patrick V. Murphy Award from the Police Foundation, Washington, D.C., for distinguished service in law enforcement; and Father of the Year for Public Service in May 1986, by the National Father's Day Committee,
Judge Webster was elected to active membership in the National Academy of Public Administration in October 1981 and, in May 1985, became President of the Institute of Judicial Administration.
http://www.fbi.gov/libref/directors/webster.htm
**
Richard A. Andrews
President and Chief Executive Officer, Nephros Therapeutics
Mr. Andrews has over twenty years of experience in the development and management of new ventures in biologicals, diagnostics, and medical devices. Prior to joining Nephros, Mr. Andrews directed the clinical program at VascA Inc., a "vascular access for dialysis" company, and established the strategic foundation for Next Stage, a VascA subsidiary focused on unique therapeutic technology for the ESRD market. Mr. Andrews has held Division President positions at BioTechnica Diagnostics and EcoScience, directing the introduction of biotechnology products into the fresh fruit, insect control, dental, and medical markets. Mr. Andrews has also held business development and strategic consulting roles at Amicon (division of W.R. Grace), where he helped to establish the Grace venture in bioartificial organ development, and at Arthur D. Little. Mr. Andrews completed a Master's degree in Technology and Policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Department of Chemical Engineering) and a Master's degree in Physical Biochemistry at Purdue University.
http://www.nephrostherapeutics.com/company/management_bios.htm
**
Kathleen M. Bader, business group president, The Dow Chemical Company, is the highest-ranking woman at Dow Chemical. She oversees approximately a $4 billion business portfolio that involves seven joint ventures, including Cargill Dow Polymers, which produces innovative new polymers made from renewable resources such as corn. Additionally, she serves as corporate vice president, Quality and Business Excellence, and she oversees the company's Six Sigma initiative. She reports to Michael D. Parker, president and CEO of The Dow Chemical Company.
Bader began her career in Dow's Chicago Sales Office and was the second woman hired when Dow began including women in its commercial ranks in 1972. She has held numerous sales, marketing, operations and business management jobs in Dow's global and North America operations. She was appointed to her current position as business group president, Styrenics and Engineered Products, in May 2000. She is based out of Zurich, Switzerland, but is responsible for four global businesses that are headed by vice presidents who report to her. This business group portfolio spans the globe, operating in more than 150 countries with 66 manufacturing plants and approximately 4,500 people around the world.
Within Dow, Bader is a member of the Corporate Operating Board, the company's executive decision-making team. As such, she is a member of the Human Resources Committee and the Capital Committee and is a key contributor to the company's strategy. She is also on Dow's New Business Growth Board and Bio Technology Board. She leads the Members Committee of Cargill Dow Polymers LLC and is responsible for two of Dow's e-enterprises: Buildscape and Omnexus.
Outside of Dow, Bader is a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, which is responsible for developing and coordinating the implementation of a comprehensive national strategy on homeland security, and providing advice and recommendations to the President on matters relating to aspects of national safety and security. Bader also sits on the Dean's Councils at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. She has been involved with Habitat for Humanity (a Dow beneficiary) for a decade and participates in annual builds throughout the U.S. and abroad. For more than 10 years, Bader worked extensively with the women's shelter in Midland, Michigan, starting as an overnight volunteer and ultimately serving on the board as a finance chair. In October 2001, Bader was named to the list of 50 Most Powerful Women in international business by Fortune magazine.
Bader is a highly sought-after speaker and has had a number of notable speaking engagements. In 2001, she was the keynote speaker at Conference Board and Financial Times conferences and at the Milan Italy 2001 W.I.N. (Women's International Network) Conference. She also spoke at the World Economic Forum in January 2002, the Linkage Women in Leadership Summit in February 2002, and the Forbes Executive Women's Summit in May 2002. She keynotes annually at major Six Sigma and Quality conferences and is consistently voted one of the top presenters.
She earned a bachelor's degree in liberal arts from Saint Mary's College/Notre Dame attending Loyola University of Rome Italy her junior year, and holds a master's degree in business administration from the University of California at Berkeley. Her hobbies include renovating her Centennial farm, breeding Samoyeds, skiing and travel.
http://www.dow.com/about/aboutdow/lead/bader.htm
**
On June 29, 1995, President Bill Clinton appointed Jared Cohon to the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board. President Clinton appointed Dr. Cohon chairman on January 17, 1997.
Dr. Cohon is president of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He has more than 25 years of teaching and research experience, has written one book, and is author, coauthor, or editor of more than 80 professional publications. Among the awards that Dr. Cohon has received is the 1996 Joan Hodges Queneau Medal for outstanding engineering achievement in environmental conservation, awarded jointly by the American Association of Engineering Societies and the National Audubon Society. He is a member of Tau Beta Pi (National Engineering Honor Society) and of Sigma Xi (Scientific Research Society). Dr. Cohon is a registered Professional Engineer.
Dr. Cohon brings to the Board special expertise as a national authority on environmental and water resource systems analysis. His research interests focus on multiobjective programming, a technique for decision-making in situations with multiple conflicting objectives. He also has focused on water resources planning and management in the United States, South America, and Asia and on energy facility siting, including nuclear waste shipping and storage. In addition to his academic experience, he served as legislative assistant for energy and the environment to the Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, United States Senator from New York, from 1977 to 1978.
Dr. Cohon is a member of the American Geophysical Union, the Institute for Operations Research and Management Science, the American Water Resources Association, and the American Society of Civil Engineers. He has served on several committees for the National Research Council, chairing the studies on the probabilities of extreme floods and on measuring and improving infrastructure.
In 1969, Dr. Cohon earned a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. He worked as a construction inspector in Philadelphia and as an engineering assistant for the Philadelphia Water Department before attending the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he earned a master's degree in civil engineering in 1972 and a Ph.D. in civil engineering in 1973. Dr. Cohon began his teaching career in 1973 at Johns Hopkins University, where he served as assistant, associate, and full professor in the Department of Geography and Environmental Engineering and as Assistant and Associate Dean of Engineering and Vice Provost for Research. In 1992, he became dean of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and professor of environmental systems analysis at Yale University. Dr. Cohon assumed his duties as president of Carnegie Mellon University in July 1997.
Dr. Cohon resides in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
http://www.nwtrb.gov/board/cohon.html
**
Michael O. Leavitt, the 14th governor of Utah, has led the state through an era of change and unparalleled prosperity. Elected in 1992, reelected in 1996 with the largest vote total in state history and the second governor in Utah history to be reelected to a third term, Leavitt has carried out a vision of improvement and innovation while positioning Utah for success in a new millennium.
Under Leavitt, Utah has been named the "best-managed state" in America, the "best place to locate a business" and host of the 2002 Winter Olympics. Sales, income and property taxes have all been reduced.
Crime is down and student achievement is up. Open spaces are being preserved. Air pollution is diminishing. Highways and public transportation are helping people to move around efficiently. Welfare reliance is shrinking.
Governor Leavitt's leadership extends beyond the state's borders as well. He is past chairman of the National Governors' Association and a leading national voice on issues such as welfare reform, federal-state relations, e-commerce and balanced environmental management.
Born on February 11, 1951, in Cedar City, Utah, Leavitt graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics and business from Southern Utah University and married Jacalyn Smith. The governor and first lady are the parents of five children.
After earning his degree, Leavitt joined the Leavitt Group, a regional insurance firm. He eventually became president and chief executive officer of the company, establishing it as one of the top insurance brokers in America. He also served as an outside director of two large public corporations and was a member of the Utah State Board of Regents, overseeing the state's nine colleges and universities.
Leavitt was successful in his first bid for public office, winning the governorship with 42% of the vote in a three-way race in 1992. He won reelection in 1996 with a record 74% of the popular vote. He is only the second governor in Utah history to be reelected to a third term.
At his first inauguration, Leavitt pledged to take the state to a "whole new level of performance." In the course of two terms, his vision of performance has become reality.
The average elementary class size in Utah is down by three students, while teacher salaries are up - all part of a 56% increase in overall spending for education in the Leavitt years.
Leavitt education initiatives include the state's first charter schools, stricter graduation requirements and measures to guarantee reading proficiency, improve the education environment and bring technology to every classroom.
One in every four jobs that now exist in Utah was created on the Leavitt watch. Utah's traditional dependence on the defense industry has given way to diversification and an influx of high-tech industries.
Household incomes are rising and unemployment is low.
Welfare reliance has fallen by more than half. More than 30,000 Utahns who previously had no health care insurance now have it as a result of Leavitt's Healthprint program launched in 1994.
Highways in Utah are being rebuilt and repaired at an unprecedented rate, including the largest design-build highway project in American history, a $1.6 billion total reconstruction of Interstate 15 through Salt Lake County.
Leavitt is a founder of Western Governor's University and creator of the Enlibra environmental management philosophy that has been adopted by the National Governors Association.
He negotiated the school trust lands swap with the federal government that secured millions of dollars for Utah school children; and he designed the "digital state" initiative that will deliver high-speed Internet access statewide and guarantee Utah's place in the global economy.
The governor has received numerous awards and honors and has been called on regularly by the president and congressional leaders to resolve federal issues that directly affect the states.
Leavitt embodies the hopes, dreams and beliefs of Utah, a youthful, energetic state. Asked once by a reporter how he would like history to remember him and the Leavitt years, he replied:
"I'd like them to say Mike Leavitt was the governor that led us through a period of unparalleled growth and managed our obligation as a generation. That he helped us transition to the Information Age, and that our schools were better as a result. I'd like them to say that he oversaw a fundamental change in our philosophy regarding how we help people - that we began once again to help them as opposed to maintain them. And, most of all, that during the time he served, there was never a question that he was looking after our best interest."
To contact Governor Leavitt, you may send an e-mail to governor@utah.gov
http://www.utah.gov/governor/biography_detail.html
**
Mr. Moore serves as the Commissioner of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. He is a native Floridian who began his career with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) in 1973, serving in a variety of technical, professional, and managerial positions which have developed his overall knowledge of the FDLE, the criminal justice profession, and the functions of state government. From January to December 1979, Mr. Moore interrupted his FDLE career to further develop his professional and academic skills be attending and successfully completing a graduate program (with a 4.0 grade point average) in Public Administration at Georgia State University. Mr. Moore also possesses a Bachelor of Science Degree in Criminology from Florida State University and is a fully certified, sworn law enforcement officer.
Commissioner Moore is a member of numerous professional Associations/Boards, Advisory Committees, and Councils both in Florida and nationally.
On May 10, 1988, Commissioner Moore was selected from over 150 applicants nationwide and the Cabinet unanimously confirmed the nomination on June 2, 1988.
As the State of Florida's top appointed law enforcement official, Commissioner Moore is tasked with overall management responsibilities for FDLE, an agency of over 1500 members and an annual budget exceeding $130 million. Commissioner Moore is a strong proponent of an innovative, participatory, value based management style while recognizing the importance of streamlining the Department's delivery of services in accordance with sound fiscal practices. This leadership style and the quality of FDLE members has made FDLE a cohesive team of widely diverse investigative, technical support, professional and managerial members whose collective productivity and impact on the State of Florida is second to none.
http://www.criminology.fsu.edu/people/moore.htm
**
James R. Schlesinger serves as senior adviser to the investment banking firm of Lehman Brothers and as chairman of the Board of Trustees of the MITRE Corporation. He also serves as counselor to the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Born in New York City on February 15, 1929, Mr. Schlesinger received an A.B. summa cum laude from Harvard University in 1950. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected for the Frederick Sheldon Prize Fellowship, 1950-1951. Subsequently he received an A.M. (1952) and Ph.D. (1956) from Harvard. From 1955 to 1963 he served as assistant and associate professor of economics at the University of Virginia. Subsequently he was associated with the RAND Corporation as a senior staff member (1963-67), and Director of Strategic Studies, (1967-1969). During this period he also served as consultant to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and to the U.S. Bureau of the Budget.
In March 1969, Mr. Schlesinger began his government service as assistant director of the Bureau of the Budget (later the Office of Management and Budget) and served for a period as acting director. He left the Bureau of the Budget in August 1971 when President Nixon selected him to become chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. He held that post until February 1973 when he was named director of the Central Intelligence Agency. He served in the latter position until July 1973 when he was appointed secretary of defense. He remained at the Defense Department until November 1975.
In 1976 President-elect Carter asked Mr. Schlesinger to become assistant to the president, charged with the responsibility of drafting a plan for the establishment of the Department of Energy and a national energy policy. On August 5, 1977, Mr. Schlesinger became the nation's first secretary of energy, taking the oath of office one day after President Carter signed the legislation creating the new department. He held that post until August 1979.
Mr. Schlesinger is a member of the Board of Directors of BNFL, Inc. He is a trustee at the Atlantic Council, Center for Global Energy Studies, and the Henry M. Jackson Foundation. He is a fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration and a member of the America s Academy of Diplomacy. He served with the President's Commission on Strategic Forces (1982-1983) and the Governor's Commission on Virginia's Future (1982-1984. He was vice chairman of the President's Blue Ribbon Task Group on Nuclear Weapons Program Management (1984-1985.
Mr. Schlesinger is the author of The Political Economy of National Security (1960), America at Century's End (Columbia University Press, 1989), and numerous articles. He has been awarded eleven honorary doctorates. Mr. Schlesinger is the recipient of the National Security Medal as well as five departmental and agency medals. He is the winner of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Distinguished Service Medal, the George Catlett Marshall Medal, the H.H. Arnold Award, the Navy League's National Meritorious Citation, the Military Order of the World Wars Distinguished Service Award, the Jimmy Doolittle Award, the William Oliver Baker Award, and the Henry M. Jackson Award for Distinguished Public Service.
He and his wife, the late Rachel Mellinger Schlesinger, have eight children. He resides in Arlington, Virginia.
http://www.csis.org/html/4schlesinger.htm
(see also: http://www.defenselink.mil/specials/secdef_histories/bios/schlesinger.htm )
**
Anthony A. Williams began serving as the fourth Mayor of the District of Columbia on January 4, 1999, 25 years after the city was granted Home Rule in 1974. Mayor Williams' commitment to the citizens of the Nation's Capital is to build a city government that works for everyone. He has a clear vision for Washington, DC: safer streets, better schools, clean and healthy neighborhoods, affordable housing, accessible and affordable health care, and a vibrant downtown. His commitment to bring prosperity to neighborhoods throughout the District has led to the infusion of more than $2.5 billion in private investments, and has attracted major businesses, including the Newseum and Freedom Forum Headquarters, Kmart, XM Satellite Radio, and Qwest Communications.
Mayor Williams set his vision in motion by establishing the Neighborhood Action program, a continuing effort that brings together residents, the faith community, the academic community, civic organizations, local businesses, and government representatives to share ideas, address challenges, and implement action plans to help rebuild the city. Through Neighborhood Action, Mayor Williams convened citizen's summits, in November 1999 and in January 2000, to create opportunities for concerned citizens across the District to express their priorities for our neighborhoods and the city.
From the summits, the Williams administration — in concert with the communities — established five priority areas for the city: strengthening children, youth, families, and individuals; building and sustaining healthy neighborhoods; promoting economic development; making government work; and enhancing unity of purpose and democracy. To set clear expectations and bring accountability to District government, Mayor Williams created a Scorecard system for himself, his deputy mayors, and agency directors. The Scorecards allow citizens to track the Administration's progress on citizen priorities and offer a window into a government that operates with greater transparency.
Anthony Williams served as the District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer (CFO) from October 1995 through June 1998. Appointed by former DC Mayor Marion Barry to lead the District to financial recovery, Williams restored fiscal accountability for District agencies and balanced the city's budget. His work put the city on track for the return to self- government — two years earlier than projected — and delivered a surplus of $185 million in fiscal year 1997. Under his leadership, the District achieved significant improvements in cash management, budget execution, and revenue collections.
Prior to joining District government, Mayor Williams was appointed by President Clinton and confirmed by the Senate to serve as the first CFO for the US Department of Agriculture. Mr. Williams served as the Deputy State Comptroller of Connecticut, where he was responsible for the management of 250 separate funds and the state's budget and accounting services. He has also served as Executive Director of the Community Development Agency in St. Louis, Missouri, Assistant Director of the Boston (MA) Redevelopment Authority, and Adjunct Professor at Columbia University (NY). He was elected to the New Haven (CT) Board of Aldermen, where he served as President Pro-Tempore.
Born on July 28, 1951, in Los Angeles, California, Williams is the adopted son of Virginia and the late Lewis Williams, and is one of eight children. He graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Yale College, earned a juris doctorate from Harvard Law and a master's degree in Public Policy from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He also served in the US Air Force.
Mayor Williams is a member of St. Augustine Catholic Church and several social service organizations, including 100 Black Men, Leadership Washington, and the Washington Urban League. He and his wife, Diane, live in the Foggy Bottom neighborhood of the District. They have one daughter, Asantewa Foster.
http://www.dc.gov/mayor/bios/williams.htm
**
President and CEO
ANSER (Analytic Services Inc.)
In October 1998, Dr. David became president and chief executive officer of ANSER, an independent, non-profit, public service research institution that provides research and analytic support on national and transnational issues. In November 1999, Dr. David initiated ANSER's Homeland Defense Strategic Thrust to address the growing national concern of multi- dimensional, asymmetric threats from rogue nations, sub-state terrorist groups, and domestic terrorists. In May 2001, the ANSER Institute of Homeland Security was established to enhance public awareness and education and contribute to the dialog on a national, state, and local level.
From September 1995 to September 1998, Dr. David was Deputy Director for Science and Technology at the Central Intelligence Agency. As Technical Advisor to the Director of Central Intelligence, she was responsible for research, development, and deployment of technologies in support of all phases of the intelligence process. She represented the CIA on numerous national committees and advisory bodies, including the National Science and Technology Council and the Committee on National Security. Upon her departure from this position, she was awarded the CIA's Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the CIA Director's Award, the Director of NSA Distinguished Service Medal, the National Reconnaissance Officer's Award for Distinguished Service, and the Defense Intelligence Director's Award.
Previously, Dr. David served in several leadership positions at the Sandia National Laboratories, where she began her professional career in 1975. Most recently, she was Director of Advanced Information Technologies. From 1991 to 1994, Dr. David was Director of the Development Testing Center that developed and operated a broad spectrum of full-scale engineering test facilities.
Dr. David is a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the Corporation for the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc. She serves on the National Security Agency Advisory Board, the National Research Council Naval Studies Board, and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Technical Advisory Group. She previously served on the Defense Science Board, Department of Energy Nonproliferation and National Security Advisory Committee, and the Securities and Exchange Commission Technical Advisory Group. She is a former adjunct professor at the University of New Mexico and has technical experience in digital and microprocessor-based system design, digital signal analysis, adaptive signal analysis, and system integration. She is an Associate Fellow of AIAA, a Principal on the Council for Excellence in Government, a Class Director for the AFCEA International Board of Directors, and a member of Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society and Eta Kappa Nu Electrical Engineering Society.
Dr. David received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Wichita State University (1975), an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1976), and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University (1981).
Dr. David frequently provides speeches, interviews, lectures, briefings, and articles on the many facets of homeland security. She is the coauthor of three books on Signal Processing Algorithms and has authored or coauthored numerous papers.
http://www.homelandsecurity.org/Hls%2FAbout%20Institute/david.htm
**
On October 11, 2001, Ambassador Bremer was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh Crisis Consulting Company, a subsidiary of the Marsh & McLennan Companies. Prior to his work there, he served as Managing Director at Kissinger Associates. Ambassador Bremer joined the Diplomatic Service in 1966. He served as the Deputy Ambassador and Chargé d'Affaires at the American Embassy at Oslo, Norway. In his Washington assignments, Ambassador Bremer served as Special Assistant or Executive Assistant to six Secretaries of State. President Reagan named Ambassador Bremer as the United States Ambassador to the Netherlands in 1983. He was subsequently appointed Ambassador-at-Large for Counterterrorism, responsible for developing and implementing America's global policies to combat terrorism. In September of 1999, Ambassador Bremer was appointed Chairman of the National Commission on Terrorism. He received his BA from Yale University, a CEP from the Institut D'Etudes Politiques at the University of Paris, and an MBA from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Ambassador Bremer received the State Department Superior Honor Award, two Presidential Meritorious Service Awards, and the Distinguished Honor Award from the Secretary of State.
http://www.ifpafletcherconference.com/2001/bios/bremmer.htm
**
Lydia W. Thomas, Ph.D.
Dr. Thomas was elected to the Board of Trustees of Mitretek Systems Inc. in May 1996 and president and chief executive officer in July 1996. She is responsible for the general management and direction of the company's overall technical, financial, and administrative activities. Previously, as a Senior Vice President and General Manager, Dr. Thomas was responsible for strategic planning and leadership of Mitretek's Center for Environment, Resources and Space.
Prior to Mitretek Systems, Dr. Thomas was with The MITRE Corporation from 1973 to 1996. At MITRE, Dr. Thomas held a series of technical and management positions, spanning the areas of energy, environment, health, and communications systems.
Dr. Thomas was recently appointed to serve as a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council. She has also become a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Dr. Thomas serves as a member of the Virginia Research and Technology Advisory Commission and the Virginia Governor's Higher Education Summit Steering Committee. Dr. Thomas serves on the Board of Directors of the Cabot Corporation and the United States Energy Association. She is a trustee of George Washington University and a Corporate Member of Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc.. Dr. Thomas is on the Advisory Board of the Research and Technology Campus of George Washington University in Virginia, and serves as a member of the Superintendent's Business/Industry Advisory Council for Fairfax County Public Schools.
Dr. Thomas co-chaired the R&D Investment Panel for a Defense Science Board Summer Study on Defense Technology, and she served a three-year term on the Scientific Advisory Board of the U.S. Defense Department's Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program. She served as a member of the International Women's Forum Washington Chapter, a Regular member of The Conference Board, and as a member of the ITProfessional magazine Editorial Advisory Board.
Dr. Thomas served two terms on the seven-member Environmental Advisory Board to the Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. She has appeared as an expert witness on behalf of the U.S. government at various public hearings and before the U.S. Congress; and has co-authored one book and written many technical reports.
Dr. Thomas received a Certificate of Recognition and Appreciation for her contributions to the technology economy in Fairfax County from the Fairfax County Commission of Women in February 1998; the 1991 Deans' Award at the 1991 Black Engineer of the Year Conference; the 1990 "Ebone" Image Award presented by The Coalition of 100 Black Women, Northern Virginia Chapter, for outstanding achievement in the public service; and was the recipient of the 1986 TWIN Award (Tribute to Women in International Industry) presented by the Young Women's Christian Association, National Board.
Dr. Thomas holds a Ph.D. in Cytology from Howard University, 1973; an MS in Microbiology from American University, 1971; and a BS in Zoology from Howard University, 1965. She is a member of the following professional organizations: American Society of Toxicology; American Defense Preparedness Association/National Defense Industrial Association; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (Associate Fellow); The Conference Board, and the Teratology Society.
http://www.mitretek.org/home.nsf/AboutUs/BioLydia
**
Steve Young became National President after running unopposed at the 2001 55th Biennial National Conference in Phoenix, Arizona.
Steve Young became National Vice President after running unopposed at the 1997 53rd Biennial National Conference in Orlando, Florida. He was reelected in Mobile, Alabama, at the 1999 54th Biennial National Conference and was again unopposed. A member of the Fraternal Order of Police since 1976, Steve served as Ohio's State President from 1988 to 1999, when he chose not to seek reelection. Prior to his service as State President, Steve served as Vice President and Third District Trustee for the Ohio State Lodge. He also served as president of his local lodge, Marion County Lodge #24, for two years. For the past 14 years he has devoted much of his time to the Ohio State Lodge's Legislative Committee.
Since its inception in 1984, Steve has been an integral part of the growth of the FOP, Ohio Labor Council, Inc. He was part of the team that committed time, energy and funding to make the Ohio Labor Council, Inc. the premier labor organization representing law enforcement and support personnel in Ohio. Through Steve's leadership, the Ohio Labor Council, Inc. has grown to over 8,000 members.
Steve is an active law enforcement officer serving as a Lieutenant in the Marion City Police Department. He is a graduate of the 185th Session of the FBI National Academy.
As President, Steve's focus is on labor issues facing law enforcement officers. He is committed to ensuring fair and equal treatment on the job, whether it is through states' collective bargaining laws or the enactment of a federal police officers' bill of rights. Steve also takes an active role in pension and retirement issues. His experience as a labor leader, legislative chairman and pension fund trustee have prepared him to serve on the Board of the Grand Lodge and he looks forward to the challenges ahead.
http://www.grandlodgefop.org/ntlofficers/eboard/young.html
**
Sidney Taurel is chairman, president and chief executive officer for Eli Lilly and Company. He became chief executive officer in July 1998 and chairman of the board of directors on January 1, 1999. Taurel had been president and chief operating officer since February 1996 and a member of the Lilly board of directors since July 1991. He is chairman of the company's policy committee and senior management forum.
Born a Spanish citizen in Casablanca, Morocco, Taurel became an American citizen in November 1995. After graduating from École des Hautes Études Commerciales, in Paris, France, in 1969, he received a master of business administration degree from Columbia University in 1971.
Taurel joined the Lilly subsidiary Eli Lilly International Corporation in 1971 as a marketing associate and was named marketing plans manager for the Brazilian affiliate the following year.
Returning to Europe in 1976, Taurel held several marketing and sales assignments in Eastern Europe and France.
He became general manager of the company's affiliate in Brazil in 1981 and was appointed to the London-based position of vice president of Lilly European operations in 1983.
Taurel has lived in Indianapolis since 1986, when he returned to the city as president of Eli Lilly International Corporation. He became executive vice president of the pharmaceutical division in 1991 and was named executive vice president of Eli Lilly and Company and president of its pharmaceutical division in 1993.
Taurel is a member of the board of directors of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and a member of the boards of IBM; McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.; and the RCA Tennis Championships. He is also a member of the board of overseers of the Columbia Business School and a trustee at the Indianapolis Museum of Art. In 2001, Taurel became a chevalier (knight) of the French Legion of Honor.
http://www.lilly.com/about/overview/exec_bios.html
**
Director, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Director, Center on Congress at Indiana University
Member, U.S. Congress, Ninth District, Indiana
January 1965 - January 1999
Chairman, Ranking Member, and Member, Committee on International Relations; Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Member, Joint Economic Committee; Chairman and Member, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Chairman, Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress; Chairman, October Surprise Task Force; Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran; Member, House Standards of Official Conduct Committee
International Relations and Congress
DePauw University, B.A., 1948 - 1952; Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany, 1952 - 1953; Indiana University School of Law, J.D., 1953 - 1956
Lee H. Hamilton became Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in January, 1999. The Woodrow Wilson Center, located in the heart of Washington D.C., is a pre-eminent intellectual haven where scholars, policymakers, and business leaders investigate and discuss, in a comprehensive and non-partisan manner, public policy issues, their deep historical backgrounds, and their effect on our world. The Center serves as the living memorial to former President Woodrow Wilson, a scholar and a professor who was committed to bringing the world of policy and the world of ideas together so that each will learn from the other.
Prior to becoming the Director of the Woodrow Wilson Center, Lee Hamilton served for thirtyBfour years as a United States Congressman from Indiana. Born in Daytona Beach, Florida, in 1931, Mr. Hamilton and his family soon relocated to Tennessee and then Indiana. After graduating from Central High School in Evansville, Indiana, he attended DePauw University where he studied history. He was involved in student government and served on the school’s Council on Religious Life and the Methodist Student Movement. He graduated with honors in 1952 and was awarded the Walker Cup, an award given to the most outstanding member of the senior class. Mr. Hamilton was the star of his basketball teams in high school and college, and his talent earned him a spot in the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame. After college, Lee Hamilton attended Goethe University in Germany for a year, followed by law school at Indiana University, graduating in 1956. He then practiced law, first in Chicago and then in Columbus, Indiana. He was first elected to Congress from Indiana’s 9th District in 1964.
During his thirty-four year tenure in Congress, Mr. Hamilton became very influential in the area of foreign affairs. He served as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, now the Committee on International Relations, for his entire time in Congress. He became a subcommittee chairman in 1971, and chaired a Subcommittee on Europe and the Middle East from the early 1970s until 1993. Lee Hamilton served for ten years as the Ranking Democrat on the Committee, and was Chairman of the Committee during the 103rd Congress. During his years in Congress, he made significant contributions to American foreign policy and took a particular interest in promoting democracy and market reform in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, as well as promoting peace and stability in the Middle East. He also encouraged the expansion of US markets overseas and the overhaul of US foreign aid and export policies. His service as a ranking member and a Chairman enabled him to become an astute observer of many significant historical events, such as the Arab/Israeli peace negotiations, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the 1991 Gulf War.
In addition to foreign affairs, Lee Hamilton made significant contributions to economic policy. As Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, he worked to create a sound and healthy economy and to promote economic development by focusing on such issues as global market competition, Federal Reserve policy, and long-term economic challenges facing the nation. Other committees Mr. Hamilton has chaired include the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress, and the Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran. He was also active in strengthening Congressional ethics standards, serving on the House Standards of Official Conduct Committee and being a primary draftsman of several House ethics reforms.
In his own state of Indiana, Lee Hamilton has worked hard to improve the education, job training, and infrastructure programs of its citizens. He is now Director of a Center on Congress project at Indiana University. The Indiana Center aims to educate citizens on the way the US Congress operates, its importance, and its role in our system of government. The Center is strictly non-partisan and includes a special outreach program to the people of Indiana.
Mr. Hamilton’s distinguished service in government has been honored through numerous awards in public service and human rights. These include the Knight Commander’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1999, the Paul H. Nitze Award for Distinguished Authority on National Security Affairs in 1999, the American Political Science Association Hubert H. Humphrey Award in 1998, the American Bar Association CEELI Award in 1998, the Center for Civic Education Civitas Award in 1998, the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service in 1998, the Center for National Policy Edmund S. Muskie Distinguished Public Service Award in 1997, the American Political Science Association Outstanding Legislator Award in 1997, the Indiana University Presidents Medal for Excellence in 1996, and the Indiana University Institute for Advanced Study Distinguished Citizen Fellow in 1994.
Some other awards of distinction include the Central Intelligence Agency Medallion in 1988, the Defense Intelligence Agency Medallion in 1987, the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1985, and the Knight of the French Legion of Honor in 1984.
Lee Hamilton has received several honorary degrees, including degrees from Bellarmine University, DePauw University, Hanover College, Detroit College of Law, Ball State University, University of Southern Indiana, Wabash College, Union College, Marian College, American University, Indiana University, Suffolk University, Indiana State University, Anderson University, Franklin College, and Shenandoah University.
Lee Hamilton and his wife, the former Nancy Ann Nelson, have three children (Tracy Lynn Souza, Deborah Hamilton Kremer, and Douglas Nelson Hamilton), and four grandchildren (Christina, Maria, McLouis, and Patricia Souza).
http://wwics.si.edu/mediaguide/hamilton.htm
**
Appointed: October 9, 2001
Resigned: Thu, June 27, 2002
“Retired Gen. Wayne Downing, the deputy White House national security adviser for combating terrorism, has resigned, the White House announced on Thursday.
Downing joined the National Security Council last October in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks to organize the NSC's office of combating terrorism as well as a similar entity in the office of homeland security.
A senior administration official, who requested anonymity, said Downing had "accomplished the initial task set out for him" and that he would remain in close contact. Downing is to return to Colorado to resume his retirement.
Downing will be replaced by Retired Air Force Gen. John Gordon. He joins the NSC staff from the Energy Department, where he served as the under secretary for nuclear security.”
http://www.bayarea.com/mld/bayarea/news/politics/3558088.htm
To help lead the White House response to the Sept. 11 attacks, President Bush has
tapped a retired Army general who has taken on Pentagon leaders in the past for falling short in the fight against terrorism.
Wayne Downing has been picked to head up the new White House Office for Combating Terrorism, a new arm of the National Security Council. He will serve under Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, who will head a newly created Cabinet-level Office of Homeland Security.
The former commander of some of the military's most elite forces will coordinate domestic anti-terror efforts with military and intelligence counterparts.
With almost 34 years of active military experience, Downing is recognized as a top authority on combating terrorism.
In 1996, Downing was tasked to lead a large civilian and military task force assessment of the Khobar Towers terrorist bombing in Saudi Arabia, which killed 19 service- people and wounded approximately 500.
The scathing report lashed military leaders for making counter-terrorism too low a priority, and criticized the intelligence community for failing to foresee the attack.
More recently, Downing served on a 10-person, high-profile commission, led by former U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Counter-Terrorism L. Paul Bremer, which last year called on the U.S. government to prepare more aggressively against a future terrorist attack that may employ biological, chemical, nuclear, or radiological materials.
Downing previously commanded the U.S. Special Operations Command and the Army 75th Ranger Regiment.
As commander of a Joint Special Operations Task Force assigned to U.S. Central Command during Desert Storm, he planned and led operations in support of the coalition war effort.
He is a highly decorated combat veteran with two combat tours in Vietnam and service in both Operation Just Cause in Panama and Operation Desert Storm.
http://abcnews.go.com/sections/politics/DailyNews/bush_advisors_downing.html
**
Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs for the Office of Homeland Security
Appointed: October 29, 2001
Resigned: April 2002
“Becky Halkias, a longtime aide to the former Pennsylvania governor, recently departed from her post as Ridge's chief legislative affairs aide.
Asked about Halkias' departure, Ridge spokesman Gordon Johndroe said, "She left to pursue other interests."
Halkias, who now works out of an office at the law firm Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, could not be reached for comment.
Johndroe said that the Homeland Security office's liaison work with Capitol Hill is now being split between two other aides - Wendy Grubbs, who handles the Senate, and Julie Nichols, who covers the House.”
http://www.rollcall.com/pages/news/00/2002/04/news0408b.html
