# One Humanity, One Planet, One World - Global Politics is Dehumanizing 
Mankind

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_americanempire150.htm

by Mahboob A. Khawaja
May 23, 2016 from GlobalResearch Website
Spanish version
Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in global security, peace and conflict resolution with keen interests in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations, and author of several publications including the latest:
Global Peace and Conflict Management: Man and Humanity in Search of New Thinking. (2012)
The Earth and Space are wired with secrecy, new and unthinkable weapons of mass destruction and global warming is a clicking time bomb for the future. The most hated and feared leaders do not have the intellectual and political capacity to solve nay problems which they have created. Humanity looks to men of intellect, scholars of integrity for solutions, certainly not to the warmongers destroying life and habitats throughout the globe. Rationality asserts that the future belongs to the global citizenry not to the few sadistic warlords, and that an informed and politically mature and active global citizenry must have the opportunity to exercise its rights, choice and freedom to develop the futuristic global institutions and governance by integrating the moral and spiritual values of man, humanity and the living Universe as the rational forces of global conscience for a sustainable future. Being one Humanity on One Planet and One World, people of the world to which the Universe belongs, have never allowed any abstract institutions or governments or egomaniac leaders to act on their behalf? The message and its spirit are clear that mankind as ONE rational force must act to safeguard the future.
The Earth and Space are wired with secrecy, new and unthinkable weapons of mass destruction and global warming is a clicking time bomb for the future. The most hated and feared leaders do not have the intellectual and political capacity to solve nay problems which they have created. Humanity looks to men of intellect, scholars of integrity for solutions, certainly not to the warmongers destroying life and habitats throughout the globe.
Rationality asserts that the future belongs to the global citizenry not to the few sadistic warlords, and that an informed and politically mature and active global citizenry must have the opportunity to exercise its rights, choice and freedom to develop the futuristic global institutions and governance by integrating the moral and spiritual values of man, humanity and the living Universe as the rational forces of global conscience for a sustainable future. Being one Humanity on One Planet and One World, people of the world to which the Universe belongs, have never allowed any abstract institutions or governments or egomaniac leaders to act on their behalf?
The message and its spirit are clear that mankind as ONE rational force must act to safeguard the future.
To Comprehend the Current Global Affairs In 2008, Presidential candidate Obama inspired hope ("yes, we can") for political change but it turned out to be a fallacy of perception and hope.
The world is more dangerous place in 2016 than when a colored President Obama making history moved into the White House. In scholarly terms, politics is a game of pretension and obsession to egomaniac ideals to enhance one's own image and interest for power.
You can't blame Obama squarely for all the wrong idealistic perceptions he generated to win the two presidential elections. Modern democracy is fast becoming a willful house of deception and exploitation for the rich and privileged ones.
Was the 2011 Protest Movement not a revulsion against the same ideals? President Obama is leaving the presidency and the political world in much worst conditions than when he assumed the office.
War is the only goal and policy aim that he pursued, not much different that of beleaguered George W. Bush did to dehumanize the American culture and victimize the humanity with new brand of terrorism.
History speaks loud and clear. History will judge leaders and nations by their actions, not by their claims. None of these characters had any vision for universal harmony and sustainable political change or to foster peace and co-existence across many divided national lines of greed and hegemonic controls.
American politicians do what political financiers and lobbyists dictate them to do - to loath the mankind with the fear of insecurity and continuous war agenda. The Arab Middle East is virtually destroyed; its masses bombed, terrorized and displaced as unwanted refugees across many European national frontiers.
The real problem of Palestine is replaced by the current wars to capsize the whole of the Arab world.
Who is responsible for all the intriguing wars and backdoor conspiracies to kill one another? Have all the Arab people lost their sense of thinking and rationality? How would the future generations view them in a critical analysis? Were they so inept and stupid not to think of their own future and sustainability?
Who is responsible for all the intriguing wars and backdoor conspiracies to kill one another?
Have all the Arab people lost their sense of thinking and rationality?
How would the future generations view them in a critical analysis?
Were they so inept and stupid not to think of their own future and sustainability?
The aggressors have carved up subjective titles and labels of sectarian killings, daily bloodbath and terrorism.
As if it was not part of their planned scheme of things to dismantle the Arab freedom and human dignity.
Was this perpetuated cruelty and darkness not the explicit outcome of the American and British war and occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan? Who will rebuild the century's old cultures, human habitats and reputable ancient values that have been systematically destroyed by the war mongers?
Was this perpetuated cruelty and darkness not the explicit outcome of the American and British war and occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan?
Who will rebuild the century's old cultures, human habitats and reputable ancient values that have been systematically destroyed by the war mongers?
In "How the United States and Britain Lost the Bogus War in Iraq and Afghanistan", this author clarified the pertinent facts of the bogus war.
Michel Meacher, British Environment Minister under PM Blair (This War on Terrorism is Bogus) - provides reliable insight into the real reasons for the 'War on Terrorism'.
He claims that the "war on terror" is flatly superficial:
"the 9/11 attacks gave the US an ideal pretext to use force to secure its global domination... the so-called 'war on terrorism' is being used largely as bogus cover for achieving wider US strategic geopolitical objectives... in fact, 9/11 offered an extremely convenient pretext to put the PNAC plan into action. The evidence again is quite clear that plans for military action against Afghanistan and Iraq were in hand well before 9/11."
"the 9/11 attacks gave the US an ideal pretext to use force to secure its global domination... the so-called 'war on terrorism' is being used largely as bogus cover for achieving wider US strategic geopolitical objectives... in fact, 9/11 offered an extremely convenient pretext to put the PNAC plan into action.
The evidence again is quite clear that plans for military action against Afghanistan and Iraq were in hand well before 9/11."
David Swanson (ISIS, Weapons Makers, Thugs Benefit from This Crime), points out how the US weapon manufacturers have increased the cost of weapon sales by 19% and are ultimately the beneficiary of the war against ISIL.
The coalition of war led by the US against ISIL is nothing but a paradox of self-contradictory coercive arrangement. The U.S. France, Germany, UK, Saudi Arabia, and Arab Gulf countries aim is to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad, which happens to be the goal of ISIL and other groups fighting in Syria.
President Putin is shielding the besieged Bashar Al-Assad from final collapse and making gains in Syria and Arabian strategic thinking.
Many Arab leaders are impressed by Putin's decisive action to protect his client state. They could open new markets for Russian weapons and influence in the Arab world. President Obama remained in-between without any prompt action to oust Bashar Al-Assad.
The current sectarian wars do not appeal to any holiest mission. The US and Russia are bombing to support their war economy and find a convenient pretext to kill the Arab people. American foreign policy aims at and acts like double-edge Razor King to install authoritarian regimes in the frontline Arab states and manipulate them for illegitimate purposes and exploitation of the natural resources.
When these former neo-colonial tribal agents turned kings and princess become a liability, the US implies Plan "B" to get them killed by their own people like Ghadafi in Libya, Abdulla Saleh ousted in Yemen and Saddam Hussein hanged in Iraq.
The Arab coalition leaders have no sense of time and history how the US will destroy the Arab culture and civilization by using false pretext of the war.
Truth is One, Not Many But Political Leaders will Deny it We are witnessing an historic event and epic of empire-building.
Leaders claiming to be democratically elected, think and behave like absolute dictators. President Obama is engaged in time-killing exercises at the end of his presidency. He was not an intellectual and proactive person leading to peaceful future-making.
Mankind needs morally and intellectually responsible leadership to pursue a sustainable future.
All absolute rulers and leaders tried to run down the mankind as if it was just a number - a digit - and conscious-less entity of technological imagination. But all of them have caused immense losses and liabilities to their own nations and empires.
American political history was enriched with intellectual foresights and democratic values to safeguard the rest of the mankind. But its contemporary leaders and major institutions seem to defy the logic of peaceful co-existing with the global community. The continuous wars have incapacitated the Arab states and rulers as some are complacent in providing logistical support to the US-British aggressions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The Western masses are against the wars but the US-Russian strategic plans increasingly pursuing more seen-unseen wars against the Arabs-Muslims, not just to occupy their natural resources but to go beyond Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria and Libya and occupy the lands and people.
This is a call for a decadent Islamic culture to be destroyed within as the political developments are shaping up beginning with Palestine, Iraq, Syria onward to other Arabian Peninsula - collapse of the Muslim people to be taken over by the 21st century Crusaders.
One wonders, if the oil enriched Arab elite occupying dusty palaces could come out to have the freedom to think on their own of a Navigational Change to avert the self-geared human catastrophes? Chris Hedges (Empire of Illusion - The End of Literacy and the Triumph of Spectacle) contributes a realist observation (The Ghoulish Face of Empire), to make the US policy makers understand the untold and challenging facts of global politics:
The black-clad fighters of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, sweeping a collapsing army and terrified Iraqis before them as they advance toward Baghdad, reflect back to us the ghoulish face of American empire. They are the specters of the hundreds of thousands of people we murdered in our deluded quest to remake the Middle East... The language of violence engenders violence. The language of hate engenders hate. "I and the public know what all schoolchildren learn," W.H. Auden wrote. "Those to whom evil is done do evil in return." It is as old as the Bible. There is no fight left in us. The war is over. We destroyed Iraq as a unified country. It will never be put back together We are not, as we thought when we entered Iraq We are something else. Fools and murderers. Blinded by hubris. Faded relics of the Cold War. And now, in the final act of the play, we are crawling away. Our empire is dying... The disintegration of Iraq is irreversible. At best, the Kurds, the Shiites and the Sunnis will carve out antagonistic enclaves. At worst, there will be a protracted civil war. This is what we have bequeathed to Iraq. The spread of our military through the region has inflamed jihadists across the Arab world. The resulting conflicts will continue until we end our occupation of the Middle East. The callous slaughter we deliver is no different from the callous slaughter we receive. Our jihadists, George W. Bush Dick Cheney Paul Wolfowitz Donald Rumsfeld Richard Perle Thomas Friedman Tommy Franks, ...who assured us that swift and overwhelming force in Iraq would transform the Middle East into an American outpost of progress, are no less demented than the jihadists approaching Baghdad. These two groups of killers mirror each other. This is what we have spawned. And this is what we deserve.
The black-clad fighters of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, sweeping a collapsing army and terrified Iraqis before them as they advance toward Baghdad, reflect back to us the ghoulish face of American empire.
They are the specters of the hundreds of thousands of people we murdered in our deluded quest to remake the Middle East...
The language of violence engenders violence. The language of hate engenders hate.
"I and the public know what all schoolchildren learn," W.H. Auden wrote. "Those to whom evil is done do evil in return."
It is as old as the Bible. There is no fight left in us. The war is over. We destroyed Iraq as a unified country. It will never be put back together We are not, as we thought when we entered Iraq We are something else. Fools and murderers. Blinded by hubris. Faded relics of the Cold War.
And now, in the final act of the play, we are crawling away.
Our empire is dying... The disintegration of Iraq is irreversible. At best, the Kurds, the Shiites and the Sunnis will carve out antagonistic enclaves. At worst, there will be a protracted civil war.
This is what we have bequeathed to Iraq. The spread of our military through the region has inflamed jihadists across the Arab world. The resulting conflicts will continue until we end our occupation of the Middle East.
The callous slaughter we deliver is no different from the callous slaughter we receive.
Our jihadists,
George W. Bush Dick Cheney Paul Wolfowitz Donald Rumsfeld Richard Perle Thomas Friedman Tommy Franks,
George W. Bush
Dick Cheney
Paul Wolfowitz
Donald Rumsfeld
Richard Perle
Thomas Friedman
Tommy Franks,
...who assured us that swift and overwhelming force in Iraq would transform the Middle East into an American outpost of progress, are no less demented than the jihadists approaching Baghdad.
These two groups of killers mirror each other. This is what we have spawned.
And this is what we deserve.
The Earth and Space are wired with secrecy, new and unthinkable weapons of mass destruction, and global warming is a clicking time bomb for the future.
The most hated and feared leaders do not have the intellectual and political capacity to solve any problems which they have engineered for their own interest and greed of power.
The humanity looks to proactive scholars, visionary and intelligent people of new ideas and leaders of change to rebuild a systematic and institutionalized sustainable future for the humanity and to articulate a culture of freedom and human dignity to co-exist without the fear of wars and in complete harmony with the Nature of things - more so, to imagine man (human being), humanity and the Universe to co-exist without animosity of the few vengeful mindsets.
Man being the most intelligent creation on planet Earth and being the nucleus of Humanity must think of his originality of Creation and coherent role-play within the Laws of God governing Man's life and the Universe. The Man, the Humanity and the Universe must be seen as interrelated to envisage global peace and harmony on One Plant.
Life, the Universe and the laws of governance of the planet are not the outcomes of politicians and staged actors. Is there a new culture of rethinking and emotions to bring the mankind back to its originality of rational unity and peaceful co-existence to save the humanity and civilizations?
Lessons of history are ignored - most feared and most hated leaders, who drove the mankind to the insanity of the Two World Wars and current war agenda in the Middle East, likewise are actively engaged to undermine the future prospects of harmony between people of diversity and varied cultures. With failed international institutions, incompetent and corrupt global leadership affiliated to the Washington-based Military-Industrial complex continues to enforce militarization of the globe - and insane perversion against the logic of peace and co-existence amongst the mankind.
The humanity looks to men of intellect, scholars of integrity for solutions, certainly not to the warmongers destroying life and habitats throughout the globe. Rationality asserts that the future belongs to the global citizenry not to the few sadistic warlords, and that an informed and politically mature and active global citizenry must have the opportunity to exercise its rights, choice and freedom to develop the futuristic global institutions and governance by integrating the moral and spiritual values of man, humanity and the living Universe as the rational forces of global conscience for a sustainable future. Being One Humanity on One Planet and One World, people of the world to which the Universe belongs, have never allowed any abstract institutions or governments or egomaniac leaders to act on their behalf?
The message and its spirit are clear that the mankind as ONE rational force must act to safeguard the future...
Return to American "Empire"
