# Order Out of Chaos - 04

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/order_chaos/order_chaos04.htm

Chapter 4 Chaos 101 - Building Your Own Enemies
Puppet On A String: Hamas Dances To Israels Tune
Many people identify Zionism and the expansion of Israel as the head of the New World Order hydra. In reality, Israel is just another tentacle of the beast. The Globalists do not owe allegiance to any particular country, they will use any nation or movement as muscle to ram through their agenda. In saying this, it is no surprise to learn that the people who control Israel use the same tactics as their peers to oppress their population beneath a choking police state.
After September 11 Israel hijacked the rhetoric of the war on terrorism and used it to stoke the fire of their own agenda, sanctioned within the wider context of the overall Globalist game plan. In a January 2003 United Press International report, it was openly stated that Israel feel completely justified in admitting that Mossad will be carrying out political assassinations on American soil, Israel is embarking upon a more aggressive approach to the war on terror that will include staging targeted killings in the United States and other friendly countries, former Israeli intelligence officials told United Press International.
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has forbidden the practice until now, these sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity.1 Of course, it has been known for decades that Mossad conduct so-called preemptive assassinations of political enemies on foreign shores. The public admission itself is what makes the story, not the details, which were already largely known. When asked about this report, White House press secretary Ari Fleischer simply dismissed the question.
1 Israel to kill on U.S., allies soil Richard Sale United Press International January 15 2003 - http://www.upi.com/view.cfm?StoryID=20030115-035849-6156r
Israels supposed arch-enemy, the terrorist group Hamas, was founded and funded by Israels dominant Likud party and continues to be bankrolled to this day by political bodies pushing a one world government system. This is not my opinion and I am not breaking an exclusive story. It is a documented fact reported on by mainstream news outlets and admitted by respected individuals within the US and Israeli governments and intelligence agencies.
The objectives of Hamas dovetail with those of the Likud, no settlement at all costs. Whenever the prospect of a workable peace settlement between the Israelis and Palestinians arises, Hamas or one of their offshoots blows a bus, restaurant or a hotel to bits. This gives Israel the justification needed to scupper any agreement and further entrench their occupation of disputed lands.
All the outsider sees is carnage, death and a mainstream media that spins the issue so that these atrocities somehow represent the wishes of the Palestinian people. The Globalists have no intention of settling the conflict and will likely use it several years down the line to initiate a near-apocalyptic third world war that will fully ensconce their wicked empire.
The final phase is a stage-managed clash of civilizations between the Arab world, possibly supported by China, and the west.
According to United Press International,
Israel and Hamas may currently be locked in deadly combat, but, according to several current and former U.S. intelligence officials, beginning in the late 1970s, Tel Aviv gave direct and indirect financial aid to Hamas over a period of years.2
2 Analysis: Hamas history tied to Israel Richard Sale United Press International June 18 2002 - http://www.upi.com/print.cfm?StoryID=18062002-051845-8272r
Israel wanted to radicalize the dispute by molding Hamas into a fundamentalist militant crusade to ape the Khomeini revolution in Iran. So much so that Israel groomed potential Hamas leaders, pressuring Israeli authorities to give them licenses to set up food kitchens, clinics, schools, and day-care centers, to create a governing structure alternative to Arafats Fatah. These were known as Village Leagues - and provided future Hamas operatives with a political and governmental foothold. This began in 1978 when Prime Minister Menachem Begin, himself a former terrorist leader, approved an application from Sheik Ahmad Yassin to license the Islamic Association, which would later produce a military wing, Hamas, in 1987. The Israeli Likud party propped up Yassin because they both had the same agenda, to destabilize Arafats Fatah.
The Village Leagues were then infiltrated by the Israeli intelligence agency Shin Bet, which provided weapons training for the Palestinians and also created a network of thousands of informers. This funding and support continued even after the signing of the 1993 Oslo accords.
The deliberate insertion of a competing faction would dilute support for the Palestinian Liberation Organization. Current Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon had a key role in the formation of this policy. After the first wave of suicide bombings began in 1994, Israel could also discredit the PLO by linking it with Hamas after every terrorist atrocity. The hard line Likud party could then increase its standing amongst the Israeli people by promising a brutal crackdown on Palestinian terrorism. Chaos and anarchy on the West Bank entails order Likuds order.
FIG 4.1
[CAPTION: Hamas the Israeli-controlled terror wind-up toy.]
Correspondingly, the US government used the tactic of radicalizing a group or a country when it shipped millions of Islamic fundamentalist schoolbooks to Afghanistan under George Bush senior.3 The books encouraged violent jihad and the overthrow of the then secular Afghan government. This conditioned a whole generation to calmly accept the subsequent fundamentalist Taliban regime, which was put into power in 1996 by the CIA.4
Of course, an even more plentiful supply of compliance from Israeli citizens is harvested from manufactured terrorist threats, a tactic used to perfection by the post-9/11 Bush and Blair governments. By managing both the Hamas leadership and perception of the groups deadly potential in the media, the Israeli elite could frighten their people into living under a police state,
Sharon is conducting a vicious psychological operation inside Israel, to secure popular support for a war by staging continuous terror scares. One Israeli businessman confirmed that almost nightly, Israeli police enter restaurants, hotels, shops, etc., ordering patrons to evacuate due to bomb threats. The businessman, a former Mossad official, was told by Israeli authorities that the scares are in almost all cases hoaxes, perpetrated to traumatize the public into accepting any anti-Arab military actions.5
Previous to Israels intervention, Hamas was a relatively dormant and sidelined minority group. According to UPIs US government source,
The thinking on the part of some of the right-wing Israeli establishment was that Hamas and the others, if they gained control, would refuse to have any part of the peace process and would torpedo any agreements put in place.6
The well-respected International Herald Tribune could only agree,
It is well-known that, in its long war against Palestinian nationalism, Israel penetrated every faction and recruited a veritable army of Palestinian informers and collaborators.7 Secretary-General of the Palestinian Authority Tayeb Raheem went into further details by stating that Hamas cells existed within the Israeli army and security services, proof of which was documentation highlighting the fact that Islamic operatives were regularly entering camps such as Dahaniya that only Israeli collaborators were permitted to access.
The closest the world came to seeing a settlement in Israel was during the term of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. Rabin had signed the Oslo agreement with Yasser Arafat, which was the framework for the establishment of a Palestinian state by 1998. Rabin was by no means a soft touch to the Palestinians during his early years in office, but by late 1995 he had reached effective accords with both the Palestinians and Jordan, and was on the verge of repeating the trick with Syria.
3 Bush and the media cover-up of the jihad schoolbook scandal Jared Israel April 9 2002 http://emperors-clothes.com/articles/jared/jihad.htm 4 CIA worked in tandem with Pakistan to create Taliban Times of India March 7 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/cia_tandem_create_taliban.html 5 Sharon War Plan Exposed: Hamas Is His Gang Tool Jeffrey Steinberg Executive Intellligence Review July 20 2001 - http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_hamas5.html 6 Analysis: Hamas history tied to Israel - Ibid 7 Who controlled Abu Nidal? Patrick Seale International Herald Tribune August 22 2002 http://www.iht.com/cgi-bin/generic.cgi?template=articleprint.tmplh&ArticleId=68357
As Arab governments support for the initiative increased, their funding and support of Hamas decreased.
It was at this point, on November 4 1995, that Rabin was gunned down by a lone nut assassin after a peace rally in Tel Aviv. His assassin, Yigal Amir was trained by Shin Bet, the Israeli domestic intelligence service. Shin Bet had received multiple warnings in the weeks preceding the event that an assassination attempt would take place. Strange therefore that Rabins security detail, who were trained to immediately fire upon any armed intruder, stood idly by and watched as Amir walked within six feet of Rabin and discharged his weapon.
According to the New York Times, Rabin was able to get up and enter his nearby limousine stating, it hurts, but its not so bad before being driven to the hospital. Upon arrival, Rabins chauffeur had to sprint through the hallways shouting in an attempt to get some attention. The notion that a hospital wouldnt have a medical team on standby for the arrival of a seriously wounded Prime Minister is inconceivable. These are just a few pieces of evidence out of hundreds to suggest that Rabin was meant to die.
Rabins wife, Leah, directly blamed the Likud party and particularly its bloodthirsty leader, Benjamin Netanyahu. The Rabin murder underlines the fact that whether Hamas dupes or their own agents are utilized, the tactics and ideology are always the same. Israels right-wing elite and their global puppet masters were anxious to crumble any hope for peace, which before Rabins assassination was a viable possibility.
Another reason for Rabins elimination was his open understanding that Hamas was a tool of the Israeli elite, according to Yasser Arafat. In an interview with the Italian daily Corriere della Sera, Arafat said,
We are doing everything to stop the violence. But Hamas is a creature of Israel which at the time of Prime Minister [Yitzhak] Shamir [the late 1980s, when Hamas arose], gave them money and more than 700 institutions, among them schools, universities and mosques. Even [former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak] Rabin ended up admitting it, when I charged him with it, in the presence of [Egpytian President Hosni] Mubarak.8
Rabin defined Israels covert support of Hamas as a fatal error and was in the process of putting an end to it before his assassination. He expelled 400 of its operatives in 1992 and arrested 4,000 of them in the months before his death.
Hamas responded by taking a the enemy of my enemy is my friend stance and pledged allegiance to the Israeli opposition party, the Likud. Taking into consideration the fact that such information could have been propaganda emanating from either Arafat or Rabin, a Jerusalem Post editorial still concluded that the Hamas-Likud partnership wasnt bellicose propaganda they defined it as conventional wisdom.9
8 Israeli Roots of Hamas are Being Exposed - Dean Andromidas Executive Intelligence Review January 18 2002 -http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2002/2902isr_hamas.html 9 The Hamas-Likud Pairing Jerusalem Post August 25 1995 http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_hamas4.html
Israeli, American and British control of Palestinian terrorists can be put in the context of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Abu Nidal was accused of nearly 900 political assassinations spanning the entire globe, as member of the Palestinian terror group Fateh Revolutionary Council. This group mysteriously escaped any Israeli reprisal, leading many analysts to conclude that it was firmly under Mossad control and used to discredit the PLO. In August of 2002 Nidal was found dead in a Baghdad hotel.
Experts were certain that he had committed suicide to escape capture but the fact that he had sustained multiple gunshot wounds heavily suggests he was killed by Iraqi operatives. According to The Intelligence Network, Abu Nidal was working for the Israeli intelligence agency, Mossad, for the last four years and was plotting a coup against Iraqi president Saddam Hussain at the behest of Western powers, top diplomats said.10 Many experts contend that Israel was pulling Nidals strings as far back as the 1960s.
Nidal was somehow able to obtain multi-entry visas and passports for numerous countries. Mossad had to shift him around the globe on several occasions to avoid his arrest. As the anti-war chorus grew to a crescendo in late 2002, the Americans began to formulate contingency plans that would enable them to overthrow Hussein without the need for a full-scale invasion of Iraq. The Iraqis, who themselves utilized Nidal in the 70s, learned of the Israeli/American plot to use the asset Nidal and consequently had him neutralized.
After the mid-seventies, Nidals renegade attacks on Palestinian Fatah leaders far outweighed those against Israelis and Jews. Arafats most trusted lieutenants were Nidals favorite targets, most notably PLOs former intelligence chief Abu Iyad. Apart from Arafat, all the other founding members of Fatah were killed by Nidal in concert with Israel. Israel exploited their control of Nidal to the greatest effect in June 1982. Three gunmen seriously wounded then-ambassador Shlomo Argov in London, giving Menachem Begins government the excuse it needed to implement then-defense minister Ariel Sharons plan to invade Lebanon and push the PLO out of Beirut.
Told it was Abu Nidals men, not Arafats, who shot Argov, then-chief of staff Rafael Eitan was reported to have said, Nidal, Shmidal, theyre all the same.11 Nidal always acted in the countries where Palestinian support was the strongest such as Greece, Cyprus and Sudan, and never in the occupied areas. He was in essence a gun for hire, carrying out assassinations on behalf of Syria and Iraq during the eighties. Israel took full advantage in that they could use Nidal to both attack the PLO directly and commit terrorism, which Israel would then falsely link to the PLO.
10 Nidal planned to oust Saddam The Intelligence Network August 28 2002 -http://www.intellnet.org/news/2002/08/29/11285-1.html 11 Abu Nidal reported dead in Baghdad - Danny Rubinstein and Yossi Melman - Haaretz August 20 2002 - http://www.haaretzdaily.com/hasen/pages/ShArt.jhtml?itemNo=199312
The European Union began as a free trade agreement but is now a centralized, un-elected, unaccountable federal power block that has subjugated the sovereignty of its member states. The parallels between Hitlers plan for Europe and the developments that actually transpired under the EU are frightening. As with all attack arms of global government, the EUs success is dependent on creating problems that it then solves by increasing its own authority. The militarization of the EU as a standing army (and one not restricted to Europe) would be worthless and unprofitable unless there was a healthy supply of global chaos to counteract.
Therefore we should not be surprised that EU money is being laundered to Hamas. According to the EU Observer,
The allegations have been in the air for over two years: EU money is being used by Yassir Arafats Palestinian Authority to fund terrorist activities. The claim by Ariel Sharons government at the beginning of May that it had found damning evidence to support this allegation brought the polemic into the open. Concerned at the accusations, the Parliament suspended payment of some 18.5 million euro due to the Palestinians until May 19.12
Why Arafat would want to channel money into those groups that actually weaken his authority is unclear. It seems more likely that Sharon is trying to distract from his own administrations funding of Hamas. As for the EU, this issue is very unpopular in the European parliament. At the time of writing, a bill proposed to investigate the matter looks set to be abandoned because the petition is 17 names short of its required total.
Despite the EUs claim that its hands are clean and that any money that reaches the hands of terrorist groups is the responsibility of the Palestinian Authority, they have been nothing short of desperate to prevent a simple probe, EU Commissioner for External Affairs Chris Patten has successfully persuaded 12 of the MEPs that wanted to sign on to the petition to withdraw their support on the basis that he has seen no evidence of misuse of EU money, and has accused the MEPs supporting the investigation of flogging a dead horse.
MEP Charles Tannock says he is astonished by his fellow Conservative Party colleagues attitude:
My campaign has incurred the wrath of Commissioner Patten, who regards this initiative as a direct challenge to his authority and credibility. The sole purpose of this investigation is to clear the air, and I have always maintained a balanced approach to the Israel/Palestine question, favoring a peaceful settlement based on a two-state solution.
Commissioner Pattens response is that he needs an investigation of PA abuse of his funds like I need a hole in the head. Pattens unwillingness to investigate how the PA used the money it was given by the EU seems remarkably peculiar considering that the EU Court of Auditors declined last November to approve the EUs budget for the eighth year running, admitting it can only guarantee that 5 percent of taxpayers money is being spent properly.13
The question has been raised as to, if Yasser Arafat is such a loose cannon and a danger to the Israeli/Globalist agenda, why hasnt he been assassinated? It seems Arafat is merely the other side of the coin. Hes a Bilderberger.
12 Patten to face tough questions on EU money for Palestinian terrorists issue - Honor Mahony EU Observer June 18 2002 - http://www.euobserver.com/index.phtml?sid=9&aid=6677 13 EU funds for PA terror - Rachel Ehrenfeld and Sarah Zebaida World Net Daily January 24 2003 - http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=30653
Every year since 1954, the secretive Bilderberg Group (named after the hotel where they first met in the Netherlands), comprising elite powerbrokers from Europe and North America, has convened to discuss, and influence, the changing global, political, economic and social landscape. The meeting is a coming together of the worlds most powerful individuals and yet yearly media coverage is non-existent.
Bilderberg is arguably the highest-level known semisecret organization pushing a one-world order. Bilderberg has used its considerable influence to oust political figures that cease to cooperate with the global agenda, most notably Margaret Thatcher who was proving a thorn in the side of European federalism until she was replaced by the Carlyle Groups John Major.
The Bilderberg Group also counts amongst its members one Yasser Arafat.
Arafat attended the groups June 1999 meeting in Sintra, Portugal.
I suspect Arafat is an unwitting accomplice to the Globalists and is being manipulated to react in ways that are harmful to his own cause, and of course beneficial to those who seek to indefinitely enflame the Middle East.
The solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is of the same brand as the solution to all other devastating conflicts around the world. Expose the chaos mongers, expose the global elite who manage and inflict total bedlam to further their own agenda. They are the source of all our ills and yet a vast majority of the world dont even know who they are or what their agenda is.
If we are to ensure that future generations of Israelis and Palestinians are not to live in abject day-to-day terror, we must point out who benefits from keeping Israel in permanent turmoil.
Middle Eastern Chessboard: Arming Iraq
Iraq is now an occupied country and the significance of the war will be discussed in a later chapter. The purpose of this segment is to ascertain how Iraq acquired its arsenal of weapons that eventually led to it being declared as a rogue state. Again, I stress that some of these subjects have been exhaustively documented elsewhere numerous times. The scope here is to provide a thumbnail sketch that includes the latest up to date information.
It is necessary to understand why the Globalists arm rogue nations only to overthrow them ten or fifteen years later. Obviously it makes significant amounts of money for giant defense contractors, which often have tentacles into government itself, like the Carlyle Group. Any such rogue state will not be provided with the latest advanced weaponry but will receive enough arms to make it a threat to its neighbors, thus destabilizing its geographic region. This then provides the pretext for the Globalists to later invade the country in the name of saving the region from collapse, citing dangerous weapons of mass destruction that the Globalists had provided the rogue state with in the first place.
We are in the arena of geopolitical chess. A move is only made after the subsequent twenty moves have already been mapped out.
In December of 2002, Iraq compiled a dossier to be sent to the United Nations detailing records of how their weapons program had developed and what steps they had taken to abandon it. Iraq merely listed the source of their weapons from which companies they had acquired the weapons that now made them the target of an imminent U.S. invasion.
The companies listed were largely either American or British, namely,
Honeywell Spectra Physics Semetex TI Coating Unisys Sperry Corp. Tektronix Rockwell Leybold Vacuum Systems Finnigan-MAT-US Hewlett-Packard Dupont Eastman Kodak American Type Culture Collection Alcolac International Consarc Carl Zeiss Cerberus Electronic Associates International Computer Systems Bechtel EZ Logic Data Systems, Inc. Canberra Industries Inc. Axel Electronics Inc. Euromac Ltd-Uk C. Plath-Nuclear Endshire Export Marketing International Computer Systems MEED International Walter Somers Ltd. International Computer Limited Matrix Churchill Corp. Ali Ashour Daghir International Military Services Sheffield Forgemasters Technology Development Group International Signal and Control Terex Corporation Inwako TMG Engineering XYY Options, Inc14
Honeywell
Spectra Physics
Semetex
TI Coating
Unisys
Sperry Corp.
Tektronix
Rockwell
Leybold Vacuum Systems
Finnigan-MAT-US
Hewlett-Packard
Dupont
Eastman Kodak
American Type Culture Collection
Alcolac International
Consarc
Carl Zeiss
Cerberus
Electronic Associates
International Computer Systems
Bechtel
EZ Logic Data Systems, Inc.
Canberra Industries Inc.
Axel Electronics Inc.
Euromac Ltd-Uk
C. Plath-Nuclear
Endshire Export Marketing
MEED International
Walter Somers Ltd.
International Computer Limited
Matrix Churchill Corp.
Ali Ashour Daghir
International Military Services
Sheffield Forgemasters
Technology Development Group
International Signal and Control
Terex Corporation
Inwako
TMG Engineering
XYY Options, Inc14
By pure coincidence, the Americans seized the document before it could be passed on to the U.N. Security Council. They edited out 8,000 pages, more than two-thirds of the entire dossier, citing its contents as risky. CFR henchman Kofi Annan made noticeably little fuss, describing the theft as unfortunate, but angry U.N. diplomats did see that the original contents were leaked to a German media source.
U.S. war hawks pounced on the gaps that they had personally created, citing them as a material breach of U.N. resolutions, A UN source in New York said:
The questions being asked are valid. What did the US take out? And if weapons inspectors are supposed to be checking against the dossiers content, how can any future claim be verified. In effect the US is saying trust us, and there are many who just will not.15
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw bemoaned big gaps in the Iraqi declaration. U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell called the omissions troublesome. The Americans seized and edited the document because it was proof that the so-called Iraq threat was a result of U.S. and British government approved companies illegally arming Iraq throughout the 1980s and even into the 1990s.
The Associated Press reported,
Iraqs bioweapons program, which U.S. President George W. Bush wants to eradicate, got its start with help from Uncle Sam two decades ago, according to government records getting new scrutiny in light of the discussion of war against Iraq.16
These records were a 1994 Senate Banking Committee report and a 1995 follow-up letter from The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to the Senate.
14 Die Tageszeitung December 19 2002 - http://www.taz.de/pt/2002/12/19/a0080.nf/text
15 America tore out 8,000 pages of Iraq dossier James Cusick Sunday Herald December 22 2002 - http://www.sundayherald.com/30195
16 U.S. helped launch Iraqs bioweapons program Associated Press September 30 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_093002_enemies.html
The CDC is a deeply corrupt New World Order attack arm and exists to proliferate disease rather than prevent it. The full checklist of horrors that the U.S. government graciously handed over to Iraq included the following,
Anthrax: The American Type Culture Collection, a biological samples repository in Manassas, Va., sent two shipments of anthrax to Iraq in the 1980s. Three anthrax strains were in a May 1986 shipment sent to the University of Baghdad, which UN inspectors later linked to Iraqs biological weapons program. A 1988 shipment from ATCC to Iraq also included four anthrax strains.
VX Nerve Gas: The Iraqi Air Force began using chemical agents against Kurdish resistance forces in northern Iraq in late 1987, provoking outrage on Capitol Hill, particularly after the now infamous March 1988 attack on the Kurdish village of Halabja. This was cited as a fundamental reason justifying the invasion of Iraq.
Pralidoxine: An antidote to nerve gas which can be easily back-engineered to create nerve gas. U.S. Defense Department Documents detail that Britain sold the drug to Iraq in March 1992, AFTER the Iraqis had gassed the Kurds and AFTER the end of the Gulf War. The Sunday Herald reported,The shipments to Iraq went on even after Saddam Hussein ordered the gassing of the Kurdish town of Halabja, in which at least 5000 men, women and children died. The atrocity, which shocked the world, took place in March 1988, but a month later the components and materials of weapons of mass destruction were continuing to arrive in Baghdad.17
West Nile Virus: West Nile virus was actually used as a bio-weapon to attack America, Israel and Saudi Arabia from the late 1990s onwards. You didnt hear about it because the mosquito-borne agent was also given to Hussein by the U.S., as outlined in the CDC letter. An Iraqi defector reported in 1997 that Saddam had bragged he would use West Nile toattack the U.S. and that his scientists had developed an unusual strain of the virus. The first outbreak in New York City was by way of an unusual strain of the virus.18
Botulinum: Iraq admitted making 20,000 liters of botulinum toxin, a deadly poison produced by the Clostridium botulinum bacteria, and putting some of it into weapons. The American Type Culture Collection sent six strains of Clostridium botulinum to the University of Baghdad in the May 1986 shipment. The September 1988 ATCC shipment to Iraq also contained one strain of Clostridium botulinum. In March 1986, the CDC sent samples of botulinum toxin and botulinum toxoid (used to make a vaccine against botulinum poisoning) directly to Iraqs al-Muthanna complex, a center for Iraqs chemical weapons program and the site where Iraq restarted its dormant biological weapons program in 1985.
Gas Gangrene: Gas gangrene, caused by the Clostridium Perfringens bacteria, causes toxic gases to form inside the body, killing tissues and causing internal bleeding, lung and liver damage. ATCC sent three strains of Clostridium Perfringens to the University of Baghdad in the May 1986 shipment and another three strains in the 1988 shipment.
17 How did Iraq get its weapons? We sold them Neil Mackay Sunday Herald September 8 2002 - http://www.sundayherald.com/27572
18 U.S. Gave West Nile, Other Viruses, to Iraq John O. Edwards - Newsmax September 24 2002 - http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/9/23/213349.shtml
These examples are just a handful of the almost two dozen forms of viruses, retroviruses, bacteria and fungi provided by the U.S. to Iraqi labs during the 80s and 90s.
The usual retort to the fact that the U.S. armed Iraq is, oh but they were our allies against the Iranians just like Osama bin Laden was our ally against the Soviets. Firstly there is no us or we a government that knowingly sends a country nerve gas to kill its own citizens as with the Kurds cannot be said to be acting in our best wishes. Just think how many times the line but they killed their own people has been used to justify Gulf War II. Thats not what these same war hawks said about it at the time.
Another veteran of the programme said the Pentagon,
wasnt so horrified by Iraqs use of gas. It was just another way of killing people - whether by bullet or phosgene, it didnt make any difference.19
Secondly, if it was all one big accident and just a quirk of geopolitics at the time, then why dont they admit it? Why do the column inches never mention the fact that the latest bogeyman is always a creation of those who want to protect us from him. Donald Rumsfeld and Colin Powell were eager to tell us how much of a threat Saddam is but when questioned about who set up his weapons program they seemed to have an uncanny knack of sudden amnesia.
Powell dismissed the proven documentation as dead wrong and Mr. Aspartame Rumsfeld goes all foggy whenever the subject is raised. Powell went before the U.N. Security Council on February 5th 2003 to present evidence of the Iraqi weapons program and their links with Al-Qaeda. This is a sick joke because Powell and the criminal administrations he has worked for have direct links to arming and empowering both Al-Qaeda and Iraq, while its common knowledge for anyone that can read that Iraq and Al-Qaeda are and always have been sworn enemies.
19 US helped as Saddam plotted chemical attacks, report says David Teather London Guardian August 19 2002 -http://www.guardian.co.uk/Iraq/Story/0,2763,776844,00.html
Both Rumsfeld and Powell were pivotal players in beefing up Iraqs military prowess,
Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defense Secretary and one of the most strident critics of Saddam Hussein, met the Iraqi President in 1983 to ease the way for US companies to sell Baghdad biological and chemical weapons components, including anthrax and bubonic plague cultures, according to newly declassified US Government documents.20
The warm handshake between then Middle East envoy Rumsfeld and Hussein was captured on film and is a perfect example of how a picture can destroy a thousand hypocritical words. After U.S. intelligence confirmed that Iraq was using chemical weapons on an almost daily basis against both in the war against Iran and domestically, Ronald Reagan signed secret National Security Decision Directive 114, one of few Reagan era foreign policy documents that remains classified. The directive stated that the United States would do whatever was necessary and legal to prevent Iraq from losing the war with Iran.
Selling biological weapons to Hussein was only deemed legal because the State Department had lovingly removed Iraq from the list of terrorist sponsors the previous year.
FIG 4.2
[CAPTION: Donald Rumsfeld, shown in December 1983 shaking hands with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein in Baghdad,
before agreeing to sell him the chemical and biological weapons which Rumsfelds own administration would use to justify attacking Iraq in 2003.]
In recent interviews Rumsfeld lied by saying he cautioned Saddam Hussein about the use of chemical weapons when the declassified State Department minutes of the meeting state no such thing. The mishap was covered up by Pentagon spokesman Brian Whitman, who changed the story by saying that the comments were made to Iraqi foreign minister Tariq Aziz.
The Washington Post reported,
According to a sworn court affidavit prepared by Teicher (NSC official under Reagan) in 1995, the United States actively supported the Iraqi war effort by supplying the Iraqis with billions of dollars of credits, by providing military intelligence and advice to the Iraqis, and by closely monitoring third country arms sales to Iraq to make sure Iraq had the military weaponry required. Teicher said in the affidavit that former CIA director William Casey used a Chilean company, Cardoen, to supply Iraq with cluster bombs that could be used to disrupt the Iranian human wave attacks. Teicher refuses to discuss the affidavit.21
This military support included more than 60 defense intelligence agency officers who secretly provided information on Iranian deployments, tactical planning for battles, plans for air strikes and bomb-damage assessments. As Reagans national security advisor, Colin Powell had intimate knowledge and influence over this operation.
20 How US helped Iraq build deadly arsenal Tim Reid London Times December 31 2002 - http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,3-528574,00.html
21 U.S. Had Key Role in Iraq Buildup Michael Dobbs Washington Post December 30 2002 - http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A52241-2002Dec29.html
Powell played the role of being cautious against a second war on Iraq all along until his Adlai Stevenson moment U.N. presentation. This was subtle manipulation to make people think, oh even the dove now wants war, perhaps the war is just. From Grenada to Panama, whenever theres a blatantly unjust war to be waged, Powells always there to put a respectable sheen on it.
In July of 1990, after years of building the Iraqi war machine, Secretary of State James Baker (business partner of both the Bushs and bin Ladens) dispatched American ambassador April Glaspie to Iraq where she told Saddam Hussein,
We have no opinion on your Arab-Arab conflicts, such as your dispute with Kuwait. Secretary [of State James] Baker has directed me to emphasize the instruction ... that Kuwait is not associated with America.22
This gave Hussein the green light to invade and after a few invented stories about Iraqi soldiers throwing Kuwaiti babies out of incubators, the West feverishly allied and war was declared. 500,000 dead Iraqi civilians later and we enter the second and final phase of what is, in President Herbert Walker Bushs own words,
The opportunity to fulfill the long-held promise of a New World Order.23
In 2003, the Bush administration was still arming Saddam Hussein while it prepared to go to war with Iraq. The Export Administration Act, which passed the Senate and looks set to pass the House, would weaken already casual controls over the export of sophisticated computer technology. Both Clinton and George W. Bush sold the technology to China, which is a key component in the design of nuclear bombs.
Insight Magazine reported,
The Bush administration has been as bad, if not worse than the Clinton administration when it comes to the transfer of sensitive technologies to the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), claims Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, a nonpartisan public-interest law firm. Fitton says the Bush administration even has relaxed the rules put in place during the Clinton years. Specifically, he tells Insight, the administration has allowed the transfer of computer technology [whose] only practical purpose is for nuclear-weapon design.24
The Bush administration has been as bad, if not worse than the Clinton administration when it comes to the transfer of sensitive technologies to the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), claims Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, a nonpartisan public-interest law firm. Fitton says the Bush administration even has relaxed the rules put in place during the Clinton years.
Specifically, he tells Insight, the administration has allowed the transfer of computer technology [whose] only practical purpose is for nuclear-weapon design.24
China has had no qualms in the past about reselling such technology to Iraq and yet a bill that the Center for Security Policy refers to as the Arm Saddam Act has the unbridled support of the Bush administration.
22 US Ambassador to Iraq April Glaspie Carleton Cole Christian Science Monitor May 27 1999 -http://csmweb2.emcweb.com/durable/1999/05/27/p23s3.htm 23 George Herbert Walker Bush - 1991 24 High-Tech Transfers To China Continue Zoli Simon Insight Magazine July 8 2002 -http://www.insightmag.com/main.cfm/include/detail/storyid/257504.html
Five Republican U.S. senators wrote a letter to President Bush,
It warns that China is using legally acquired U.S. dual-use technology to modernize its military. Electronic warfare capabilities have been accomplished mainly through cooperation with Western companies and by reverse engineering. Further, the senators tell the president, it is important to note that Beijing continues to transfer dual-use technology to states that support international terror networks, and in fact have exported substantial dual-use telecommunications equipment and technology to Iraq.25
At time of press, the bill looked set to receive instant approval on Capitol Hill. Democrats and Republicans are not separate entities they are a Hobsons Choice both abide by the same policies because they are following the same agenda.
25 Bush and Congress Push the Arm Saddam Act Wes Vernon Newsmax October 11 2002 - http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/10/10/193255.shtml
The agenda is order out of manufactured chaos.
Return to The Middle East Exopolitical Saga
How To Deal With a Psychopath: Give Him Nuclear Bombs
In late 2002, North Korea carried out its threat to remove UN seals and dismantle monitoring cameras at a laboratory used to produce weapons-grade plutonium. In January 2003 the country withdrew from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which seeks to control the spread of nuclear technology. The country threatened countless times to utilize its nuclear arsenal, which is already vast according to many experts.
On Christmas Eve 2002, Pyongyang vowed to destroy the earth if anyone interfered with its interests. A similar threat was issued on February 6th 2003 when North Korea publicly stated it would wage total war on the United States by way of a pre-emptive nuclear strike. Propaganda posters from the country show missiles hitting the White House and other famous landmarks, along with North Korean soldiers depicted as giants, crushing American soldiers in their hands. North Korea is controlled by a hereditary Stalinist dictatorship that has starved two million of its citizens to death in favor of building a million-man army.
Some people put the figure at four million, one-quarter of the population. In the far north of the country there is a network of forced labor gulags where people who have expressed a bland political opinion are, along with their entire families, tortured, raped and executed. Horrific bio-chemical experiments are performed on mass numbers of people. Babies are delivered and then stamped to death by the camp guards. If the mother screams while the guards are stamping on the babys neck, she is immediately assassinated by a firing squad.
These guards are rewarded with bonuses and promotions for ripping out prisoners eyeballs. MSNBC published satellite photos of the concentration camps, Plainly visible are acres upon acres of barracks, laid out in regimented military style.
Surrounding each of them is 10-foot-high barbed-wire fencing along with land mines and man traps. There is even a battery of anti-aircraft guns to prevent a liberation by airborne troops.26
FIG 4.3
[CAPTION: A satellite image of the barracks and other facilities of Camp 22 at Haengyong in northeastern North Korea.]
Does this sound like a regime that would respond to diplomatic negotiations? Saddam Hussein is a puppy compared to Kim Jong-Il and yet where is the invasion of North Korea? Where are the forces of the free world?
The New American magazine succinctly outlined the difference between North Korea and Iraq, Crippled by the 1991 UN-led Gulf War, intermittent bombings by U.S. and British aircraft, and 12 years of devastating sanctions, Saddams military poses little threat to Iraqs neighbors, let alone the United States. North Korea, on the other hand, boasts the worlds fourth-largest military; it has 37,000 U.S. troops within easy striking range of its artillery.
Seoul, the South Korean capital, is 34 miles away from the demilitarized zone and well within striking distance of North Korean artillery tubes. And Kims regime has successfully tested the Taepo Dong, a missile capable of hitting Japan; the missiles next generation may be able to strike Alaska.27 President Bush publicly claims to loathe Kim Jong-Il and yet his administration has, like Bill Clintons before him, armed North Korea to the teeth with anything up to and beyond 200 nuclear bombs.
Every other month the media report on how the U.S. continues to transfer highly sensitive material to North Korea, all the while fear mongering about how its not a matter of if but when a city gets nuked. This isnt merely a case of double standards - its absolute lunacy. Under the 1994 Agreed Framework, the Clinton administration agreed to replace North Koreas domestically built nuclear reactors with light water nuclear reactors. So-called government-funded experts stated that light water reactors couldnt be used to make bombs.
Not so according to Henry Sokolski, head of the Non-proliferation Policy Education Centre in Washington,
LWRs could be used to produce dozens of bombs worth of weapons-grade plutonium in both North Korea and Iran. This is true of all LWRsa depressing fact U.S. policymakers have managed to block out.28
Sokolski has also gone on the record as saying,
These reactors are like all reactors, they have the potential to make weapons. So you might end up supplying the worst nuclear violator with the means to acquire the very weapons were trying to prevent it acquiring.29
26 Death, terror in N. Korea gulag Robert Windrem MSNBC January 15 2003 -http://www.msnbc.com/news/859191.asp?0cl=cR 27 Aiding and Abetting the Axis - William Norman Grigg The New American February 24 2003 -http://www.thenewamerican.com/tna/2003/02-24-2003/vo19no04_korea.htm 28 Nuclear Succor for North Korea Matt Bivens Moscow Times September 16 2002 available at http://asp.afghanwar.spb.ru/cgi/answer_e.asp?ID=525
The U.S. State Department contends that the light water reactors cannot be used to produce bomb grade material and yet in 2002 urged Russia to end its nuclear co-operation with Iran for the reason that it doesnt want Iran armed with weapons of mass destruction. Russia is building light water reactors in Iran. The State Department announced on its own web site.
In the official answer to a question asked at the January 31 State Department daily briefing, the State Department said the United States has,
consistently urged Russia to cease all [nuclear] cooperation with Iran, including its assistance to the light water reactor at Bushehr. We have underscored to Russia that an end to Russian nuclear assistance to Iran would allow the United States and Russia to reap the full promise of our new strategic relationship, benefiting Russia economically and strategically far more than any short-term gain from construction of additional reactors or other sensitive transfers to Iran.30
consistently urged Russia to cease all [nuclear] cooperation with Iran, including its assistance to the light water reactor at Bushehr.
We have underscored to Russia that an end to Russian nuclear assistance to Iran would allow the United States and Russia to reap the full promise of our new strategic relationship, benefiting Russia economically and strategically far more than any short-term gain from construction of additional reactors or other sensitive transfers to Iran.30
Therefore according to the State Department, light water reactors in Iran can produce nuclear material but somehow the same rule doesnt apply in North Korea.
More hypocrisy is encountered when we learn that the United States closest ally Britain has also shipped bomb grade material to Iran. Sources for the BBC disclosed that the UK government rubber stamped the shipment of key nuclear weapons-grade material to Iran, who have publicly stated their desire to build an atomic bomb, The programme has also interviewed a leading nuclear weapons expert in the UK who says that the Beryllium and other items which the DTI has licensed to Iran add up to a shopping list for a nuclear weapons programme.31
29 US grants N Korea nuclear funds BBC April 3 2002 http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/1908571.stm 30 State Department on Russia-Iran Nuclear Cooperation U.S. Department of State January 31 2003 -http://usinfo.state.gov/topical/pol/arms/03020321.htm 31 UK sells bomb material to Iran BBC September 23 2002 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/2275249.stm
Many questioned why, in late September 2001, UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was suddenly dispatched to Iran to meet with Iranian President Mohammad Khatami. Behind the public facade of diplomatic discussion it is now clear that Straw was bartering for the sale of metal beryllium, a key component for the manufacture of nuclear weapons. This, despite a ban on the sale of arms to Iran under international protocol. Metal beryllium has virtually no conventional use and is exclusive to the development of nuclear weapons.
Let us return to the issue of North Korea and light water reactors. Light water reactors are far more expensive to build than coal or gas-fired plants so we can safely conclude that arming North Koreas nuclear arsenal is not a matter of saving money. On the contrary, its like handing a psychopath a loaded gun.
The 1994 Agreed Framework deal gave North Korea the capacity to generate enough nuclear fuel to produce almost 100 nuclear bombs per year. A 1999 congressional study undertaken by the House North Korea Advisory Group warned,
Through the provision of two light water reactors [LWRs] under the 1994 Agreed Framework, the United States, through KEDO, will provide North Korea with the capacity to produce annually enough fissile material for nearly 100 nuclear bombs, should the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea [DPRK] decide to violate the Nonproliferation Treaty [NPT]. 32
The group further cautioned that the country that receives the largest amount of U.S. foreign aid in the Asia-Pacific region now has the ability to strike the mainland United States with chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. Two renowned nuclear scientists briefed the panel, namely Dr. Victor Gilinsky, a former Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission during the Ford and Carter administrations and former head of the Physical Sciences Department at the RAND Corporation, and Dr. William R. Graham, a former Science Advisor to President Reagan and Deputy Administrator of NASA.
The scientists cautioned,
The light water reactors could produce about 500 kilograms of plutonium annually. They are so much larger than the facilities North Korea stopped building, they will actually produce more plutonium than the gas graphite plants they will replace.33
If the United States government were really interested in upholding vital national security interests, they would immediately halt the construction of reactors and all aid to North Korea, and yet under the conservative Bush regime the Clinton program to arm North Korea is being implemented. The North Korean people are enslaved by a government that is using food as a weapon. Perhaps this is why The EU and the United States, via the UN World Food Program, resumed the shipment of hundreds of thousands of tons in food aid at the end of February 2003.
This goes directly to the sitting dictatorship, which then decides who gets it by their level of allegiance to the state. Food aid only increases the power of Kim Jong-Il and yet it is veiled by the UN in bleeding heart humanitarian rhetoric. The money goes straight to enabling the North Korean leadership to live in the lap of westernized luxury with casinos and lavish new cars (theres that working class communist ethic shining through).
In April 2002 the Bush administration announced that it would release $95 million of American taxpayers dollars to begin construction of the harmless light water reactors. Bush argued that arming the megalomaniac dictator Kim Jong-Il with the potential to produce a hundred nukes a year was, vital to the national security interests of the United States.
32 Clinton Deal Gave N. Korea 100-Nuke-Per-Year Capacity Carl Limbacher Newsmax October 19 2002 -http://www.newsmax.com/showinside.shtml?a=2002/10/19/114657 33 Clinton-Gore North Korea Aid Will Provide Plutonium for Nuclear Bombs, Scientists Warn The House PolicyCommittee April 14 2000 -http://web.archive.org/web/20011217031521/http://policy.house.gov/news/releases/2000/0414nk.htm
Bush released even more money in January 2003, as reported by Bloomberg News,
President George W. Bush is seeking $3.5 million for the international consortium that continues to build two nuclear reactors for North Korea, even as the U.S. confronts the communist regime over nuclear arms.34
The company that got the contract to deliver equipment and services to build the two light water reactor stations was ABB (Asea Brown Boveri), which describes itself as,
a leader in power and automation technologies that enable utility and industry customers to improve performance while lowering environmental impact.
The contract was valued at $200 million and was signed in January 2000.35
FIG 4.4
[CAPTION: One of the light water reactors than can produce nuclear material, graciously handed to Kim Jong-Il by George W. Bush.]
I t should not surprise us that our old friend Donald Rumsfeld, the man who paved the way for U.S. companies to sell Iraq chemical and biological weapons in 1983, was an executive director for ABB from 2000-2001. Rumsfeld resigned when he was appointed U.S. Secretary of Defense.36
Wolfram Eberhardt, a spokesman for ABB confirmed that Rumsfeld was at nearly all the board meetings during his involvement with the company. The meetings were held quarterly in Zurich, Switzerland. However, Rumsfeld again displays his uncanny ability to forget things in stating that he doesnt remember the issue of North Korea being brought before the ABB board. Swiss Info concluded, Rumsfelds position at ABB could prove embarrassing for the Bush administration since while he was a director he was also active on issues of weapons proliferation, chairing the 1998 congressional Ballistic Missile Threat commission.37
34 Bush Seeks $3.5 Million for Group Building N. Korean Reactors Todd Zeranski Bloomberg January 17 2003 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_012003_nkorea.html 35 ABB to deliver systems, equipment to North Korean nuclear plants ABB press release January 20 2000 -http://www.abb.com/global/abbzh/abbzh251.nsf!OpenDatabase&db=/global/ABBZH/abbzh250.nsf&v=c&e=us&c=316DCEEDCA12D32E4125686C00433604 36 Biography of Donald H. Rumsfeld NATO - http://www.nato.int/usa/cv/rumsfeld.html
37 Rumsfeld was on ABB board during deal with North Korea Swiss Info February 24 2003 - http://www.swissinfo.org/sen/swissinfo.html?siteSect=105&sid=1648385
Rumsfeld would obviously have been a major influence in settling the contract that ensured Kim Jong-Il got his dirty hands on that nuclear material. In every single instance, where theres a crazy dictator to be armed, the same names step on up to arm him. These criminals do care about the consequences of their actions, because their actions are designed to obtain a specific consequence. If theres a despot that expresses a desire kill millions of people, the Globalists always ensure the despot has the tools to do it.
North Korea has already fired nuclear-capable missiles that have hit America. You didnt hear about it why?
Because how can an invasion of Iraq be justified when another country known to possess nuclear weapons is already firing missiles at America? It cant, which is why CNN and the rest completely ignored this Korea Times report,
The warhead of a long-range missile test-fired by North Korea was found in the U.S. state of Alaska, a report to the National Assembly revealed yesterday. According to a U.S. document, the last piece of a missile warhead fired by North Korea was found in Alaska, former Japanese foreign minister Taro Nakayama was quoted as saying in the report. Washington, as well as Tokyo, has so far underrated Pyongyangs missile capabilities. 38
The warhead of a long-range missile test-fired by North Korea was found in the U.S. state of Alaska, a report to the National Assembly revealed yesterday.
According to a U.S. document, the last piece of a missile warhead fired by North Korea was found in Alaska, former Japanese foreign minister Taro Nakayama was quoted as saying in the report. Washington, as well as Tokyo, has so far underrated Pyongyangs missile capabilities. 38
38 NK Missile Warhead Found in Alaska Ryu Jin Korea Times March 4 2003 -http //times.hankooki.com/lpage/nation/200303/kt2003030417272311970.htm
Ask yourself why an incident that should have made national and international headlines for weeks wasnt even reported on in America. North Korea has threatened to and is capable of striking an American city with a nuclear missile at any time. The fact that they are further down the list of potential targets is proof that this pre-emptive doctrine is not about protecting America, it is about carefully coordinated imperial expansion.
The Globalists are using American military might to construct a New World Order.
The ultimate agenda behind arming North Korea is to later invade the country and acquire a staging ground to challenge Chinese dominance of North East Asia. China is well aware that any U.S. led takeover of the country will result in American troops stationed on Chinas Manchurian border. Within Chinese political and military circles, it is universally acknowledged that one of the strategic aims of future American aggression against North Korea is to position the U.S. for a devastating confrontation with China. Perhaps the Chinese should expect this because they continue to provide North Korea with chemical, biological and nuclear-arms goods and missile systems.
Many analysts agree that a looming U.S.-China clash will be the catalyst for world war three. Rest assured, the whole thing was planned that way.
Back to Contents
