# Order Out of Chaos - 09

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/order_chaos/order_chaos09.htm

Chapter 9 Counterfeit Foe: Staging a Cosmic Threat
There exists a long-term script to manufacture ET as a universal threat and the fingerprints of the New World Order are all over it.
Let us recap the consistent thesis of this book. Governments, ruling oligarchies, dictatorships both subtle and overt throughout history create their own enemies. They need to manufacture enemies to indefinitely hoodwink the real enemy, the people they govern.
A young and weak empire needs the genuine support of its people because the threat from real outsiders is immediate. A vast, sprawling, decadent empire has swallowed up all its outside enemies and the only threat that remains is you and I. This isnt a modern day conspiracy theory. Its a clever and ruthless tactic used by those in power throughout history.
Consider this quote from Hermann Goering, president of the Reichstag, Nazi Party, and Luftwaffe Commander in Chief,
Naturally the common people dont want war: Neither in Russia, nor in England, nor for that matter in Germany. That is understood. But, after all, it is the leaders of the country who determine the policy and it is always a simple matter to drag the people along, whether it is a democracy, or a fascist dictatorship, or a parliament, or a communist dictatorship. Voice or no voice, the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked, and denounce the peacemakers for lack of patriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works the same in any country.1
The Hegelian Dialectic has never failed because to understand it requires the total breakdown and reconstruction of everything youve ever known. This is a relatively simple process, although it doesnt sound it. It sounds terrifying. Especially when a person has invested their entire life and evolution of thought into the stock of reality. When you inform them that reality isnt what they thought it was, you blowout their stock. It can render an ignorant persons life meaningless. They have to disbelieve simply to justify their own existence.
The War on Terrorism represents the ultimate in thesis-antithesis-synthesis manipulation, but only on an earthly scale. Despite proclamations that this new war may last forever, it will eventually run out of gas. They will re-invent the definition of terrorism over and over but still the paradigm has a finite life span. There is also a reasonable probability that a new superpower such as China will rise to challenge US/Globalist hegemony. However, in the long term, a new enemy will be required - bigger and more pervasive than ever before.
1 Gustave M. Gilbert Nuremberg Diary De Capo Press - 1995
Judging from a study of the UFO and ET contact field of research, along with expert testimony from a leading (and credible) UFO disclosure proponent, it is now obvious that an agenda to present a cosmic alien invasion as the next manufactured crisis will be used as a pretext to fully entrench the New World Order. The technology to pull off this grand deception has been in place since the 1950s in crude form, and today surpasses even the most spectacular scenes from Hollywood blockbusters.
Henry Kissinger, a member of the Bilderberg Group, CFR and Trilateral Commission, raised suspicions that the New World Order would play the fake alien card in the future when he made the following statement at the 1991 Bilderberger conference held in Evians, France,
Today, America would be outraged if U.N. troops entered Los Angeles to restore order. Tomorrow they will be grateful! This is especially true if they were told that there were an outside threat from beyond, whether real or promulgated, that threatened our very existence. It is then that all peoples of the world will plead to deliver them from this evil. The one thing every man fears is the unknown. When presented with this scenario, individual rights will be willingly relinquished for the guarantee of their well-being granted to them by the World Government.2
On more than one occasion Ronald Reagan raised, the premise of an ET menace that would bind civilization into accepting a one-world government.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, was conceived in the Nixon administration. The Carter administration further developed the program but it didnt really get teeth until Reagan stepped into office. From 1982-84 Colonel Oliver North assisted FEMA in drafting its civil defense preparations. Details of these plans emerged during the 1987 Iran-Contra scandal. They included executive orders providing for suspension of the constitution, the imposition of martial law, internment camps, and the turning over of government to the president and FEMA in the event of a national crisis.
In April 1984, President Reagan signed Presidential Directive Number 54 that allowed FEMA to engage in a secret national readiness exercise under the code name of REX 84. The exercise was to test FEMAs readiness to assume military authority in the event of a State of Domestic National Emergency concurrent with the launching of a direct United States military operation in Central America. This much desired emergency never came, despite several provocations. Reagan was instrumental in creating the framework for a police state. However, one could never be realized without the added ingredient of a hostile universal threat.
Reagan identified this potential threat on no less than four public occasions. On 2 Free American - May 2000 - page 16 September 21st, 1987, Reagan told the United Nations General Assembly,
In our obsession with antagonisms of the moment, we often forget how much unites all the members of humanity. Perhaps we need some outside, universal threat to make us recognize this common bond. I occasionally think how quickly our differences worldwide would vanish if we were facing an alien threat from outside this world.3
FIG 9.1
[CAPTION: Former President Ronald Reagan spoke publicly on several occasions
about how people would band together under a world government if faced with the prospect of an extraterrestrial invasion from outer space.]
Reagan repeated these sentiments to reporters as he left the White House for Chicago on May 5th, 1988,
But, Ive often wondered what if all of us in the world discovered that we were threatened by an outer a power from another planet. Wouldnt we all of a sudden find that we didnt have any differences between us at all, we were all human beings, citizens of the world and wouldnt we come together to fight that particular threat?4
3 Listen to this quote as an MP3 file at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/reagan.mp3
4 Reagan-Space Invaders Terence Hunt Associated Press May 8 1988 available at http://www.qtm.net/~geibdan/newsa/reagan.html
Of course, on both occasions Reagan was using an analogy to describe the Cold War. However, we have to recall that Reagan was the ultimate puppet for the New World Order especially after he was kept under wraps by way of the assassination attempt on his life. Who was writing the autocue and for what purpose? Was this to further condition Americans of the reality of a future manufactured alien threat?
Cosmic Deception: Let the Citizen be Aware
Dr. Steven Greer is the director of The Disclosure Project, a non-profit research project working to fully disclose the facts about UFOs, extraterrestrial intelligence, and classified advanced energy and propulsion systems. In a June 2002 article he warned of how a phony UFO invasion would be presented to the public so they would willingly sacrifice their liberty and rally round the government in opposition to the nefarious ETs. Greer describes the ultimate trump card - a hoaxed threat from space, Since 1992 I have seen this script unveiled to me by at least a dozen well-placed insiders.
Of course, initially I laughed, thinking this just too absurd and far-fetched. Dr. Rosin gave her testimony to the Disclosure Project before 9/11. And yet others told me explicitly that things that looked like UFOs but that are built and under the control of deeply secretive black projects, were being used to simulate - hoax - ET-appearing events, including some abductions and cattle mutilations, to sow the early seeds of cultural fear regarding life in outer space. Like the movie Independence Day, an attempt to unite the world through militarism would unfold using ET as the new cosmic scapegoat (think Jews during the Third Reich).
After a period of terrorism - a period during which the detonation of nuclear devices will be threatened and possibly actuated, thus justifying expanding the weaponization of space - an effort will ramp up to present the public with information about a threat from outer space. Not just asteroids hitting the Earth, but other threats. An extraterrestrial threat. I write this now because I have recently been contacted by several highly placed media and intelligence sources that have made it clear to me that hoaxed events and story-lines are imminent that will attempt to further ramp up the fear machine regarding UFOs and ETs. After all, to have an enemy, you must make the people hate and fear a person, a group of people, or in this case an entire category of beings.
This hogwash, already the stuff of countless books, videos, movies, documentaries and the like, will attempt to glom onto the facts, evidence and first-hand insider testimony of The Disclosure Project, and on its coattails, deliver to the world the cosmic deception that falsely portrays ETs as a threat from space. Do not be deceived. By commingling fact with fiction, and by hoaxing UFO events that can look terrifying, the Plan is to eventually create a new, sustainable, off-planet enemy. And who will be the wiser? 5
Greer elaborated on his warning in an October 24 2002 article,
For the military-industrial-laboratory-intelligence-corporate complex, there would be trillions of dollars in lucrative spending for Star Wars - now with a REAL enemy to fight! As they said in the movie Independence Day, Lets kick alien butt...
For schemers wishing to unite the world in militarism and control through fear (as opposed to our common humanity and peace...) what better way to attain this goal than to roll out serious UFO evidence and link it to a body of hoaxed faux-alien encounters contained within the abduction sub-culture? People are easily herded and controlled through fear, and can there be anything more scary than evil aliens floating poor, innocent humans onto UFOs to torture and sexually abuse them? Right.
For misguided religious fanatics and secret religious cults, who pine for the long-awaited end-of the-world, Armageddon scenario, what better fulfillment of their misinterpreted prophecy than a Final Great Battle in space? 6
5 Cosmic Deception - Let the Citizen be Aware - Steven M. Greer M.D. Director, The Disclosure Project - June 2002 -
6 Decoy, Distract and Trash Steven M. Greer M.D. Director, The Disclosure Project October 24 2002
Greer is an expert in his field and far from seeking to debunk the UFO phenomenon; he has devoted his life to gathering the most credible observers and scientific data to prove actual ET contact, and not elite-sponsored sleight of hand fakery. We need to heed his warning and look a little deeper.
On the Record
Now we will delve into the evidence of how technological deception has been considered before as a means of misleading populations.
The Kennedy era anti-Castro covert action plan Operation Mongoose was designed to destabilize Cuban society and turn it against Fidel Castro. Under the umbrella of this strategy was a program dubbed Elimination by Illumination.
It is found in the Congressional Record, in Alleged Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders, Interim Report of the Select Committee to Study Government Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities, November 20, 1975.7 An American Intelligence military psy-op specialist named Edward Lansdale developed the plan.
The operation was to have an American Submarine surface inside Havana harbor at night and project a movie of a Jesus-like figure on the underside of the low-lying clouds that form over the harbor at night. A plane with muffled motors was to have circled just above the clouds while another operative with a loudspeaker exhorted the Cubans below to overthrow Godless Communism.
The plan was never put into action but was seriously considered and, as stated, remains in the Congressional Record to this day.8 An almost exact replica of this proposal came to light in a June 2000 Sydney Morning Herald report.
In 1991 during the Gulf War, top brass of the US Air Force drew up plans to project a giant holographic image of Allah over Baghdad. The scale of the project required a mirror several kilometers across to be positioned in space. However, a more practical method was suggested. When warm air lies on top of cold air, the difference in density is enough to bend light. At higher altitudes, a mirage can make whole landscapes appear in the sky. An artificial mirage could in theory be made by heating the atmosphere with radio waves or microwaves. The USAF then had the problem of making the image appear to speak.
They postulated,
A pulse stream, an internal acoustic field of 5-15KHz can be created which is audible. Thus it may be possible to talk to adversaries in a way which would be most disturbing to them.
The plan was abandoned when it was realized that images of Allah are forbidden in Islam. The Iraqis wouldnt know what they were looking at. Also, the practical difficulties in microwave transmission were described as formidable. A consistent and believable method of voice projection was considered highly improbable.
However, a cursory look at existing US patents suggests such technology was easily procurable:
3,629,521 Hearing Systems, Jan. 8, 1970 3,766,331 Hearing Aid for Producing Sensations in the Brain, Nov. 24,1971 4,858,612 Hearing Device, Dec. 1983 5,159,703 Silent Subliminal Presentation System, Dec. 28, 1989
3,629,521 Hearing Systems, Jan. 8, 1970
3,766,331 Hearing Aid for Producing Sensations in the Brain, Nov. 24,1971
4,858,612 Hearing Device, Dec. 1983
5,159,703 Silent Subliminal Presentation System, Dec. 28, 1989
7 Available at http://history-matters.com/archive/church/reports/ir/contents.htm 8 Talk of projecting giant holograms has been around for years - The San Francisco Bay Guardian - March 13th 2000 -http://www.sfbg.com/nessie/12.html Going back to the Sydney Morning Herald piece, technologies perfect for staging a UFO threat are described, The military certainly appears to believe in the potential use of holograms. A USAF think-tank has devised uses ranging from deceptive holographic imaging to the Star Trek-sounding distortion field projector. These are described as useful for strategic deception purposes.9
It wont take an Independence Day style show to convince people of this new alien threat. If official sources say there is a threat and present limited evidence, the people will still lap it up. If people are being killed the masses will instinctively look to their leaders for protection and order. Youll either be with the government or with the aliens.
Technologies that heat the atmosphere to produce an artificial mirage are no doubt more advanced than our common understanding. Such an application is entirely plausible using HAARP technology. Officially, HAARP is a scientific endeavor aimed at studying the properties and behavior of the ionosphere. However, its also admitted that the applications of the research include military and defense purposes. Is project counterfeit foe a facet of the HAARP agenda currently being conducted in Alaska?
This would certainly fit the bill of Project ARM, a subsidiary of HAARP. ARM (Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program) utilizes a sophisticated array of lasers and microwave devices, surrounded by so-called RASS units that will send sound waves booming skyward over huge outdoor loudspeakers for at least ten minutes every hour. A draft DOE Environmental Assessment, issued December 1996, conceded that the units could generate sound loud enough to be heard as far away as 2,000 meters (6,900 feet). Furthermore, ARM employs laser-radar units known as LIDAR.
Steven Spielberg - the Bilderberg Groups Culture Change Agent
Every year since 1954, the secretive Bilderberg Group (named after the hotel they first met in the Netherlands), comprising elite powerbrokers from Europe and North America, has met to discuss and influence the changing global, political, economic and social landscape. Dotted amongst the usual suspects of Rockefeller, Kissinger and Soros etc. we see the presence of renowned Hollywood filmmaker Steven Spielberg. Spielberg attended the 1999 Bilderberg meeting held at Sintra, Portugal.10
What business does Spielberg, a chieftain of the entertainment industry have secretly mingling with international bankers, military intelligence and world political leaders?
9 Good Lord! What in heavens name is that? - David Hamling - Sydney Morning Herald - February 5th 2000 available at http://www.raven1.net/v2s-god.htm 10 Clinton, Pope join Bilderbergers - World Net Daily - May 26 1999 - http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=17083
Since the 1970s, Spielberg has directed or produced seven of the top twenty grossing films of all time. Throughout his career we see an obsession with the alien/UFO/space theme. From the 1977 Close Encounters of the Third Kind to ET in 1982, to Deep Impact in 1998. All depict an invasion from outer space. Even the movie Jaws is littered with shooting stars and strange lights in the sky. Spielberg was also executive producer for the July 2002 release Men in Black 2, a movie where a shadow government protects the people of the world from an alien threat.
In February 1997 a leading light in the British film industry leaked the story that Spielberg and executives of his company DreamWorks had secretly met with senior Pentagon officials in Los Angeles. The officials told Spielberg to stop everything and produce a movie whose subject matter involved meteors and/or comets.11 One year later Deep Impact was in the can. The film describes a comet hurtling towards earth and the fight for who has the privilege of access to an underground bunker.
Who were these Pentagon officials and why were they so eager for Bilderberg asset Spielberg to produce a movie about a threat from outer space?
Commencing in December 2002, the SciFi Channel will screen Taken, Spielbergs 20-hour mini-series focusing on alien abduction. The cost of this production was a staggering $120 million - making it the most expensive miniseries in television history. Youd think Spielberg would by now have tired of the genre, but his elite controllers are really zealous to implant this alien paradigm in the minds of the public.
Furthermore, Ray Santillis infamous 1995 Alien Autopsy footage now widely accepted as a hoax can again be traced back to Spielberg. The film became all the rage in the international UFO community, with half the specialized publications featuring Santillis alien corpse on their front covers. However, Santilli now appears to be just the front man for the real owner of the film. Santilli admitted in a BBC interview that the money behind the film came from Germany. French network TF1 subsequently reported that the film originated from an individual by the name of Herr Volker Spielberg.
TF1 tried to track this man down but he proved elusive.
FIG 9.2
[CAPTION: Stephen Spielberg why is a Hollywood film director attending secret meetings with the global elite?]
Spielberg is clearly a tool of the elite. His work in Hollywood propagates the reality of an alien presence that has been successfully imbedded in the body 11 Spielberg Taken by Aliens! - UFO Magazine (UK) - January 2002 - page 54 politic. Recent Roper polls tell us that 80% of the American population believes in UFOs.
In conclusion, consider the comments of UFO researcher Jacques Vallee,
When I met Stephen Spielberg, I argued with him that the subject [of UFOs] was even more interesting if it wasnt extraterrestrials. If it was real, physical, but not ET. So he said, Youre probably right, but thats not what the public is expecting - this is Hollywood and I want to give people something thats close to what they expect.12
Why are the Rockefellers Funding the UFO Movement?
The Rockefeller family played a pivotal role in establishing the quasi-secret Globalist Bilderberg, CFR, and Trilateral Commission groups. They represent the apex of global monopoly capitalism. The Rockefellers have a penchant for controlling so-called radical anti-establishment minorities. This is a common tactic and enables the elite to exalt itself by demonizing a shill opposition. The public would prefer to listen to a clean-cut man in a nice suit rather than a dirty hippy with dreadlocks. The leftist underbelly is bankrolled by the establishment.
Thirty years ago when the radical student movement was gaining momentum in North America, the Rockefeller dynasty was surprisingly quick to offer funds. A student leader, James Simon Kunen, in his book entitled The Strawberry Statement, tells us about the 1968 Students for a Democratic Society convention in which,
Men from Business International Roundtables... tried to buy up a few radicals. These men are the worlds industrialists and they convene to decide how our lives are going to go. They offered to finance our demonstrations in Chicago. We were also offered ESSO (Rockefeller) money.13
The Black Panther leader Eldridge Cleaver emphasized how the rich control their so-called adversaries when he wrote,
There is a danger to the healthy development of the American Revolution in the fact that often revolutions are manipulated by the ruling class to appear to be a bigger threat than they really are.14
Frank Capell in the U.S. Review of the News shared similar sentiments,
Of course, we know that these radical students are not going to take over the government. What they are going to do is provide the excuse for the government to take over the people, by passing more and more repressive laws to keep things under control.15
12 New Dawn Magazine May/June 1996 13 James Simon Kunen - The Strawberry Statement: Notes of a College Revolutionary - Random House - 1968
14 The Rockefeller-UFO Connection: Shades of an Alien Conspiracy? - Dr.M.Sabeheddin - New Dawn Magazine - March/April 1996 - http://www.newdawnmagazine.com/Articles/Shades%20of%20an%20Alien%20Conspiracy.html
15 Ibid
So we can ascertain that the Rockefellers and their ilk are playing a rigged game. They need a covert stranglehold on every significant minority movement and the UFO/ET faction is no different.
In March 1993 Laurance Rockefeller, assisted by former naval intelligence officer Cdr Scott Jones, met with then President Bill Clintons Science Adviser Dr. John Gibbons and presented an ominous sounding Matrix of UFO Belief study. On the weekend of 19-20th August 1995 Rockefeller met with Clinton himself at his Wyoming Ranch to further discuss the UFO issue.
On December 18th, 1995, the New York Daily News reported that billionaire Laurance Rockefeller was funding a 150 page UFO report entitled The Best Available Evidence which would subsequently be sent to Bill Clinton and other world leaders.16 The report was distributed widely, but Rockefeller received no response. The reasons are two-fold. Either Rockefeller wasnt in the loop about the fact that the UFO issue had been co-opted as a manipulation tool or the report was actually a cover for a sensitive briefing on the development of an outer space synthesis as a psychological operation.
Rockefeller has also channeled money into the research of Dr. John Mack, the Harvard psychiatrist who has written several books claiming the validity of the alien abduction phenomenon. From 1993-95 Rockefellers donation to Macks Center for Psychology and Social Change in Massachusetts was estimated to be $500,000 in total.
Rockefeller paid for at least two meeting sessions of the Starlight Coalition, a group said to be made up of former intelligence officers and military men interested in UFOs. At one time Rockefeller funded a plan to establish contact with aliens, not using the SETI method (by radio telescope), but by signaling them with banks of powerful halogen lamps. In May 1999 the BBC reported that Rockefeller was funding the UKs largest ever scientific study of crop circles, often linked to UFO activity by researchers.17 Rockefeller has also funded numerous new age groups seeking to usher in a spiritual transformation and new ways of thinking. His money also percolates through the environmental movement, which is controlled at the top and used by the elite to foster neofeudalism and continental land grabs.
A litmus test for the hoaxed cosmic deception was Orson Welles staged and updated dramatization of H.G. Wells The War of the Worlds. H.G. Wells was himself an early initiate of the Illuminati secret societies and wrote several books detailing the goal of the global elite, including The New World Order.
16 Far Out! - George Rush and Joanna Molloy - New York Daily News - December 18 1995 available at http://www.qtm.net/~geibdan/rockman3.html 17 US billionaire funds crop circle research - BBC - May 19 1999 -http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/347439.stm
On October 30, 1938 CBS Radio was broadcasting the music of Ramon Raquello and his orchestra live from the Meridian Room at the Park Plaza in New York City. Suddenly a reporter from Intercontinental Radio News interrupted the broadcast to deliver an important announcement. Astronomers had just detected enormous blue flames shooting up from the surface of Mars.
The broadcast returned to the music of Ramon Raquello, but soon it was interrupted again with more news. Now a strange meteor had fallen to earth, impacting violently on a farm near Grovers Mill, New Jersey. A reporter was soon on hand to describe the eerie scene around the meteor crater, and the broadcast now switched over to continuous coverage of this rapidly unfolding event. To the dismay of the terrified audience listening to the broadcast, the events around the Grovers Mill meteor crater rapidly escalated from the merely strange to the positively ominous. It turned out that the meteor was not a meteor.
It was, in fact, some kind of spaceship from which a tentacled creature, presumably a Martian, soon emerged and blasted the on-lookers with a deadly heat-ray. The invaders began to land in other US cities and then around the world. In an eerily accurate forecast of the events of September 11, one character describes the shock of the enemy advancing at speed across the Hudson River as smoke fills the air of Lower Manhattan.
Compare this with Flight 175 heading for the south tower of the WTC. In the story, homes were evacuated and a state of martial law was declared.
FIG 9.3
[CAPTION: Orson Welles 1938 War of the Worlds broadcast was unwittingly used by the social programmers
as a beta-test for how a population would react to a massive external enemy.]
Original estimates depicted a reaction of total panic amongst one million of the six million listeners. Although this was later scaled down, hundreds of thousands of people thought the play was real despite announcements before, during and after the show indicating that it was just a dramatization. People stocked up cars, stashed food and drove hundreds of miles to loved ones.
Obviously people are (a little) more sophisticated today. However, so is the military intelligence and technology to believably hoax a hostile alien threat. The War of the Worlds broadcast was unlikely to have been a vast conspiracy to test the psychosomatic reaction of the American people to a hoaxed extraterrestrial invasion. However, in hindsight it proved to be a very useful case study.18
18 Listen below to an MP3 archive of the original War of the Worlds broadcast:
An example of a clear test of the publics response to the ET threat was a Walt Disney telecast on the weekend of March 18-19 1995. The documentary featured another elite operative, CEO Michael Eisner, and announced that intelligent contact with alien beings had occurred. The show presented a history of UFO sightings and crashed saucers. Eisner uttered the telling line, For governments determined to maintain their authority, extra-terrestrial contact is pure dynamite. The broadcast went out in five states, Connecticut, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida and California.
It was unannounced and was patently a test as to how the public would react to the declaration of an off-planet threat.
Asteroids and Nuclear War
We should by no means just focus on a hoaxed alien threat. The possibility of an asteroid, whether real or promulgated, causing a chain reaction of chaos on earth, is another consideration. Experts have warned that a small asteroid could accidentally trigger a nuclear war if mistaken for a missile strike.
In July 2002 an Israeli pilot flying an airliner over the Ukraine reported seeing a blue flash in the sky similar to the type of blast caused by a surface-to-air missile, despite Ukrainian authorities saying no such missile had been fired. It is likely that the pilot saw an explosion caused by an asteroid entering the Earths atmosphere at high speed.
The India-Pakistan cold war almost became hot when a meteor with the same energy as the Hiroshima bomb exploded in the Earths atmosphere. Luckily, it was over the Mediterranean Sea at the time. If it had exploded over India or Pakistan the resulting panic could have seen nukes deployed by both sides. Scientists and military chiefs have called for a global warning system to be implemented to identify Near Earth Objects that could launch an accidental war in any country that doesnt have the sophisticated sensory equipment to track them.
Of course when youre manipulating the world accidents dont happen. Take the case of Planet X, supposedly a monster planet, known to the ancients but as yet undiscovered by modern man, which will pass very near the earth as part of its normal 3600-year orbit around the sun with a possibility of actually striking the Earth in 2003.
I doubt the New World Order will introduce the off planet threat so early in the script but its very interesting to note how the media are hyping this issue.
Report From Iron Mountain
In 1967 Dial Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, published a book called Report from Iron Mountain: The Possibility and Desirability of Peace. The Iron Mountain Special Study Group had met four years previously near Hudson, New York.
The fifteen attendees included,
John Kenneth Galbraith, a professor and member of JFKs Brain Trust Dean Rusk, Secretary of State Robert Strange McNamara, Secretary of Defense (later to become president of the World Bank) E.L. Doctorow Victor Navasky George McBundy
John Kenneth Galbraith, a professor and member of JFKs Brain Trust
Dean Rusk, Secretary of State
Robert Strange McNamara, Secretary of Defense (later to become president of the World Bank)
E.L. Doctorow
Victor Navasky
George McBundy
Although the meeting has been dismissed as a hoax by those in the mainstream, the recommendations of the final report have been followed so strictly that even if the meeting was a hoax, the report is still worthy of study. People who dismiss the report altogether are often the type who think that by calling anyone who seeks the truth a loon or a conspiracy nut that makes them part of the sneering elite. They fail to consider the fact that Iron Mountain makes perfect sense for those wishing to dominate the world.
If the report was a hoax then why were U.S. embassies around the world urged to play down public discussion of the report? Why did President Lyndon Johnson hit the roof when he read it? Why is any publisher that threatens to re-release the report threatened with legal action? In 1972 Leonard C. Lewin claimed authorship of the report and debunked it as a hoax in the New York Times. The New York Times is one of the biggest mouth organs of the New World Order and is largely owned by the Sulzberger family, which has interlocking ties with the CIA.
Consider the comments of monopoly capitalist David Rockefeller at the 1991 Bilderberg conference,
We are grateful to the Washington Post, The New York Times, Time Magazine and other great publications whose directors have attended our meetings and respected their promises of discretion for almost forty years. It would have been impossible for us to develop our plan for the world if we had been subjected to the lights of publicity during those years.19
19 David Rockefeller 1991 Bilderberg Conference, Baden Baden, Germany
Even while pushing the hoax angle, Victor Navasky, editor of the political magazine Monocle, who encouraged Lewin to write the report, stated that the report had been intended to, provoke thinking about the unthinkablethe conversion to a peacetime economy and the absurdity of the arms race. So even from this perspective we can judge that the report reflected the attitude of the same elite that later decried it as a hoax.
Over its three years of consultation the Iron Mountain group agreed that war was the single greatest tool ever devised to ensure total fealty and obedience from any given population. If a population is provided with a common external enemy it will instinctively shift into groupthink and rally round any figurehead that promises to fight the evil enemy. Loyalty is returned to the State and dissenters are crushed by the will of the rampaging majority.
This majority are told that patriotism means supporting the government when in fact the earliest forms of nationalism and patriotism in both Europe and America meant the exact opposite. Patriotism is a love of your country and a safeguard against both foreign and domestic enemies, not blind obedience to government. Additionally, war can be used for a multitude of other objectives, such as reviving or crashing an economy or changing the geopolitical landscape to suit the internationalist agenda.
The problem was that, by its very composition, war needed nations and to differentiate between separate nations and sovereign borders was of detriment to Globalism. Nationalism, even when forced upon a people by empty government rhetoric, is still a polar opposite to the Global Village model of thinking desired by the New World Order crowd.
Consider the very definition of nationalism,
The belief that nations will benefit from acting independently rather than collectively, emphasizing national rather than international goals.20
So the Iron Mountain group set out to find an alternative to war that would have the same benefit of enslaving the people. They couldnt do it, the report noted, War has provided both ancient and modern societies with a dependable system for stabilizing and controlling national economies. No alternate method of control has yet been tested in a complex modern economy that has shown itself remotely comparable in scope or effectiveness war is virtually synonymous with nationhood.
The elimination of war implies the inevitable elimination of national sovereignty and the traditional nation-state.21 Now it was accepted that war was irreplaceable, it was decided that the very nature of war itself had to be altered to reflect the new global system. One way this is done today is by having the United Nations authorize every major war and having NATO fight it, thereby convincing the people that nations have united under Globalism to fight the evil little sovereign country, be that Iraq, Serbia fill in the blank. However, the group conceived of another possibility that could be used to corral the nations and people of the entire globe behind war.
They could create a pervasive external alien threat by, uniting mankind against the danger of destruction by creatures from other planets or from outer space. The report states further, Experiments have been proposed to test the credibility of an out of our world invasion threat. It is possible that a fear of the more difficult to explain flying saucer incidents of recent years were in fact, early government experiments of this kind.22 Reports of flying saucers do little harm to black budget programs developing the latest technological breakthroughs in aviation.
Recall that the Stealth Bomber and SR-71 Blackbird were both UFOs before they were officially acknowledged. Today, the top-secret Aurora spy plane is a classified project that utilizes handy camouflage from tantalizing reports of extraterrestrial craft. Reports of flying black triangles are now commonplace.
FIG 9.4
[CAPTION: UFOs have long been used as distractions to camouflage top-secret projects.]
20 Dictionary definition of Nationalism - http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=nationalism
21 Report From Iron Mountain - http://www.museumofhoaxes.com/iron.html (contends report was a hoax)
22 Iron Mountain Report
The group also considered the use of a, giant open-end space research program, aimed at unreachable targets which would unite humanity under a banner of awe and discovery. This was dismissed because there was no external enemy involved, Credibility, in fact, lies at the heart of the problem of developing a political substitute for war. This is where the space-race proposals, in many ways so well suited as economic substitutes for war, fall short. The most ambitious and unrealistic space project cannot of itself generate a believable external menace.23 And yet despite this a global space race did develop and accelerate in the immediate aftermath of the report.
23 Report From Iron Mountain (excerpts) - http //www.williamcooper.com/report.htm
Despite the groups conclusion that a hoaxed alien threat would be unpromising to deceive the masses, we cannot rule out that the proposal was put on the backburner for future use. Technology since the 1960s, both public and covert, has accelerated to the point where a staged alien invasion is entirely possible.
Star Wars
Just take a look at history. The most successful way of legitimizing what would otherwise be a clear abuse of power is to create monsters in the minds of the public. They will always choose the lesser of two evils. There is clearly a program afoot to present a hoaxed and hostile alien or Near Earth Object presence as real.
We continue to be conditioned. Its no strange coincidence that top lieutenants of the Trilateral Commission like Laurance Rockefeller and Bilderberg placemen like Steven Spielberg are funding and fomenting this alien paradigm. That is not to say the entire UFO research field is controlled, but the stranglehold at the top represents elite manipulation and social steering. The technology to pull off this hoax is in place. The historical precedents are documented. It will only take one declaration from the President, one staged attack on a US city, to convince the people of a universal threat. Only a centralized one-world government will be able to protect us.
The ultimate Hegelian Dialectic has been carefully constructed. Upon the conclusion of the war on terrorism, the counterfeit foe awaits.
Back to Contents
