# Order Out of Chaos - 07

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/order_chaos/order_chaos07.htm

Chapter 7 9/11 Aftermath: New World Order
The Oil Pipeline
The rich resources of the Caspian region make Afghanistan the third largest oil producer in the world. Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan possess largely unexplored reserves worth over $3 trillion. I say over because the fact that they are untapped leads some experts to conclude that Kazakhstan alone may hold more oil than Saudi Arabia. An oil consortium that included BP, Mobil, Shell and Total completed a seismic study of the Caspian Sea region in early 1996. It was decided that the only feasible route for the pipeline at this time would be straight through Afghanistan.
Other options were dismissed due to political wrangling and cost. This research team included Zalmay Khalilzad, who was by pure coincidence later appointed Bushs special envoy to Afghanistan. A 1996 London Telegraph article concluded, Another pipeline route exists, and is already at a detailed planning stage. This pipeline, initially for gas, would begin in the Dauletabad field in central Turkmenistan, traverse Afghanistan along the Herat-Kandahar corridor, territory controlled by the Taliban, and exit into Pakistan.1
In late 1997 the Taliban paid a visit to Texas to meet with representatives of the energy giant Unocal company at their Sugarland headquarters. Under the headline Taleban in Texas for talks on gas pipeline, the BBC reported, A senior delegation from the Taleban movement in Afghanistan is in the United States for talks with an international energy company that wants to construct a gas pipeline from Turkmenistan across Afghanistan to Pakistan.2
The Taliban delegations visit was set-up and sponsored by The Center for Afghanistan Studies, which received $1.8 million over two years from Unocal in exchange for the development of regional contacts that would enable Unocal to secure the pipeline deal over competing companies, such as the Argentinean firm Bridas.
Al-Qaeda were known to be monitoring the Taliban-Unocal meetings,
A 1998 memo written by al-Qaida military chief Mohammed Atef reveals that Osama bin Ladens group had detailed knowledge of negotiations that were taking place between Afghanistans ruling Taliban and American government and business leaders over plans for a U.S. oil and gas pipeline across that Central Asian country.3
1 Warring nation holds key to oil riches of Central Asia Christopher Lockwood London Telegraph October 11 1996 - http://www.portal.telegraph.co.uk/htmlContent.jhtml?html=/archive/1996/10/11/wtal111.html
2 Taleban in Texas for talks on gas pipeline BBC December 4 1997 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/west_asia/37021.stm
3 Al-Qaida monitored U.S. negotiations with Taliban over oil pipeline - Jean-Charles Brisard Salon available at http://propagandamatrix.com/Al-Qaida_monitored_US_negotiations_with_Taliban_over_oil_pipeline.htm
In February 1998 John Maresca, Vice President, International Relations, of Unocal Corporation, testified to the House Committee on International Relations regarding the desperate need for a stable Afghan government in order to secure the pipeline. By this time, negotiations with the Taliban were still ongoing but Unocal were becoming frustrated.
After the Bush administration came to power, construction of the pipeline became even more paramount. U.S. and Taliban diplomatic representatives met several times in Washington, Berlin and Islamabad. The last meeting occurred just five weeks before the attacks on Washington and New York. Respected authors Jean-Charles Brisard and Guillaume Dasquie were closely tracking developments for a book that would only become even more striking after the events of September 11 put the saga in a devastating perspective, Brisard and Dasquie draw a portrait of the closest aides to Bush, linking them to the oil business.
Bushs family has a strong oil background, as do some of his top aides. From Vice President Dick Cheney, through the director of the National Security Council Condoleezza Rice, to the ministers of commerce and energy, Donald Evans and Stanley Abraham, all have for long worked for US oil companies.
Cheney was until the end of last year president of Halliburton, a company that provides services for oil industry; Rice was between 1991 and 2000 manager for Chevron; Evans and Abraham worked for Tom Brown, another oil giant.4
In an earlier chapter, we discussed Bushs order for the FBI to back off investigation of Al-Qaeda before September 11. While this was partly to protect Saudi business interests, it was also to keep the Taliban sweet over the oil deal. John ONeill, then Deputy Director of the FBI and Osama bin Ladens main pursuer was furious at his efforts to catch terrorists being blocked and desperately tried to warn that a massive attack would take place if the terrorists continued to be protected. ONeill quit two weeks before 9/11 to work as head of security at the World Trade Center and died on his first day in the collapse as he rushed back in to save victims.
A plan to hunt down bin Laden had been drafted at the very end of Bill Clintons tenure (Clinton had nothing to do with it of course) and Bush let it sit on his desk for eight months while a deal with the Taliban was still possible. Of course the media described this as an accident and when Bush finally did activate the plan, in the week before September 11, it was a pure coincidence that this was also the time when it was decided that the Taliban negotiations were to be brought to a halt.
During the final meeting, a U.S. representative told the Taliban, either you accept our offer of a carpet of gold, or we bury you under a carpet of bombs.
4 US policy on Taliban influenced by oil authors - Julio Godoy Asia Times November 20 2001 - http://www.atimes.com/c-asia/CK20Ag01.html
The Taliban went home and the oilmen tried to figure out how they could justify invading Afghanistan and installing a puppet government. The new Pearl Harbor, which they had begged for a year earlier, was about to take place.
The decision to oust the Taliban was discussed at a July 2001 UN-sponsored international forum in Berlin where it was decided that an invasion would need to take place before October, Niaz Naik, a former Pakistani Foreign Secretary, was told by senior American officials in mid-July that military action against Afghanistan would go ahead by the middle of October. The wider objective, according to Mr Naik, would be to topple the Taleban regime and install a transitional government of moderate Afghans in its place - possibly under the leadership of the former Afghan King Zahir Shah.
Mr Naik was told that Washington would launch its operation from bases in Tajikistan, where American advisers were already in place.5 President Bush had the National Security Presidential Directive detailing the plan against Al-Qaeda on his desk and ready to sign two days before September 11. Of course, the document is presented as a battle plan to fight terrorism but is basically a mandate to invade over 60 countries, one after the other.
The first stage was the invasion of Afghanistan and was, by sheer coincidence I assure you, drawn up just days after it was concluded that the Taliban were unwilling to finalize a deal on the oil pipeline, Officials did not believe that Bush had had the opportunity to closely review the document in the two days between its submission and the Sept. 11 attacks. But it had been submitted to national security adviser Condoleezza Rice, and the officials said Bush knew about it and had been expected to sign it.
Such a directive would normally be approved with the presidents knowledge by his Principals Committee, which in Bushs White House includes Rice, Attorney General John Ashcroft, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Treasury Secretary Paul ONeill and CIA Director George Tenet, among other senior administration officials.6
In June 2001 the Indian public affairs magazine News Insight reported that Russia and the U.S. were about to invade Afghanistan because the Taliban were advancing and threatening to take control of the entire regions oil supply, India and Iran will facilitate US and Russian plans for limited military action against the Taliban if the contemplated tough new economic sanctions dont bend Afghanistans fundamentalist regime.7
5 US planned attack on Taleban George Arney BBC September 18 2001 -http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1550366.stm 6 U.S. planned for attack on al-Qaida MSNBC May 16 2002 -http://propagandamatrix.com/US_planned_for_attack_on_al-Qaida.htm 7 India in anti-Taliban military plan News Insight June 26 2001 -http://www.indiareacts.com/archivefeatures/nat2.asp?recno=10&ctg=%20
Bear in mind that throughout this period the Taliban made numerous offers to hand over bin Laden but the State Department said no. They didnt want bin Laden, they wanted the oil. In November 2001, the BBC made a pathetic attempt at quashing questions about the oil agenda behind the Afghan war.
Their expert Paul Stevens said,
The idea that oil is now driving this war is totally unrealistic. It would be more sensible to be considering a pipeline on the moon.8 The report went on to call anyone who said the war was about a pipeline a conspiracy theorist. In a complete turnaround and without even mentioning their previous story, six months later the BBC carried the headline Afghanistan plans gas pipeline, Afghanistan hopes to strike a deal later this month to build a $2bn pipeline through the country to take gas from energy-rich Turkmenistan to Pakistan and India. Mr Razim said US energy company Unocal was the lead company among those that would build the pipeline, which would bring 30bn cubic meters of Turkmen gas to market annually.9 We see this pattern in the media over and over again. People who blow the whistle are castigated by the very media that then quietly report exactly what the whistleblowers said six months later. Construction of the pipeline is on the verge of commencing as I write and U.S. oil companies primarily Unocal are scrambling for the contract. In late February 2003 Indias Hindu reported, The Petroleum Ministers of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan today formally invited India to join the $ multi-billion pipeline to carry Turkmenistans natural gas to the Indian Ocean via Afghanistan and Pakistan. The 1,500 km pipeline is to cross through Afghanistan, connecting the gas field in southern Turkmenistan to the city of Multan in central Pakistan. It is estimated to cost $3.2 billion.10 And from the Globe and Mail, Pakistan and Turkmenistan signed an ambitious agreement with the Afghan president Friday to build a gas pipeline through war-ravaged Afghanistan. Mr. Karzai defended his countrys prospects, though, saying the security situation in Afghanistan can be considered one of the best in the region and his government would do whatever is necessary to see that the pipeline is completed.11
The idea that oil is now driving this war is totally unrealistic. It would be more sensible to be considering a pipeline on the moon.8 The report went on to call anyone who said the war was about a pipeline a conspiracy theorist. In a complete turnaround and without even mentioning their previous story, six months later the BBC carried the headline Afghanistan plans gas pipeline, Afghanistan hopes to strike a deal later this month to build a $2bn pipeline through the country to take gas from energy-rich Turkmenistan to Pakistan and India.
Mr Razim said US energy company Unocal was the lead company among those that would build the pipeline, which would bring 30bn cubic meters of Turkmen gas to market annually.9 We see this pattern in the media over and over again. People who blow the whistle are castigated by the very media that then quietly report exactly what the whistleblowers said six months later. Construction of the pipeline is on the verge of commencing as I write and U.S. oil companies primarily Unocal are scrambling for the contract. In late February 2003 Indias Hindu reported, The Petroleum Ministers of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan today formally invited India to join the $ multi-billion pipeline to carry Turkmenistans natural gas to the Indian Ocean via Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The 1,500 km pipeline is to cross through Afghanistan, connecting the gas field in southern Turkmenistan to the city of Multan in central Pakistan. It is estimated to cost $3.2 billion.10 And from the Globe and Mail, Pakistan and Turkmenistan signed an ambitious agreement with the Afghan president Friday to build a gas pipeline through war-ravaged Afghanistan.
Mr. Karzai defended his countrys prospects, though, saying the security situation in Afghanistan can be considered one of the best in the region and his government would do whatever is necessary to see that the pipeline is completed.11
Of course, Mr. Karzai refers to Hamid Karzai the puppet who was appointed interim leader of Afghanistan. It wont surprise you to learn that Karzai was a former consultant to - you guessed it - Unocal.
8 A war for the pipelines? Andrew North BBC November 8 2001 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/1644813.stm
9 Afghanistan plans gas pipeline BBC May 13 2002 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/1984459.stm
10 India invited to join Afghan pipeline project B. Muralidhar Reddy - The Hindu February 24 2003 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_022403_911oil.html
11 Ambitious Afghan pipeline deal finally signed Globe and Mail December 30 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_123002_terror2.html
Poppy Paradise: The CIA Regains Control
In July 2000, the Taliban government by order of Mullah Omar imposed a total ban on opium production. Prior to the ban, Afghanistan accounted for 70% of the worlds opium and 80% of heroin destined to North American and European markets. Opium is extracted from poppy seeds and then converted into a morphine base, white heroin or one of three grades of brown heroin. After the ban, poppy production dwindled by more than 90% for 2001.
The global narcotics trade is a turf war between pocket rebel groups around the world and the CIA in league with Wall Street. If these groups pay their cut then they are left alone, if they dont then they are labeled as terrorist organizations and obliterated. This is how people like Noriega go from being business partners to enemies. At an estimated $200 billion, the Afghan Golden Crescent drug trade makes up over a third of the worldwide annual turnover of narcotics. Countless investigations and evidence presented by respected journalists and people who worked for the government have established that the CIA run the global drug trade, they ship in the heroin to destroy your childrens lives and entire communities of people.
When the bombing began in Afghanistan Tony Blair vowed to bomb the poppy fields and yet since late 2001 poppy production and supply has again ballooned to record levels. The CIA put their puppet government in, the drug control agency were kicked out of Afghanistan by the Northern Alliance, their vehicles were stolen and their headquarters occupied.
In order to receive US aid, Hamid Karzais coalition had to make a pro forma announcement in January that opium cultivation is still forbidden, but the extent of this renewed commitment to abstention from Afghanistans prime cash crop was almost simultaneously displayed in the unceremonious ejection of Afghanistans drug control agency from its offices in Kabul, with the drug czars desk being kicked physically into the street.12
FIG 7.1
[CAPTION: After the CIA-friendly puppet government was installed in Afghanistan,
opium once again flowed out of the country at record levels.]
Exactly like the issue of the oil pipeline, the mainstream media called the narcotics agenda a conspiracy theory while at the same time reporting how baffled they were that heroin was flooding western streets at record levels.
Less than a year after the bombing began and the new government was installed, heroin production had soared a whopping 1400 per cent.
12 Opium and Afghanistan - Alexander Cockburn and Jeffrey St. Clair Counterpunch March 6 2002 - http://www.counterpunch.org/bumpercrop.html
Now the UN estimates that more than $1bn worth of the crop is now being produced in farms in the country. The UN says production levels are now close to those of the late 1990s before the Taleban banned poppy cultivation entirely.13
By early 2003 the effects of the CIA regaining control of the illegal Afghan opium trade were being felt at home. The London Independent reported, Heroin is likely to continue flooding into Britain from a huge stockpile in Afghanistan, the Government has been warned by customs officials. The drug appears to be as readily available as ever, despite a series of significant heroin seizures in recent months, according to officials.14 The majority of modern wars have either had a financial agenda of oil or drugs behind them.
Vietnam was about shipping drugs back to the States to promulgate the phony hippie movement, which laid the foundations for the destruction of morality and the strong family unit an attack which accelerates unabated today. It angers me to see young people my age using drugs because they think they are rebelling against the system.
They are in fact destroying their own lives using government products paid for by the blood of innocent babies killed in foreign wars.
The Patriot Act
In the case of every terrorist atrocity, from the Omagh bombing in Northern Ireland to the Oklahoma City bombing, there is always a mammoth package of legislation already ready to be passed immediately after the incident when peoples fear and desire for protection is at its peak. September 11 was no different. The USA Patriot Act was passed on October 25 after the American people had been told that the terrorists had attacked because they hated their freedom. By this very definition the Bush administration were terrorists because they signed into law a bill that was an insult to the principles of freedom.
Congressman Ron Paul told Insight Magazine that the House wasnt even allowed to read the bill and Dick Cheney said that anyone who didnt vote for the bill would be publicly blamed for the next terror attack, Paul confirms rumors circulating in Washington that this sweeping new law, with serious implications for each and every American, was not made available to members of Congress for review before the vote.
Its my understanding the bill wasnt printed before the vote at least I couldnt get it. They played all kinds of games, kept the House in session all night, and it was a very complicated bill. Maybe a handful of staffers actually read it, but the bill definitely was not available to members before the vote.15
13 Poppy production soars in Afghanistan BBC August 19 2002 -http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/2202148.stm 14 Afghan heroin stockpile is threat to UK, Blair warned - Jason Bennetto London Independent January 6 2003 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_010603_general.html
15 Police State - Kelly Patricia OMeara - Insight Magazine November 9 2001 - http://www.insightmag.com/main.cfm?include=detail&storyid=143236
Ron Paul went on to add that the forefathers revolted against much lighter tyranny and publicly called for a revolution. The New York Times openly reported that President Bush was seizing dictatorial power in passing the bill.
Section 802 defines domestic terrorism as actions which,
Involve acts dangerous to human life that are a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State.16
Read that back again to yourself. Any criminal act jaywalking for example is defined as terrorism. What follows is a deeper analysis of how the different provisions violate the U.S. Constitution by Alex Jones. Alexs Save the Bill of Rights Campaign has had nationwide success in persuading city councils to adopt a resolution opposing the Patriot Act.
This is just a snapshot of some of the powers the bill grants,
Gives the Attorney General and Secretary of State the power to designate domestic groups including political and religious organizations as terrorist organizations under the Enemy Combatant designation.
The Enemy Combatant designation gives law enforcement the unprecedented power to secretly seize citizens and non-citizens without ever charging them with a crime, and the dictatorial elements of the Federal Government claim the right to detain these Enemy Combatants indefinitely, at secret, secure military installations inside and outside the United States and to deny them legal representation, all of this while never being charging them with a crime or telling them why they are being held. The Justice Department also claims the right to execute those designated Enemy Combatant in secret after a trial by secret military tribunal.
Grants power to the Attorney General to subject citizens of other nations to indefinite detention as well as transporting them to third-party countries like Egypt and Morocco, where the Justice Department claims they can legally be tortured.
Authorizes total surveillance on confidential communications between attorneys and their clients in Federal custody in terrorism and non-terrorism cases.
Limits disclosure of public documents and records under the Freedom of Information Act.
Section 213 of the USA Patriot Act allows any branch of the Federal or State Governments to break into your home or business, to remove any items (or place items) they wish without a warrant and without informing the person or business of this total violation of the Fourth Amendment.
Section 213 of the USA Patriot Act also decapitates the First Amendment protection of Freedom of Speech by forcing silence on those victimized by their Unconstitutional, warrantless searches.
Section 215 of the USA Patriot Act gives law enforcement expanded authority to obtain library and book store records (violating the Fourth Amendment) all the while prohibiting librarians and store workers from informing patrons of monitoring or information requests (violating the First Amendment).
The USA Patriot Act is the enabling legislation empowering the reorganization from the International to the local level through the Homeland Security enforcement mechanism. The reorganization of the government under Homeland Security is centralized in the new North American Military Command. We are witnessing a complete transformation of the governmental structures in America. The new system that is emerging, what President George W. Bush calls the Homeland is right out of a college textbook detailing the development, expansion and maintenance of dictatorships. The Homeland Security system is the institutionalization of a military-industrial complex dictatorship. It is all color of law, finding its roots in Imperial Rome and fascist Germany.17
16 Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001 Section 802 Available at http://infowars.com/HR_3162/Sec_802.htm
17 Save the Bill of Rights Campaign Alex Jones - http://infowars.com/resolution_resist_tyranny.html
As if Patriot Act I wasnt bad enough, Patriot Act II the Domestic Security Enhancement Act of 2003, went even further in abolishing every vestige of personal freedom. It had already been written up and amended several times in secret just waiting to be passed after the next government terror attack. A copy was leaked from inside the government (again proving we still have good people within the enemy on our side) to the Center for Public Integrity. Again we will cite Alex Jones excellent analysis in revealing the key sections of this terrorist document,
Here is a quick thumbnail sketch of just some of the draconian measures encapsulated within this tyrannical legislation:
SECTION 501 (Expatriation of Terrorists) expands the Bush administrations enemy combatant definition to all American citizens who may have violated any provision of Section 802 of the first Patriot Act. (Section 802 is the new definition of domestic terrorism, and the definition is any action that endangers human life that is a violation of any Federal or State law.)
Section 501 of the second Patriot Act directly connects to Section 125 of the same act. The Justice Department boldly claims that the incredibly broad Section 802 of the First USA Patriot Act isnt broad enough and that a new, unlimited definition of terrorism is needed.Under Section 501 a US citizen engaging in lawful activities can be grabbed off the street and thrown into a van never to be seen again. The Justice Department states that they can do this because the person had inferred from conduct that they were not a US citizen. Remember Section 802 of the First USA Patriot Act states that any violation of Federal or State law can result in the enemy combatant terrorist designation.
SECTION 201 of the second Patriot Act makes it a criminal act for any member of the government or any citizen to release any information concerning the incarceration or whereabouts of detainees. It also states that law enforcement does not even have to tell the press who they have arrested and they never have to release the names.
SECTION 301 and 306 (Terrorist Identification Database) set up a national database of suspected terrorists and radically expand the database to include anyone associated with suspected terrorist groups and anyone involved in crimes or having supported any group designated as terrorist. These sections also set up a national DNA database for anyone on probation or who has been on probation for any crime, and orders State governments to collect the DNA for the Federal government.
SECTION 312 gives immunity to law enforcement engaging in spying operations against the American people and would place substantial restrictions on court injunctions against Federal violations of civil rights across the board.
SECTION 101 will designate individual terrorists as foreign powers and again strip them of all rights under the enemy combatant designation.
SECTION 102 states clearly that any information gathering, regardless of whether or not those activities are illegal, can be considered to be clandestine intelligence activities for a foreign power. This makes news gathering illegal.
SECTION 103 allows the Federal government to use wartime martial law powers domestically and internationally without Congress declaring that a state of war exists.
SECTION 106 is bone-chilling in its straightforwardness. It states that broad general warrants by the secret FSIA court (a panel of secret judges set up in a star chamber system that convenes in an undisclosed location) granted under the first Patriot Act are not good enough. It states that government agents must be given immunity for carrying out searches with no prior court approval. This section throws out the entire Fourth Amendment against unreasonable searches and seizures.
SECTION 109 allows secret star chamber courts to issue contempt charges against any individual or corporation who refuses to incriminate themselves or others. This section annihilates the last vestiges of the Fifth Amendment.
SECTION 110 restates that key police state clauses in the first Patriot Act were not sunsetted and removes the five year sunset clause from other subsections of the first Patriot Act. After all, the media has told us: this is the New America. Get used to it. This is forever.
SECTION 111 expands the definition of the enemy combatant designation.
SECTION 122 restates the governments newly announced power of surveillance without a court order.
SECTION 123 restates that the government no longer needs warrants and that the investigations can be a giant dragnet-style sweep described in press reports about the Total Information Awareness Network. One passage reads, thus the focus of domestic surveillance may be less precise than that directed against more conventional types of crime.*Note: Over and over again, in subsection after subsection, the second Patriot Act states that its new Soviet-type powers will be used to fight international terrorism, domestic terrorism and other types of crimes. Of course the government has already announced in Section 802 of the first USA Patriot act that any crime is considered domestic terrorism.
SECTION 126 grants the government the right to mine the entire spectrum of public and private sector information from bank records to educational and medical records. This is the enacting law to allow ECHELON and the Total Information Awareness Network to totally break down any and all walls of privacy.The government states that they must look at everything to determine if individuals or groups might have a connection to terrorist groups. As you can now see, you are guilty until proven innocent.
SECTION 127 allows the government to takeover coroners and medical examiners operations whenever they see fit. See how this is like Bill Clintons special medical examiner he had in Arkansas that ruled that people had committed suicide when their arms and legs had been cut off.
SECTION 128 allows the Federal government to place gag orders on Federal and State Grand Juries and to take over the proceedings. It also disallows individuals or organizations to even try to quash a Federal subpoena. So now defending yourself will be a terrorist action.
SECTION 129 destroys any remaining whistleblower protection for Federal agents.
SECTION 202 allows corporations to keep secret their activities with toxic biological, chemical or radiological materials.SECTION 205 allows top Federal officials to keep all their financial dealings secret, and anyone investigating them can be considered a terrorist. This should be very useful for Dick Cheney to stop anyone investigating Haliburton.SECTION 303 sets up national DNA database of suspected terrorists. The database will also be used to stop other unlawful activities. It will share the information with state, local and foreign agencies for the same purposes.SECTION 311 federalizes your local police department in the area of information sharing.
SECTION 313 provides liability protection for businesses, especially big businesses that spy on their customers for Homeland Security, violating their privacy agreements. It goes on to say that these are all preventative measures has anyone seen Minority Report? This is the access hub for the Total Information Awareness Network.
SECTION 321 authorizes foreign governments to spy on the American people and to share information with foreign governments.
SECTION 322 removes Congress from the extradition process and allows officers of the Homeland Security complex to extradite American citizens anywhere they wish. It also allows Homeland Security to secretly take individuals out of foreign countries.
SECTION 402 is titled Providing Material Support to Terrorism. The section reads that there is no requirement to show that the individual even had the intent to aid terrorists.
SECTION 403 expands the definition of weapons of mass destruction to include any activity that affects interstate or foreign commerce.SECTION 404 makes it a crime for a terrorist or other criminals to use encryption in the commission of a crime.SECTION 408 creates lifetime parole (basically, slavery) for a whole host of crimes.
SECTION 410 creates no statute of limitations for anyone that engages in terrorist actions or supports terrorists. Remember: any crime is now considered terrorism under the first Patriot Act.
SECTION 411 expands crimes that are punishable by death. Again, they point to Section 802 of the first Patriot Act and state that any terrorist act or support of terrorist act can result in the death penalty.
SECTION 421 increases penalties for terrorist financing. This section states that any type of financial activity connected to terrorism will result to time in prison and $10-50,000 fines per violation.
SECTIONS 427 sets up asset forfeiture provisions for anyone engaging in terrorist activities.18
18 A Brief Analysis of the Domestic Security Enhancement Act 2003, Also Known as Patriot Act II Alex Jones February 10 2003 - http://infowars.com/print_patriotact2_analysis.htm
Along with the leak of Patriot Act II came a whole new stack of bills including The Universal National Service Act of 2003, which creates a mandatory draft under Homeland Security of every young person in the country. They would serve the Empire both abroad and at home, acting as the Domestic Gestapo running federal spy programs and confiscating guns.
Camps and Combatants
The Patriot Act created the scope to broaden the definition of terrorism to encompass any activity deemed subversive by the government. It also focused attention towards domestic terrorists this crackdown isnt just about Mohamed with the Turban, its about American citizens and their families. The Bush administration has developed a parallel legal system to rival those of Soviet Russia or Nazi Germany. By parallel I mean unconstitutional. Whether you are part of the constitutional legal system or the unconstitutional parallel legal system is determined solely by the federal government.
They can secretly arrest you, declare you to be an enemy combatant, and hold you indefinitely at places like Camp X-Ray, which amounts to nothing more than a modern day concentration camp. There are countless British, American and Australian citizens being held at Guantanamo with no links to Al-Qaeda whatsoever.
Please understand that this is not my opinion, it is not a prediction, it is not a theory of what might happen its already here. The Washington Post reported, Under authority it already has or is asserting in court cases, the administration, with approval of the special Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, could order a clandestine search of a U.S. citizens home and, based on the information gathered, secretly declare the citizen an enemy combatant, to be held indefinitely at a U.S. military base. Courts would have very limited authority to second-guess the detention, to the extent that they were aware of it.19
Jose Padilla, the so-called dirty bomber has been in a military brig with no access to a lawyer since June 2002. No reliable evidence was presented to even suspect he might have tried to acquire bomb material. It is about getting people used to the idea that American citizens can be arrested by the secret police and incarcerated in gulags. In August of 2002, Reuters published a story detailing how, on the order of Bush, anyone could be immediately executed without trial. The story appeared on mainstream web sites like ABC News for about an hour but was mysteriously pulled.
I managed to save a copy of the text and here it is in full, WASHINGTON (Reuters) - In a surprise move sure to raise outcries from foreign governments, civil liberties groups and others, The White House today announced with little fanfare that effective immediately, certain individuals whom President Bush or other high-level Administration members have designated as terrorists are subject to summary execution by either Homeland Security operatives, U.S. intelligence operatives, and in some cases by U.S. military personnel.
The presidential directive applies to both U.S. and foreign citizens, both within and outside the United States territory.
19 In Terror War, 2nd Track for Suspects Charles Lane Washington Post December 2 2002 - http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A58308-2002Nov30.html
The White House gave notice of the new policy in as quiet a way as possible, making the announcement late Sunday evening from Crawford, Texas. The unprecedented move is thought certain to generate a firestorm of protest from numerous quarters.
Citing national security considerations, Bush Administration spokespersons have declined to comment on the new directive. In light of the Presidents slippage in recent opinion polls, many political analysts believe the Administration will avoid making any further public references to what is sure to be a very contentious and unpopular decision.20 The same story albeit reworded and put in the context that these executions will only take place abroad, was then released four months later, U.S. citizens working for al-Qaida overseas can legally be targeted and killed by the CIA under President Bushs rules for the war on terrorism, U.S. officials say.
The authority to kill U.S. citizens is granted under a secret finding signed by the president after the Sept. 11 attacks that directs the CIA to covertly attack al-Qaida anywhere in the world. The authority makes no exception for Americans, so permission to strike them is understood rather than specifically described, officials said.21 Do you understand what this means?
This officially makes Bush a dictator, a King, an Emperor his authority now overrides all Constitutional protection. This has nothing to do with fighting Al-Qaeda - the real Al-Qaeda work for the CIA up to 8000 of them were flown to safety out of Kunduz in November 2001. All Bush has to do is say you are working with Al-Qaeda and you are dead! No evidence, no legal representation, no trial, no jury youre just immediately killed! I just quoted the Houston Chronicle saying the same thing!
What to do with American citizens who become enemy combatants? Ah yes, what about that network of concentration camps in America that have been sitting there quietly for decades waiting to be filled? In August 2002 the L.A. Times ran with the headline Camps For Citizens: Ashcrofts Hellish Vision. It was no surprise to those of us who have been trying to warn people about this, but to see it so blatantly in your face was astounding, Atty. Gen. John Ashcrofts announced desire for camps for U.S. citizens he deems to be enemy combatants has moved him from merely being a political embarrassment to being a constitutional menace.
Ashcrofts plan, disclosed last week but little publicized, would allow him to order the indefinite incarceration of U.S. citizens and summarily strip them of their constitutional rights and access to the courts by declaring them enemy combatants.
The proposed camp plan should trigger immediate congressional hearings and reconsideration of Ashcrofts fitness for this important office. Whereas Al Qaeda is a threat to the lives of our citizens, Ashcroft has become a clear and present threat to our liberties.22
20 U.S. Can Target American al-Qaida Agents Reuters August 12 2002 - http://www.abcnews.go.com/wire/World/reuters200200811_493.html (removed)
21 Bush war rules let U.S. kill its own Houston Chronicle December 4 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_120402_terror.html
22 Camps for Citizens: Ashcrofts Hellish Vision - Jonathon Turley L.A. Times August 14 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_081402_martial.html
FIG 7.2
[CAPTION: The Los Angeles Times reports on concentration camps for you and your family.]
Peter Kirsanow, a Bush appointee to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission publicly announced that one more terrorist attack would see the public beg for the perpetrators to be put in internment camps. Remember this has happened in America before when hundreds of thousands of Japanese-American citizens were rounded up and forcibly held in work gulags simply because they were Japanese.
The media portrayed the conditions of these camps as akin to living in the lap of luxury. Many Jews and Latin Americans were also rounded up and then sent to Nazi death camps in exchange for Americans living in Germany. In a follow-up to the L.A. Times story, the Village Voice reported under the headline General Ashcrofts Detention Camps, Now more Americans are also going to be dispossessed of every fundamental legal right in our system of justice and put into camps.
Jonathan Turley reports that Justice Department aides to General Ashcroft,
have indicated that a high-level committee will recommend which citizens are to be stripped of their constitutional rights and sent to Ashcrofts new camps.
On August 8, The Wall Street Journal, which much admires Ashcroft on its editorial pages, reported that,
the Goose Creek, South Carolina, facility that houses [Jose] Padillamostly empty since it was designated in January to hold foreigners captured in the U.S. and facing military tribunalsnow has a special wing that could be used to jail about 20 U.S. citizens if the government were to deem them enemy combatants, a senior administration official said.
The Justice Department has told Turley that it has not denied this story. And space can be found in military installations for more enemy combatants.23
CNN even got in on the act,
If Padilla and Hamdi are feeling lonely, they may soon have company. Attorney General Ashcroft and the White House are considering creating a military detention camps for all U.S. citizens deemed by the administration to be enemy combatants.24
FIG 7.3
[CAPTION: A vast network of concentration camps have been set up across America
to incarcerate American citizens deemed to be terrorists by the occupational U.S. government.]
23 General Ashcrofts Detention Camps Nat Hentoff The Village Voice September 4 2002 - http://villagevoice.com/issues/0236/hentoff.php 24 Why Ashcrofts plan to create internment camps for alleged enemy combatants is wrong Anita Ramasastry CNN September 4 2002 - http://www.cnn.com/2002/LAW/08/columns/fl.ramasastry.detainees/
Okanogan County Commissioner Dave Schulz went public with his conviction that his county had been designated to house one of the camps, Schulz says he has copies of documents, although he hasnt been able to confirm the rumor. Federal officials say they have no idea where the commissioner got the notion of civilian detention camps.
A Federal Emergency Management Agency spokeswoman says it sounds like an urban legend and a Pentagon spokesman says hes not aware of any planned camps in Okanogan County or elsewhere.25 Urban legend? Rumor?
Under the Model States Emergency Health Powers Act, which was passed under Homeland Security, health officials have the authority to quarantine entire cities, herd people into sports stadiums and other proxy holding camps, forcibly inject people and kill them if they try to escape. The Detroit Free Press reported, In one simulation, involving a fake plague that struck at a rock concert in Chicago, questions arose about what to do with people who insisted on breaking the quarantine, said Randy Larsen of the Anser Institute, a security think-tank in Arlington, Va.
Would a National Guardsman, he asked, shoot a grandmother trying to evade quarantine? Maybe, Gostin said. You have to use all reasonable force. Sometimes, he added, that could mean lethal force.26 The rest of this nightmare legislation reads like a guidebook on how to overthrow a Constitutional Republic. State seizure of firearms, seizure of property, food management, clothing management, takeover of all forms of transport, troops on the streets. This scenario has been played out in countless mock terrorist attacks and hour-long TV dramas to condition people on how to react when the biological gets released.
The experts that receive no attention from the media are the ones who point out that the worst thing to do would be to congregate people into large groups. If there is a smallpox outbreak all you have to do is wear gloves and a face mask and stay away from large crowds of people. The government scaremongering about dirty bombs and biological attack is more fear-based mind control it amounts to nothing more than psychological terrorism.
By January 2003 FEMA had completed the framework for multiple temporary cities (sprawling gulags), which would hold millions of Americans in the event of a nuclear or biological attack. Newsmax reported, A source familiar with the deadline believes the effort is related to making the U.S. prepared for counterattacks if the U.S. invades Iraq sometime next year.
25 Concentration Camps in Okanagon County? Associated Press February 27 2002 - http://www.kxly.com/common/getStory.asp?id=26857
26 Vast quarantine role advocated for states - Seth Borenstein Detroit Free Press November 7 2001 - http://www.freep.com/news/nw/terror2001/quar7_20011107.htm
FEMA is currently seeking bids from major real estate management firms, and plans to name three firms in the near future to handle the logistics and planning for these temporary cities. FEMA officials have told these firms they already have tents and trailers ordered. The tents and trailers would provide shelter for displaced populations.27 FEMA responded to this story by categorically denying it.
Newsmax also received letters and E-mails from its readers laughing the report off as a paranoid conspiracy theory. This forced Newsmax to write a second story that pinpointed the exact sections in FEMAs own documents that stated the set-up of the Standby Technical Assistance for Disaster Related Operations program and how FEMA had allocated $300 million just for architects and engineers to construct these giant quarantine cities.
Feel the Love: Martial Law, Foreign Troops and Torture
The training of our military and police has shifted in emphasis from a notion of protecting citizens to that of viewing citizens as a dangerous enemy that needs to be firmly kept under close scrutiny. Even so, many American soldiers and cops will refuse to obey orders to kill, quarantine or otherwise harm American citizens. That is why foreign troops are being brought into America they are willing to carry out ruthless orders without remorse.
The Posse Comitatus Act of 1878 states, From and after the passage of this act it shall not be lawful to employ any part of the Army of the United States, as a posse comitatus, or otherwise, for the purpose of executing the laws, except in such cases and under such circumstances as such employment of said force may be expressly authorized by the Constitution or by act of Congress; and no money appropriated by this act shall be used to pay any of the expenses incurred in the employment of any troops in violation of this section.28 This prevents the military from engaging in domestic law enforcement.
The erosion of this law began long before September 11. In the last few years we have seen an explosion of Urban Warfare operations where the U.S. Army run training operations in U.S. cities and practice running checkpoints, raiding homes, confiscating guns and rounding up citizens to be held in internment camps.
I t is now confirmed that Russian troops were involved in the Waco siege of 1993, where the BATF on orders of Bill Clinton and Janet Reno, torched the Branch Davidian complex killing 76 people, including over 20 children. We must emphasize that the children were burnt to death in order to save them from a dangerous cult that was the U.S. governments stance anyway.
The lies and distortions that the media willingly churned out both before and many years after the siege amount to criminal activity.
27 FEMA Preparing for Mass Destruction Attacks on Cities John O. Edwards Newsmax July 15 2002 - http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/7/14/214727.shtml
28 The Posse Comitatus Act of 1878 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_posse.html
Many people consider April 19 1993 to be the day the New World Order declared war on the American people. Rest assured, the terrorists responsible for Waco will pay for slaughtering children. The MI5 agents will pay for blowing them up at Omagh. You reap what you sow. Just two months after September 11 Senator John Warner wrote to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and asked, Should this law (Posse Comitatus) now be changed to enable our active-duty military to more fully join other domestic assets in this war against terrorism?29
Director of Reichland, pardon me, Homeland Security Tom Ridge called for the military to be given the power to arrest and fire upon citizens on U.S. soil, Ridge said on Fox that the discussion should take place between the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Bushs proposed Homeland Security Department, which has not yet been enacted by Congress.
"We need to be talking about military assets, in anticipation of a crisis event, Ridge said. And clearly, if youre talking about using the military, then you should have a discussion about Posse Comitatus.30
FIG 7.4
[CAPTION: Gas-masked military thugs patrol the streets of Oakland, California
during Operation Urban Warrior desensitising people to seeing military involvement in domestic law enforcement.]
Always bear in mind that the people pushing for the military to arrest and kill U.S. citizens for your protection are the same people that carried out the September 11 attack. It is Constitutional to place troops on American borders but this hasnt happened and the borders are more wide open than ever. This isnt about stopping terrorism; its about terrorizing you and your family.
Northcom divided the United States, Mexico and Canada into three different regions of military command and came into effect on October 1 2002. Military flying patrols now routinely watch American citizens in total violation of Posse Comitatus. Northcoms head of operations, Gen. Ralph E. Eberhart, also publicly called for the military to be let loose on American streets,
Gen. Ralph E. Eberhart, the officer charged with defending the continental U.S., has gone on record that hes all for it and would endorse changes in the law if that translated into a better defended country Eberhart has said that he is anxious to use new technology, including unmanned surveillance blimps cruising at 70,000 feet and Predator drones scanning American coastlines.31
29 1878 Military Law Gets New Attention T.A. Badger Associated Press November 24 2001 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_112401_posse.html 30 U.S. Should Consider Giving Military Arrest Powers, Ridge Says - Alex Canizares Bloomberg News July 21 2002 - available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_072102_martial.html
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. called for Posse Comitatus to be scrapped in a Washington Times report,
Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., Delaware Democrat, yesterday strongly endorsed giving soldiers the power to arrest American civilians.Interviewed yesterday on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Biden, a member of the Judiciary Committee, said the Posse Comitatus Act of 1878, which prevents the military from exercising police powers in this country, should be re-examined and has to be amended. Such a change will happen soon, he said.32
So if all the American troops are busy fighting imperial New World Order wars under a Homeland Security draft who are they going to use? Foreign assets. A new military agreement was signed with Canada to allow U.S. and Canadian troops to cross each others borders and maintain order in the event of a terrorist attack in either country, Under the agreement, either country can request military help from the other.
Any U.S. troops operating in Canada would be under the command of a Canadian officer, while any Canadian troops operating south of the border would be under U.S. command. The agreement calls for increased joint operations and exercises against terrorism. It also creates a new planning group to study how both countries would jointly deploy military forces and emergency services in response to a terrorist attack or other disaster.33 And its not just Canadian troops that will be barging down doors and arresting Americans.
This pact opens the gateway for foreign troops of any nation to be used in domestic law enforcement. Many are already in the country and training with your local police force and army unit in preparation for the next terror attack. Now that you have been defined as a terrorist you can expect to be tortured by the Homeland Love Brigade. All joking aside, torture of terrorists (shoemakers and farmers in the case of the Guantanamo prisoners) began and the media even started discussing whether torture of terrorist suspects children was legitimate.
So I guess it was OK for the Nazis to torture people they defined as their enemies and I guess it was OK for American prisoners captured in Korea and Vietnam to be tortured?
The United States is condoning the torture and illegal interrogation of prisoners held in the wake of September 11, in defiance of international law and its own constitution, according to lawyers, former US intelligence officers and human rights groups.
31 Northern Command General Endorses Posse Comitatus Review Newsmax July 22 2002 -http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/7/22/01218.shtml
32 Biden backs letting soldiers arrest civilians - Joyce Howard Price Washington Times July 22 2002 available athttp://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_072202_martial.html
33 New military cooperation pact allows Canadian, U.S. troops to enter each others territory - Tom Cohen Associated Press - December 10 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_121002_martial.html
They claim prisoners have been beaten, hooded and had painkillers withheld. Some prisoners inside American penal institutions and detention camps have been subjected to interrogation techniques which do not leave injuries, but which lawyers consider to be abusive. Others have been sent to countries where electric shocks and more conventional forms of torture have been used, according to the claims.34
FIG 7.5
[CAPTION: Camp X-Ray -
Shoemakers and farmers are tortured to death in gulags under the new definition of Amerikan freedom.]
As the body bags rolled out of Guantanamo, the liberal human rights lawyer Alan Dershowitz got in on the act, Americans may have to consider ideas as foreign as truth serums and torture warrants when thinking about striking a balance between liberty and security after the terrorist attacks Sept. 11. That was the message celebrity lawyer and civil libertarian Alan M. Dershowitz delivered to a crowd packed into a gymnasium Sunday at the Jewish Community Center in Creve Coeur.
Dershowitz was the opening speaker for the Jewish Book Fair.35
34 US interrogators turn to torture lite - Duncan Campbell - London Guardian January 27 2003 - http://www.guardian.co.uk/usa/story/0,12271,882002,00.html
35 U.S. now might have to consider what once was unthinkable, Dershowitz says - Tina Hesman - St. Louis Post-Dispatch November 4 2001 available at http://www.infowars.com/Police_State/torture_Deshowitz.htm
But what about that balance between liberty and security? There is no balance - either there is liberty or there is Nazi Germany. As Thomas Jefferson said, I would rather be exposed to the inconveniences attending too much liberty than to those attending too small a degree of it.
So we have the government giving itself the authority to secretly arrest anyone they deem to be a terrorist, which under the terms of the legislation is anyone who unwittingly breaks a law. The government can then declare that person an enemy combatant, ship them off to a FEMA camp and have foreign troops torture them and their children. And they said the terrorists wanted to take away our freedoms? I agree, the terrorists have taken away our freedoms but the terrorists wear sharp suits. America is now officially a police state but all these new laws are null and void because they violate the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
Black people were slaves because of a law and just as then, we have to stand up, resist and make it known that we dont follow laws drafted by terrorists.
The Whitewash
The intelligence committees of the Senate and House of Representatives held a series of hearings through to the end of 2002 with a second committee set up to investigate September 11 scheduled for the later months of 2003.
The first probe was touted to be a thorough investigation into the events of September 11 and whether or not they could have been prevented.
As independent research has highlighted, the Bush administration not only had prior knowledge of the terrorist attacks, but actually ran the entire operation. This will strike the naive reader as a bold statement indeed. The information I cite that enables me to make it is as voluminous as it is disturbing and I have already presented it in the previous two chapters.
The investigation was a complete whitewash. The mid-2002 media blitz concerning what the government knew before 9/11 was an orchestrated campaign to put the real evidence of government complicity in the shadows. This enabled the CIA and the FBI to dismiss this watered down issue as one intelligence failure after another.
The House and Senate committees comprised of several well-meaning representatives with good voting records and honorable reputations. However, both groups were dominated by individuals who owe allegiance to interests that directly conflict with the promise of a balanced inquiry.
The Carlyle Group, a secretive Washington, D.C., investment firm managing some $14 billion in assets, including stakes in a number of defense-related companies, is making substantial profits from the war on terrorism. Carlyle also donated a total of over $57,000 to various members of the two panels who, if this were not a dummy operation, would be required to investigate them. Carlyle number just one of numerous companies feeding the war machine that have bankrolled the structure of the 9/11 probe. If the war on terrorism took a blow from this investigation, so would these representatives bank balances. Where was the incentive for a fair hearing? Where was the balance?
Many of the committee members already stated their position on pre-9/11 warnings before the investigation began. They rubbished the very issue they were about to investigate. Likewise, several had a direct hand in crafting the USA Patriot Act. As we have seen, this legislation defines anyone who breaks the law as a terrorist and allows the authorities to search your home without you even knowing about it. These people are put in office to uphold the U.S. Constitution and yet have actively dissected it. September 11th justified the Patriot Act in their eyes. They are not about to humiliate themselves by questioning this justification.
Furthermore, a disturbing majority of the House and Senate representatives hold membership to elite organizations publicly sworn to destroying America in favor of a Globalist one world order system. This trend ranges from the now public U.S. centered Council on Foreign Relations through the Trilateral Commission to the quasi-secret internationalist Bilderberg Group. At the end of the spectrum we even see occult influences like Skull and Bones along with the Freemasons.
The justification for a zealously ordered One World Government is chaos.
Terrorism is the premier method for fomenting this chaos. As a result, any proper investigation that would reveal the source of terrorism is out of the question. The souls of our representatives have already been bought and sold. This is why the House and Senate investigations to come will only achieve their original agenda, to shut down the 9/11 case for good. The 9/11 whitewash will dwarf the Warren Commission, enabling the Globalists terrorism paradigm to rage on. This only emphasizes the importance of the underground media in reaching out to the people with the truth.
The following information was compiled with the assistance of John Horne. The sources and URLs are included in the body text for the sake of consistency. Just take a look at the background of these people, which organizations they belong to and which entities are funding them. Remember, these people were supposed to discover why September 11 happened and if it could have been prevented.
The term conflict of interest is a gross understatement as you will discover.
House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence 107th Congress CHAIRMANPorter J. Goss, R Florida REPUBLICANSDoug Bereuter, NebraskaMichael N. Castle, DelawareSherwood L. Boehlert, New YorkJim Gibbons, NevadaRay LaHood, IllinoisRandy Duke Cunningham, CaliforniaPeter Hoekstra, MichiganRichard Burr, North CarolinaSaxby Chambliss, GeorgiaTerry Everett, Alabama DEMOCRATSNancy Pelosi, California, Ranking DemocratSanford D. Bishop, GeorgiaJane Harman, CaliforniaGary A. Condit, CaliforniaTim Roemer, IndianaSilvestre Reyes, TexasLeonard L. Boswell, IowaCollin C. Peterson, MinnesotaBud Cramer, AlabamaHere are the highlights (or lowlights). --- REPUBLICANS --- POTER J GOSS (http://www.house.gov/goss) As highlighted in a previous chapter, Porter J. Goss was having breakfast with Pakistans Chief Spy General Mahmoud Ahmad, the chief financier of the 9/11 lead hijacker, on the very morning of September 11. Goss role in this investigation was to bury this meeting because it both proves direct government involvement in 9/11 and would bring criminal charges upon Goss personally. No conflict of interest there! A former Central Intelligence Agency Clandestine Services Officer A 1960 honors graduate from Yale University, Goss served two years in the United States Army as an intelligence officer. He moved to Sanibel in 1971 after an illness cut short his 10-year career as a Clandestine Services Officer with the Central Intelligence Agency. Member: Council on Foreign Relations DOUG BEREUTER (aka DOUGLAS KENT BEREUTER)(http://www.house.gov/bereuter) Member: Council on Foreign Relations & Phi Beta Kappa at University of Nebraska (http://politicalgraveyard.com/bio/bentsen-bereuter.html) Donations by Enron 1990-2000: $10,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/news/enron/enron_house_top.asp) MICHAEL N CASTLE (http://www.house.gov/castle) He has played a major role in shaping the intelligence budget in response to the September 11 attacks (no conflict of interest there then) and most recently has traveled to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base on an Intelligence fact finding trip. He will continue his push to reform the U.S. satellite launch program, which he believes needs more accountability and better acquisition practices in order to protect U.S. intelligence and taxpayer dollars.Contributed to Patriot Act (http://www.house.gov/castle/pr_visainpatriot.htm) RANDY DUKE CUNNINGHAM Strong military background. Dukes experience in Vietnam and his background as an educator prepared him well to train fighter pilots at the Navy Fighter Weapons Schoolthe famed Top Gun program at Miramar Naval Air Station. As Commanding Officer of the elite Navy Adversary Squadron, Cunningham flew Russian tactics and formations against Americas best combat fighter pilots. Many of his real-life experiences as a Navy aviator and fighter pilot instructor were depicted in the popular movie Top Gun. Upon his retirement from the Navy in 1987, Cunningham translated the Masters in Business Administration he earned at National University into a successful business in San Diego. (http://www.house.gov/cunningham/about_duke.htm) Oh yes, hes a military man: top contributors 2001/2 (shut your eyes & guess whos top!)1 Carlyle Group $20,0002 Orincon Corp $13,0003 Cubic Corp $12,0004 Northrop Grumman $11,0005 ADCS Inc $10,0005 General Dynamics $10,0005 Science Applications International Corp $10,0008 BAE Systems North America (subsidiary of Carlyle Group) $9,0009 Titan Corp $7,30010 Lockheed Martin $7,00010 Qualcomm Inc $7,00012 Associated Builders & Contractors $6,00012 Copeland, Lowery & Jacquez $6,00012 General Atomics $6,00012 SBC Communications $6,00016 Continental Maritime $5,25017 American Trucking Assn $5,00017 Boeing Co $5,00017 FedEx Corp $5,00017 National Assn for Uniformed Services $5,00017 National Assn of Realtors $5,00017 Seafarers International Union $5,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00007050&cycle=200 2) SAXBY CHAMBLISS (http://www.house.gov/chambliss) Chambliss already publicly announced that he wasnt interested in asking tough questions about September 11 on his own website.While some critics have tried to make political hay with the outrageous suggestion that the president was given specific information that could have prevented the tragedies of last Sept. 11, this is no time to revert to partisan politics. As chairman of the House Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee, I can say that the intelligence information was as vague and nonspecific as most everything else coming out of the intelligence community on terrorism at that time. That said, we should not be distracted from the critical issues we need to address by political mudslinging. For this reason, Rep. Jane Harman (D-Calif.) and I, along with several other colleagues, have introduced a bill that will make great strides in eliminating the stovepipes that exist in the intelligence and law enforcement worlds with respect to the sharing of vital information and helping various computer systems communicate together. (http://www.saxby.org/media/news/newsdetail.asp?n=98) --- THE DEMOCRATS --- SANFORD D BISHOP (http://www.house.gov/bishop) (Member of) Council on Foreign Relations, a privately-funded research and educational organization.A 32nd Degree Mason, a Shriner, and a member of the Mount Zion Baptist Church of Albany, Georgia. (http://www.house.gov/bishop/Biography.html) Also member of the Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity and Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity (http://www.vote-smart.org) JANE HARMAN (http://www.house.gov/harman) 3rd Richest Member of CongressThe Intelligence Committee is a key one for the congresswoman, who as the representative of the 36th District, has major intelligence equipment contractors as her constituents. The new generation of spy satellites, a top-secret project out of a low-profile federal agency called the National Reconnaissance Office, is believed to be bigger in scope than the Manhattan Project, with a cost estimated at $25 billion over 20 years. Two contractors from El Segundo, Raytheon and Boeing, are involved in building the new satellites. Harmans position on the Intelligence Committee means she is one of the few people in the country who is regularly briefed on this highly classified project.(http://easyreader.hermosawave.net/news2001/1213/coverstory.asp) Some top contributors (2001/2)1 AOL Time Warner $13,2502 National Venture Capital Assn $12,0003 Boeing Co $11,5004 General Motors $11,0005 Blue Dog PAC $10,0005 Carpenters & Joiners Union $10,0005 United Auto Workers $10,0008 Park Place Entertainment $9,0009 Jones, Day et al $8,30010 DreamWorks SKG $8,00010 Loral Spacecom $8,00012 Lockheed Martin $7,50012 Raytheon Co $7,500(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00006750&cycle=200 2) Member: Council on Foreign Relations GARY A CONDITTwo words: Chandra Levy COLLIN C PETERSON (http://wwwa.house.gov/collinpeterson) How likely is he to stand up and point fingers?...I am pleased that we have agreed to focus on improving our protection efforts and not waste time trying to assign blame.(http://wwwa.house.gov/collinpeterson/press/107th/inquiry2.htm) US Senate Committee on Intelligence 107th Congress DEMOCRATSBob Graham, Florida - CHAIRMANCarl Levin, MichiganJohn D. Rockefeller, West VirginiaDianne Feinstein, CaliforniaRon Wyden, OregonRichard J. Durbin, IllinoisEvan Bayh, IndianaJohn Edwards, North CarolinaBarbara Mikulski, Maryland REPUBLICANSRichard C. Shelby, Alabama - VICE CHAIRMANJon Kyl, ArizonaJames M. Inhofe, OklahomaOrrin Hatch, UtahPat Roberts, KansasMike DeWine, OhioFred Thompson, TennesseeRichard Lugar, IndianaHere are the highlights (or lowlights) --- DEMOCRATS --- BOB GRAHAM (http://graham.senate.gov/biography.html) Bob Graham met with Al-Qaedas chief financier, Mahmoud Ahmad, on the morning of September 11. As with Porter J. Goss, his role in this investigation was to bury that connection.He was a primary author of the USA PATRIOT ACTEven before September 11th, Senator Graham was the primary mover behind Counterintelligence 21, which President Clinton signed in December 2000 and the Bush administration has pledged to continue. This initiative is a far-reaching, methodical approach to identifying the most sensitive information in our government and then safeguarding that information.He received a bachelors degree in 1959 from the University of Florida, wherehe was Phi Beta KappaSkull & Bones, albeit detached from Yale, established 1935(http://www.fsu.edu/~modlang/pbk/pbkintro.htm)Member: Council on Foreign Relations CARL LEVINMember: Council on Foreign RelationsJOHN D ROCKEFELLER (aka Jay Rockefeller) (aka John Davison Rockefeller IV) (http://rockefeller.senate.gov/rockefeller.cfm)Member: Council on Foreign RelationsMember: Trilateral Commission(confirmed 2002 by e-mailing the Trilateral Commission)Rockefeller is the great-grandson of John D. Rockefeller, one of the worlds first billionaires. Although Forbes estimates the Rockefeller family fortune to be at least $8.5 billion in October 2000, Rockefeller listed assets of more than $100 million - most of which is tied up in three qualified blind trusts and other investments - on his 2000 financial disclosure forms. Other investments listed on his forms include U.S. savings bonds and numerous stocks in his wifes name. The stocks include shares in companies such as DoubleClick Inc., Walt Disney Co., Cisco Systems, Amgen, Applied Materials, AT&T Wireless, PepsiCo Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., Sothebys Holdings Inc., Triangle Pharmaceuticals, United Parcel Service and Rolls-Royce.(http://www.rollcall.com/pages/features/00/wbc/02/01/wbc0121i.html) Top Contributors 2001/21 Delta Airlines $18,5502 Baron & Budd $13,0003 AFLAC Inc $11,0003 United Airlines $11,0005 Bank One Corp $10,1506 Air Line Pilots Assn $10,0006 American Fedn of St/Cnty/Munic Employees $10,0006 Bayer Corp $10,000 (manufacturer of Cipro, the anthrax fighting anti-biotic.President Bush and his entire cabinet were taking Cipro on the evening ofSeptember 11, weeks before the first anthrax letter. Ari Fleischer admitted thisand the Associated Press carried it in a report)366 DASHPAC $10,0006 FedEx Corp $10,0006 Intl Brotherhood of Electrical Workers $10,0006 Machinists/Aerospace Workers Union $10,00013 Ernst & Young $9,00013 OMelveny & Myers $9,00015 Kirkland & Ellis $8,93616 Park Corp $8,00017 Bowles, Rice et al $7,70018 Lockheed Martin $7,300(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00001685&cycle=200 2) DIANNE FEINSTEIN (http://feinstein.senate.gov) Member: Executive Branch - Bilderberg Group(http://www.bilderberg.org/1991.htm) Member: Trilateral Commission(http://politicalgraveyard.com/group/trilateral-commission.html) Strong proponent of USA Patriot Act, stating it would capitalize on a whole new world brought about as a result of September 11th.(http://feinstein.senate.gov/releases01/r-terr1001.htm) RON WYDEN (http://wyden.senate.gov)WYDEN CALLS FOR TERRORIST TRACKING SYSTEM U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) today introduced legislation creating a 36 White House Mail Sorters Anthrax-Free Sandra Sobieraj Associated Press October 24 2001 available at http://www.infowars.com/saved%20pages/Prior_Knowledge/bush_cipro.htm national Terrorist Identification Classification System, or TIC List, to track and share information about known and suspected international terrorists and terrorist organizations that might threaten United States citizens or interests. Wyden, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, proposed the creation of a centralized database comprised of terrorist-related information from the entire U.S. intelligence community and accessible to Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies. The Chair of the Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Bob Graham (Skull and Bones, CFR), is a cosponsor of the bill.(http://wyden.senate.gov/Intelligence%20Database.htm) EVAN BAYH (aka BIRCH EVANS BAYH III) (http://bayh.senate.gov/Bio.htm) Member: Bilderberg Group - Attended 1999 meeting in Portugal with Bill Clinton (http://www.cuttingedge.org/news/n1315.cfm) Father was a Freemason(http://politicalgraveyard.com/bio/bay-bazzle.html#R9M0IOYSM) Top contributors (1997-2002)1 Conseco Inc $63,2502 Morgan Stanley $40,2003 Goldman Sachs $37,0004 Eli Lilly & Co $36,4505 Carlyle Group $26,0586 CIBC Wood Gundy Holdings $24,7507 SBC Communications $24,5558 Bank One Corp $23,5449 Cinergy Corp $22,500(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00003762&cycle=200 2) Co-sponsored a bill to bring back national service(http://www.senate.gov/~bayh/issues_national_service.html) BARBARA MIKULSKI (http://mikulski.senate.gov) Received campaign contributions from Loral CEO Bernard Schwartz in recent years, involved with Clinton Whitewater scandal.(http://emporium.turnpike.net/P/ProRev/whtwtrh.htm) I ntroduced Senate bill S.1697 in November 1993 - proposed draconian and dictatorial powers under FEMA command.(http://www.newnetizen.com/fema/blueprintfortyranny.htm) --- REPUBLICANS --- JON KYL (aka JON LLEWELLYN KYL) (http://kyl.senate.gov/bio.htm) Before the investigative committee has even convened, Kyl has made his mind up...The United States had no warning of the September 11 attack, though it was planned well in advance.(http://kyl.senate.gov/issues/def.htm) Member: Council on Foreign Relations JAMES M INHOFE (http://inhofe.senate.gov) Inhofe has also already declared his bias... Inhofe Blasts Bush Critics on Intelligence Briefing:It is especially outrageous for them to insinuate that President Bush could have prevented the September 11 attacks. Spreading such an obvious lie is despicable.(http://inhofe.senate.gov/pr051702b.html) Top Contributors1 National Republican Senatorial Cmte $17,5002 Carlyle Group $11,0002 El Paso Corp $11,0004 Golden Rule Financial $10,5005 Arvest Bank Group $10,0005 Collazo Enterprises $10,0005 Defend America PAC $10,0005 FedEx Corp $10,0005 Health Net Inc $10,0005 Lockheed Martin $10,0005 Murray Energy Corp $10,0005 New Republican Majority Fund $10,00013 Anadarko Petroleum $9,60014 Outdoor Advertising Assn of America $9,23415 American Bankers Assn $9,00015 Exelon Corp $9,00015 General Dynamics $9,00018 Northrop Grumman $8,00019 Kerr-McGee Corp $7,00019 National Cattlemens Beef Assn $7,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00005582&cycle=200 2) Inhofe was Oklahoma Senator during the last government terror operation, the bombing of the Alred P. Murrah federal building in April 1995. ORRIN HATCH (http://hatch.senate.gov) Supports FBI reforms (key phrase I applaud Director Mueller...)(http://hatch.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=182427) Also, Hatch is well up for Presidential Executive Powers(http://hatch.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=182360) FRED THOMPSON (http://thompson.senate.gov) Member: Council on Foreign RelationsIn 2002, he was elected to the prestigious Council on Foreign Relations, an organization that promotes improved understanding of international affairs through public and private discussion.(http://thompson.senate.gov/about/about.htm) Senate Watergate Committee, Minority Counsel.(http://www.vote-smart.org) Chief of Air Operations in Die Hard II movie (hell be useful for writing the whitewash script)(http://us.imdb.com/Name?Thompson,+Fred+Dalton) RICHARD LUGAR (http://lugar.senate.gov) Member: Council on Foreign RelationsDuring the 99th Congress (1985-86), Lugar served as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, restoring its power and eminence and earning the moniker of most influential Republican voice in foreign policy on Capitol Hill, from New York Times journalist R.W. Apple Jr.As a Navy ensign in the late 1950s, Lugar served in the highly sensitive position of naval intelligence briefer. He arose at 2:30 a.m., memorized overnight intelligence reports from around the globe and summarized them verbally for Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Arleigh Burke, the CIA Director, cabinet secretaries, and members of Congress.
House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence 107th Congress CHAIRMANPorter J. Goss, R Florida REPUBLICANSDoug Bereuter, NebraskaMichael N. Castle, DelawareSherwood L. Boehlert, New YorkJim Gibbons, NevadaRay LaHood, IllinoisRandy Duke Cunningham, CaliforniaPeter Hoekstra, MichiganRichard Burr, North CarolinaSaxby Chambliss, GeorgiaTerry Everett, Alabama DEMOCRATSNancy Pelosi, California, Ranking DemocratSanford D. Bishop, GeorgiaJane Harman, CaliforniaGary A. Condit, CaliforniaTim Roemer, IndianaSilvestre Reyes, TexasLeonard L. Boswell, IowaCollin C. Peterson, MinnesotaBud Cramer, AlabamaHere are the highlights (or lowlights).
House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence 107th Congress
CHAIRMANPorter J. Goss, R Florida
REPUBLICANSDoug Bereuter, NebraskaMichael N. Castle, DelawareSherwood L. Boehlert, New YorkJim Gibbons, NevadaRay LaHood, IllinoisRandy Duke Cunningham, CaliforniaPeter Hoekstra, MichiganRichard Burr, North CarolinaSaxby Chambliss, GeorgiaTerry Everett, Alabama
DEMOCRATSNancy Pelosi, California, Ranking DemocratSanford D. Bishop, GeorgiaJane Harman, CaliforniaGary A. Condit, CaliforniaTim Roemer, IndianaSilvestre Reyes, TexasLeonard L. Boswell, IowaCollin C. Peterson, MinnesotaBud Cramer, AlabamaHere are the highlights (or lowlights).
--- REPUBLICANS ---
POTER J GOSS (http://www.house.gov/goss)
As highlighted in a previous chapter, Porter J. Goss was having breakfast with Pakistans Chief Spy General Mahmoud Ahmad, the chief financier of the 9/11 lead hijacker, on the very morning of September 11. Goss role in this investigation was to bury this meeting because it both proves direct government involvement in 9/11 and would bring criminal charges upon Goss personally.
No conflict of interest there!
A former Central Intelligence Agency Clandestine Services Officer
A 1960 honors graduate from Yale University, Goss served two years in the United States Army as an intelligence officer. He moved to Sanibel in 1971 after an illness cut short his 10-year career as a Clandestine Services Officer with the Central Intelligence Agency.
Member: Council on Foreign Relations
DOUG BEREUTER (aka DOUGLAS KENT BEREUTER)(http://www.house.gov/bereuter) Member: Council on Foreign Relations & Phi Beta Kappa at University of Nebraska (http://politicalgraveyard.com/bio/bentsen-bereuter.html) Donations by Enron 1990-2000: $10,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/news/enron/enron_house_top.asp)
MICHAEL N CASTLE (http://www.house.gov/castle) He has played a major role in shaping the intelligence budget in response to the September 11 attacks (no conflict of interest there then) and most recently has traveled to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base on an Intelligence fact finding trip. He will continue his push to reform the U.S. satellite launch program, which he believes needs more accountability and better acquisition practices in order to protect U.S. intelligence and taxpayer dollars.Contributed to Patriot Act (http://www.house.gov/castle/pr_visainpatriot.htm)
RANDY DUKE CUNNINGHAM Strong military background. Dukes experience in Vietnam and his background as an educator prepared him well to train fighter pilots at the Navy Fighter Weapons Schoolthe famed Top Gun program at Miramar Naval Air Station. As Commanding Officer of the elite Navy Adversary Squadron, Cunningham flew Russian tactics and formations against Americas best combat fighter pilots. Many of his real-life experiences as a Navy aviator and fighter pilot instructor were depicted in the popular movie Top Gun. Upon his retirement from the Navy in 1987, Cunningham translated the Masters in Business Administration he earned at National University into a successful business in San Diego. (http://www.house.gov/cunningham/about_duke.htm)
Oh yes, hes a military man: top contributors 2001/2 (shut your eyes & guess whos top!)1 Carlyle Group $20,0002 Orincon Corp $13,0003 Cubic Corp $12,0004 Northrop Grumman $11,0005 ADCS Inc $10,0005 General Dynamics $10,0005 Science Applications International Corp $10,0008 BAE Systems North America (subsidiary of Carlyle Group) $9,0009 Titan Corp $7,30010 Lockheed Martin $7,00010 Qualcomm Inc $7,00012 Associated Builders & Contractors $6,00012 Copeland, Lowery & Jacquez $6,00012 General Atomics $6,00012 SBC Communications $6,00016 Continental Maritime $5,25017 American Trucking Assn $5,00017 Boeing Co $5,00017 FedEx Corp $5,00017 National Assn for Uniformed Services $5,00017 National Assn of Realtors $5,00017 Seafarers International Union $5,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00007050&cycle=200 2)
SAXBY CHAMBLISS (http://www.house.gov/chambliss) Chambliss already publicly announced that he wasnt interested in asking tough questions about September 11 on his own website.While some critics have tried to make political hay with the outrageous suggestion that the president was given specific information that could have prevented the tragedies of last Sept. 11, this is no time to revert to partisan politics. As chairman of the House Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee, I can say that the intelligence information was as vague and nonspecific as most everything else coming out of the intelligence community on terrorism at that time. That said, we should not be distracted from the critical issues we need to address by political mudslinging. For this reason, Rep. Jane Harman (D-Calif.) and I, along with several other colleagues, have introduced a bill that will make great strides in eliminating the stovepipes that exist in the intelligence and law enforcement worlds with respect to the sharing of vital information and helping various computer systems communicate together. (http://www.saxby.org/media/news/newsdetail.asp?n=98)
--- THE DEMOCRATS ---
SANFORD D BISHOP (http://www.house.gov/bishop) (Member of) Council on Foreign Relations, a privately-funded research and educational organization.A 32nd Degree Mason, a Shriner, and a member of the Mount Zion Baptist Church of Albany, Georgia. (http://www.house.gov/bishop/Biography.html) Also member of the Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity and Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity (http://www.vote-smart.org)
JANE HARMAN (http://www.house.gov/harman) 3rd Richest Member of CongressThe Intelligence Committee is a key one for the congresswoman, who as the representative of the 36th District, has major intelligence equipment contractors as her constituents. The new generation of spy satellites, a top-secret project out of a low-profile federal agency called the National Reconnaissance Office, is believed to be bigger in scope than the Manhattan Project, with a cost estimated at $25 billion over 20 years. Two contractors from El Segundo, Raytheon and Boeing, are involved in building the new satellites. Harmans position on the Intelligence Committee means she is one of the few people in the country who is regularly briefed on this highly classified project.(http://easyreader.hermosawave.net/news2001/1213/coverstory.asp)
Some top contributors (2001/2)1 AOL Time Warner $13,2502 National Venture Capital Assn $12,0003 Boeing Co $11,5004 General Motors $11,0005 Blue Dog PAC $10,0005 Carpenters & Joiners Union $10,0005 United Auto Workers $10,0008 Park Place Entertainment $9,0009 Jones, Day et al $8,30010 DreamWorks SKG $8,00010 Loral Spacecom $8,00012 Lockheed Martin $7,50012 Raytheon Co $7,500(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00006750&cycle=200 2) Member: Council on Foreign Relations
GARY A CONDITTwo words: Chandra Levy
COLLIN C PETERSON (http://wwwa.house.gov/collinpeterson) How likely is he to stand up and point fingers?...I am pleased that we have agreed to focus on improving our protection efforts and not waste time trying to assign blame.(http://wwwa.house.gov/collinpeterson/press/107th/inquiry2.htm)
US Senate Committee on Intelligence 107th Congress DEMOCRATSBob Graham, Florida - CHAIRMANCarl Levin, MichiganJohn D. Rockefeller, West VirginiaDianne Feinstein, CaliforniaRon Wyden, OregonRichard J. Durbin, IllinoisEvan Bayh, IndianaJohn Edwards, North CarolinaBarbara Mikulski, Maryland REPUBLICANSRichard C. Shelby, Alabama - VICE CHAIRMANJon Kyl, ArizonaJames M. Inhofe, OklahomaOrrin Hatch, UtahPat Roberts, KansasMike DeWine, OhioFred Thompson, TennesseeRichard Lugar, IndianaHere are the highlights (or lowlights)
US Senate Committee on Intelligence 107th Congress
DEMOCRATSBob Graham, Florida - CHAIRMANCarl Levin, MichiganJohn D. Rockefeller, West VirginiaDianne Feinstein, CaliforniaRon Wyden, OregonRichard J. Durbin, IllinoisEvan Bayh, IndianaJohn Edwards, North CarolinaBarbara Mikulski, Maryland
REPUBLICANSRichard C. Shelby, Alabama - VICE CHAIRMANJon Kyl, ArizonaJames M. Inhofe, OklahomaOrrin Hatch, UtahPat Roberts, KansasMike DeWine, OhioFred Thompson, TennesseeRichard Lugar, IndianaHere are the highlights (or lowlights)
--- DEMOCRATS ---
BOB GRAHAM (http://graham.senate.gov/biography.html) Bob Graham met with Al-Qaedas chief financier, Mahmoud Ahmad, on the morning of September 11. As with Porter J. Goss, his role in this investigation was to bury that connection.He was a primary author of the USA PATRIOT ACTEven before September 11th, Senator Graham was the primary mover behind Counterintelligence 21, which President Clinton signed in December 2000 and the Bush administration has pledged to continue. This initiative is a far-reaching, methodical approach to identifying the most sensitive information in our government and then safeguarding that information.He received a bachelors degree in 1959 from the University of Florida, wherehe was Phi Beta KappaSkull & Bones, albeit detached from Yale, established 1935(http://www.fsu.edu/~modlang/pbk/pbkintro.htm)Member: Council on Foreign Relations
CARL LEVINMember: Council on Foreign RelationsJOHN D ROCKEFELLER (aka Jay Rockefeller) (aka John Davison Rockefeller IV) (http://rockefeller.senate.gov/rockefeller.cfm)Member: Council on Foreign RelationsMember: Trilateral Commission(confirmed 2002 by e-mailing the Trilateral Commission)Rockefeller is the great-grandson of John D. Rockefeller, one of the worlds first billionaires. Although Forbes estimates the Rockefeller family fortune to be at least $8.5 billion in October 2000, Rockefeller listed assets of more than $100 million - most of which is tied up in three qualified blind trusts and other investments - on his 2000 financial disclosure forms. Other investments listed on his forms include U.S. savings bonds and numerous stocks in his wifes name. The stocks include shares in companies such as DoubleClick Inc., Walt Disney Co., Cisco Systems, Amgen, Applied Materials, AT&T Wireless, PepsiCo Inc., Nortel Networks Corp., Sothebys Holdings Inc., Triangle Pharmaceuticals, United Parcel Service and Rolls-Royce.(http://www.rollcall.com/pages/features/00/wbc/02/01/wbc0121i.html)
Top Contributors 2001/21 Delta Airlines $18,5502 Baron & Budd $13,0003 AFLAC Inc $11,0003 United Airlines $11,0005 Bank One Corp $10,1506 Air Line Pilots Assn $10,0006 American Fedn of St/Cnty/Munic Employees $10,0006 Bayer Corp $10,000 (manufacturer of Cipro, the anthrax fighting anti-biotic.President Bush and his entire cabinet were taking Cipro on the evening ofSeptember 11, weeks before the first anthrax letter. Ari Fleischer admitted thisand the Associated Press carried it in a report)366 DASHPAC $10,0006 FedEx Corp $10,0006 Intl Brotherhood of Electrical Workers $10,0006 Machinists/Aerospace Workers Union $10,00013 Ernst & Young $9,00013 OMelveny & Myers $9,00015 Kirkland & Ellis $8,93616 Park Corp $8,00017 Bowles, Rice et al $7,70018 Lockheed Martin $7,300(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00001685&cycle=200 2)
DIANNE FEINSTEIN (http://feinstein.senate.gov) Member: Executive Branch - Bilderberg Group(http://www.bilderberg.org/1991.htm) Member: Trilateral Commission(http://politicalgraveyard.com/group/trilateral-commission.html) Strong proponent of USA Patriot Act, stating it would capitalize on a whole new world brought about as a result of September 11th.(http://feinstein.senate.gov/releases01/r-terr1001.htm)
RON WYDEN (http://wyden.senate.gov)WYDEN CALLS FOR TERRORIST TRACKING SYSTEM U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) today introduced legislation creating a 36 White House Mail Sorters Anthrax-Free Sandra Sobieraj Associated Press October 24 2001 available at http://www.infowars.com/saved%20pages/Prior_Knowledge/bush_cipro.htm national Terrorist Identification Classification System, or TIC List, to track and share information about known and suspected international terrorists and terrorist organizations that might threaten United States citizens or interests. Wyden, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, proposed the creation of a centralized database comprised of terrorist-related information from the entire U.S. intelligence community and accessible to Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies. The Chair of the Select Committee on Intelligence, Sen. Bob Graham (Skull and Bones, CFR), is a cosponsor of the bill.(http://wyden.senate.gov/Intelligence%20Database.htm)
EVAN BAYH (aka BIRCH EVANS BAYH III) (http://bayh.senate.gov/Bio.htm) Member: Bilderberg Group - Attended 1999 meeting in Portugal with Bill Clinton (http://www.cuttingedge.org/news/n1315.cfm) Father was a Freemason(http://politicalgraveyard.com/bio/bay-bazzle.html#R9M0IOYSM)
Top contributors (1997-2002)1 Conseco Inc $63,2502 Morgan Stanley $40,2003 Goldman Sachs $37,0004 Eli Lilly & Co $36,4505 Carlyle Group $26,0586 CIBC Wood Gundy Holdings $24,7507 SBC Communications $24,5558 Bank One Corp $23,5449 Cinergy Corp $22,500(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00003762&cycle=200 2) Co-sponsored a bill to bring back national service(http://www.senate.gov/~bayh/issues_national_service.html)
BARBARA MIKULSKI (http://mikulski.senate.gov) Received campaign contributions from Loral CEO Bernard Schwartz in recent years, involved with Clinton Whitewater scandal.(http://emporium.turnpike.net/P/ProRev/whtwtrh.htm) I ntroduced Senate bill S.1697 in November 1993 - proposed draconian and dictatorial powers under FEMA command.(http://www.newnetizen.com/fema/blueprintfortyranny.htm)
JON KYL (aka JON LLEWELLYN KYL) (http://kyl.senate.gov/bio.htm) Before the investigative committee has even convened, Kyl has made his mind up...The United States had no warning of the September 11 attack, though it was planned well in advance.(http://kyl.senate.gov/issues/def.htm) Member: Council on Foreign Relations
JAMES M INHOFE (http://inhofe.senate.gov) Inhofe has also already declared his bias... Inhofe Blasts Bush Critics on Intelligence Briefing:It is especially outrageous for them to insinuate that President Bush could have prevented the September 11 attacks. Spreading such an obvious lie is despicable.(http://inhofe.senate.gov/pr051702b.html)
Top Contributors1 National Republican Senatorial Cmte $17,5002 Carlyle Group $11,0002 El Paso Corp $11,0004 Golden Rule Financial $10,5005 Arvest Bank Group $10,0005 Collazo Enterprises $10,0005 Defend America PAC $10,0005 FedEx Corp $10,0005 Health Net Inc $10,0005 Lockheed Martin $10,0005 Murray Energy Corp $10,0005 New Republican Majority Fund $10,00013 Anadarko Petroleum $9,60014 Outdoor Advertising Assn of America $9,23415 American Bankers Assn $9,00015 Exelon Corp $9,00015 General Dynamics $9,00018 Northrop Grumman $8,00019 Kerr-McGee Corp $7,00019 National Cattlemens Beef Assn $7,000(http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/contrib.asp?CID=N00005582&cycle=200 2) Inhofe was Oklahoma Senator during the last government terror operation, the bombing of the Alred P. Murrah federal building in April 1995.
ORRIN HATCH (http://hatch.senate.gov) Supports FBI reforms (key phrase I applaud Director Mueller...)(http://hatch.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=182427) Also, Hatch is well up for Presidential Executive Powers(http://hatch.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=182360)
FRED THOMPSON (http://thompson.senate.gov) Member: Council on Foreign RelationsIn 2002, he was elected to the prestigious Council on Foreign Relations, an organization that promotes improved understanding of international affairs through public and private discussion.(http://thompson.senate.gov/about/about.htm) Senate Watergate Committee, Minority Counsel.(http://www.vote-smart.org) Chief of Air Operations in Die Hard II movie (hell be useful for writing the whitewash script)(http://us.imdb.com/Name?Thompson,+Fred+Dalton)
RICHARD LUGAR (http://lugar.senate.gov) Member: Council on Foreign RelationsDuring the 99th Congress (1985-86), Lugar served as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, restoring its power and eminence and earning the moniker of most influential Republican voice in foreign policy on Capitol Hill, from New York Times journalist R.W. Apple Jr.As a Navy ensign in the late 1950s, Lugar served in the highly sensitive position of naval intelligence briefer. He arose at 2:30 a.m., memorized overnight intelligence reports from around the globe and summarized them verbally for Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Arleigh Burke, the CIA Director, cabinet secretaries, and members of Congress.
I compiled the investigation detailed above in the spring of 2002 and just as I predicated, the first official probe into the events of 9/11 revealed next to nothing and was just another in a series of insults to the victims. Henry Kissinger, the notorious war criminal, was actually named as head of the second commission but stepped down after public pressure.
P2OG: Making Sure Terrorists are Angry
For all the fear mongering and apocalyptic warnings, post-9/11 America hasnt suffered another terrorist attack and I sincerely hope that is still the case as you are reading these words. To this end, the Pentagon decided that in order to create the likelihood of more terrorist attacks both on U.S. soil and abroad, they would need to provoke terrorists into action.
P2OG stands for the Proactive Pre-emptive Operations Group and is a fusion of the military and CIA. The groups allocated budget is an estimated $3.3 billion, according to the Asia Times37, but other sources have placed it closer to $7 billion.
This body would launch secret operations aimed at stimulating reactions among terrorists and states possessing weapons of mass destruction - that is, for instance, prodding terrorist cells into action and exposing themselves to quickresponse attacks by U.S. forces.38 So there we have the L.A. Times telling us that the Pentagon will now be manipulating terrorists groups to ensure that they attack U.S. interests. Once again, its out in the open and in your face. And yet again the rationale is similar to MI5 having their agents carry out bombings and kill children supposedly to retain their cover in terrorists organizations total lunacy. The program evokes flashback to the maniacal planning of Lemnitzer and his Operation Northwoods cronies.
Moscow Times writer Chris Floyd one was of the few journalists to be rightly outraged by P2OG,
Lets say this plainly, clearly and soberly, so that no one can mistake the intention of Rumsfelds planthe United States government is planning to use cover and deception and secret military operations to provoke murderous terrorist attacks on innocent people. Lets say it again: Donald Rumsfeld, Dick Cheney, George W. Bush and the other members of the unelected regime in Washington plan to deliberately foment the murder of innocent peopleyour family, your friends, your lovers, youin order to further their geopolitical ambitions.39
Lets say this plainly, clearly and soberly, so that no one can mistake the intention of Rumsfelds planthe United States government is planning to use cover and deception and secret military operations to provoke murderous terrorist attacks on innocent people.
Lets say it again: Donald Rumsfeld, Dick Cheney, George W. Bush and the other members of the unelected regime in Washington plan to deliberately foment the murder of innocent peopleyour family, your friends, your lovers, youin order to further their geopolitical ambitions.39
37 P2OG allows Pentagon to fight dirty David Isenberg Asia Times November 5 2002 - http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/DK05Ak02.html
38 The Secret War William M. Arkin Los Angeles Times October 27 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_102702_p2og.html
39 Global EyeInto the Dark Chris Floyd Moscow Times November 1 2002 - http://www.tmtmetropolis.ru/stories/2002/11/01/120.html
Further P2OG funding will also go towards creating red teams that will plot imaginary terror attacks on the U.S. and then thwart them. From the evidence weve seen, this sounds like another CIA practicing crashing planes into buildings - the attacks wont be imaginary, they will be real. The government will precipitate them by saying theres no doubt they will happen and then seize on them after they happen by reassuring you that they will protect you by taking your rights away.
Stasiville
The constant (government) threat of terror has turned people into willing informants. The new definition of patriotism is helping the state in any way you can to stop the terrorists, even if it fundamentally violates the rights of the individual. Even a high-tech dictatorship cannot keep track of all its slaves short of putting them in camps and so the citizens need to be encouraged to spy on each other. That sounds like the old Soviet Union I hear you say! And yet, The Bush Administration aims to recruit millions of United States citizens as domestic informants in a program likely to alarm civil liberties groups.
The Terrorism Information and Prevention System, or TIPS, means the US will have a higher percentage of citizen informants than the former East Germany through the infamous Stasi secret police. The program would use a minimum of 4 per cent of Americans to report suspicious activity.40 The TIPS program was quietly announced as part of the Citizen Corps initiative under the jurisdiction of FEMA.
Its intention was to hire people in the kind of professions that involve a high degree of contact with the public postal workers, truck drivers, utility employees etc. These snoops would compile reports on individuals they considered to be engaging in suspicious or subversive activity and in some instances even perform a search on that persons home. This information would then be fed into a centralized Justice Department database.
Just read that back again to yourself and think how far America has been flushed down the toilet in the name of security. Here we have the government openly testing a program where Americans are informing on each other to protect the homeland. The stuff of tacky but nightmarish futuristic movies like The Running Man is actually being implemented in front of our noses. John Mason, a professor of political science at William Paterson University in New Jersey put his finger on the issue in stating,
It is not going to do anything useful, and it is about maintaining a climate of fear, a sort of mobilization for war. It has a lot to do with politics and it gives the general public a way of participating in a war without a visible enemy.41
40 US planning to recruit one in 24 Americans as citizen spies Ritt Goldstein - Sydney Morning Herald July 15 2002 -http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2002/07/14/1026185141232.html 41 Im happy to spy for America - Charles Laurence London Telegraph July 21 2002 -http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2002/07/21/wsnoop21.xml&sSheet=/news/2002/07/21/ixworld.html
Before the program was abandoned, training centers in 10 American cities were set up and stickers were issued with the national TIPS hotline phone number to be displayed on delivery vehicles. Bear in mind, this is all from a Republican administration that is supposed to uphold a conservative ideology of limited government and respect of personal privacy. Republican or Democrat, the agenda and the policies are the same because we have an illegitimate faction in control at the very top.
TIPS drew distain from both the left and right after it was announced. John Whitehead of the Rutherford Institute was quoted in the Washington Times,
This is George Orwells 1984. Its an absolutely horrible and very dangerous idea. Its making Americans into government snoops. President Bush wants the average American to do what the FBI should be doing. In the end, though, nothing is going to prevent terrorists from crashing planes into buildings.42
A major reason behind the eventual death of TIPS was the fact that the postal service declined to take part after being approached by Homeland Security. House Majority Leader Dick Armey then inserted a clause within the bill that established Homeland Security stating that the program would not be included as part of the package. However, the Justice Department only agreed to throw out the added inclusion of a centralized database. The program is on the backburner, waiting to be fully implemented after the next terror attack.
I n Australia an indistinguishable program has already been introduced. The Australian government launched a national campaign entitled Lets Look Out For Australia. Although the Australian public and Congress were firmly against supporting a war in Iraq, with Congress having given Prime Minister John Howard a vote of no confidence, they are united behind their leader in the name of fighting terrorism.
The program is almost identical to the American TIPS program.
It is important to stress that the state advising the citizens of a country to spy on each other is exactly what happened under the East German Stasi system. Erich Honecker, long the leader of East Germany, was not Hitler. But his police state of 17 million people boasted 95,000 full-time Stasi agents, more than double the number of Gestapo agents in Nazi Germany.
The Australian government sent out a booklet on the program to every citizen in the country. The front cover shows happy smiling children and helpful law enforcement, immediately couching the booklet in a warm embrace of government love. The fourth page explains how Australia has been placed under Special Operations Command, which is similar to the U.S. Northcom. Included is a picture of an army helicopter dropping marines onto an Australian street rooftop.
42 Planned volunteer-informant corps elicits 1984 fears Ellen Sorokin Washington Times July 16 2002 -http://www.washingtontimes.com/national/20020716-75882632.htm
On page seven, citizens are advised to keep an eye out for suspicious behavior in their own neighborhood. Included is a cut-out card with an anonymous 24-hour national security hotline for reporting subversives to the federal government. On page nine, suspicious behavior is defined as photography or videotaping of buildings (tourism) and ominously living a lifestyle that doesnt add up. Below in bold is printed please accept heightened security. Australians who still maintained the ability to recognize despotism were unimpressed, Some critics have suggested that Howard is using the current fear of terrorism to mask a more personal and destructive political agenda.
David Day, lecturer in history at Melbournes La Trobe University, said the new campaign was in the tradition of Australian wartime propaganda which vilified the Japanese, although now the enemy is unspecified.43
But why bother presenting tyranny in the form of a government scheme when the tattletale society erected since September 11 has been successfully introducedby stealth anyway? Across America citizens are being encouraged to sign up for programs like Citizen Corps, Secure Corps and AmeriCorps. The Community Anti-Terrorism Training Initiative in Philadelphia had the government training people to spy on their neighbors,
Across the region, regular folksfrom professionals to grandmothersare being trained by the government to be lookouts in the fight against homeland terrorism. Those behind these training programs say they are taking pains to keep them from degenerating into neighborhood spy teams unduly influenced by presumptions and jingoism. Our motto is: Watch America with pride, not prejudice, said Michael Licata, who helped develop a widely used community antiterrorism curriculum. Town watch groups, known as the eyes and ears of the police, have attracted new members since Sept. 11, according to the National Crime Prevention Council. Watch duties have expanded, too, with neighbors out to spot not only vandals and burglars but terrorist cells as well.44
Across the region, regular folksfrom professionals to grandmothersare being trained by the government to be lookouts in the fight against homeland terrorism. Those behind these training programs say they are taking pains to keep them from degenerating into neighborhood spy teams unduly influenced by presumptions and jingoism. Our motto is: Watch America with pride, not prejudice, said Michael Licata, who helped develop a widely used community antiterrorism curriculum.
Town watch groups, known as the eyes and ears of the police, have attracted new members since Sept. 11, according to the National Crime Prevention Council. Watch duties have expanded, too, with neighbors out to spot not only vandals and burglars but terrorist cells as well.44
In this particular program, suspicious behavior included drawing doodles on restaurant napkins. Crime is being merged with terrorism and there are programs being introduced in both Britain and America where people are paid to inform and spy on potential drunk-drivers and speeders. In Nazi Germany, Hitler had his Hitler Youth.
In Orwells 1984 there was the Youth league where children were trained to spy on their parents.
In Bucks County Philadelphia a $400,000 Homeland Security summer camp was set up under Secure Corps, Billed as one of the nations first homeland security training summer camps for teenagers, a program called Secure Corps in Bucks County is drilling 92 young men and women in essential skills for this new, uncertain era.
And those skills include math:
If I have 40 acres of forest, runs a typical problem, how many search dogs will I need to find a fugitive? .Closer! Get closer! one instructor shouted as sweat beaded on Neronis face.
43 The Gdays are over as Australians mount Bali terror hunt Mark Chipperfield - The Scotsman -http://news.scotsman.com/international.cfm?id=12742003 44 Citizens trained for vigilance Lini S. Kadaba - Houston Chronicle December 23 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_122302_tips.html
Neroni is a motormouthed, good-hearted teen from Morrisville who said she joined Secure Corps at the suggestion of her therapist. Her day had begun with a lesson on which type of extinguisher - A, B, C, D or K - was appropriate for what kind of fire. Then she had strapped a compressed-air tank to her back and crawled through a pitch-black 3-D maze meant to simulate a burning house. Now Neroni was calmly edging toward the gas fire, as the air rippled around her. She unleashed a sputtering blast of flame-retardant powder from the fire extinguisher and emerged from the resulting white cloud flashing a sign of triumph. The fire was out. This corner of the homeland was secure.45
These children are paid the minimum wage and trained in tracking down domestic terrorists, evacuating buildings and confiscating firearms. Identical programs have been running in Russia for years. Now the KGB youth has arrived in the new Amerika and the media calmly report on it without pointing out that it has all the hallmarks of a militarized police state.
This is benchmark totalitarianism!
Total Information Awareness
Every purchase you make with a credit card, every magazine subscription you buy and medical prescription you fill, every Web site you visit and e-mail you send or receive, every academic grade you receive, every bank deposit you make, every trip you book and every event you attend all these transactions and communications will go into what the Defense Department describes as a virtual, centralized grand database.
To this computerized dossier on your private life from commercial sources, add every piece of information that government has about you passport application, drivers license and bridge toll records, judicial and divorce records, complaints from nosy neighbors to the F.B.I., your lifetime paper trail plus the latest hidden camera surveillance and you have the supersnoops dream: a Total Information Awareness about every U.S. citizen.46 Total Information Awareness was announced in February 2002, many months before it received any significant media attention and was actually originally a Democrat proposal, proof again that both sides of the political spectrum are controlled.
The programs logo is the all-seeing Illuminati eye overseeing the globe. This was later changed after people pointed out that they were making it a bit obvious who was behind the initiative. The news that John Poindexter was to run it actually followed a warning that there was likely to be a terrorist incident in the U.S. that day. This was it.
TIA was created in tandem with the Information Exploitation Office, which is its overseas equivalent. Both are under the umbrella of DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. DARPAs ancestor, ARPA, was responsible for the creation of the Internet. Admiral John Poindexter was appointed Reagans national security advisor in 1983, the same year that his buddy Donald Rumsfeld was selling chemical and biological weapons to Iraq.
45 With homeland security in mind, summer camp trains teens - Matthew P. Blanchard - Philadelphia Enquirer July 24 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_072402_martial.html 46 You Are a Suspect William Safire New York Times November 14 2002 - http://www.nytimes.com/2002/11/14/opinion/14SAFI.html
He lost his job after being convicted of conspiracy, lying to Congress, defrauding the government, and destroying evidence in the Iran Contra scandal. Iran Contra was the illegal arming of Nicaraguan rebels in order to overthrow the government of the country. At the time, Iran was holding American hostages. President Reagan said he would not negotiate with terrorists. So John Poindexter, along with Oliver North and many others, sold weapons to the Iranians (illegally), then took the money they made and funneled it to the brutal Contra army that they built in Central America (also illegally).
Poindexter was later pardoned after pressure from his military industrial complex buddies. So to recap, we have a convicted felon appointed head of an agency tasked with spying on Americans. How more blatant can it get that criminals run the government?
Total Information Awareness will track absolutely everything but unlike Echelon, it will have the ability to analyze and correlate data to produce detailed dossiers on national security threats. Own a gun? Own a political opinion not in favor of the government? Own a brain? Oh dear, youre a potential terrorist so Homeland Security will have to put you in a camp (you know, those camps that the L.A Times reported on).
FIG 7.6
[CAPTION: The logo for Total Information Awareness an all-seeing Illuminati eye radiating the globe.
This was subsequently removed from DARPAs website but is another example
of how the New World Order agenda is being orchestrated right in front of our noses.]
Total Information Awareness was delayed after a massive backlash from both the left and right but it is just sitting there waiting to be passed after the next terrorist attack. And the government building the mega-databases to spy on the people is the same government carrying out the terrorist attacks. Beginning to see how it works?
Endless Fake Terror Alerts
The ultimate form of control is fear and the fear that you could lose your life at any moment elicits a Pavlovian response towards those who claim they can protect you. Trauma based mind control is not a conspiracy theory and can be observed naturally after people have been subject to distress. The New World Order know this and that is why the U.S. and British governments issued a spate of fabricated terror alerts immediately after September 11 and continue to do so to this day. Concurrently we are reminded daily that its not a matter of if but when the next large terrorist attack occurs.
That is akin to a jail guard telling his boss that its not a matter of if but when all the prisoners are going to escape. If the individuals who staff our intelligence agencies are unable to prevent large-scale terrorist attacks then they should be fired. And yet since September 11 nobody in a position of authority has been sacked and in fact the majority have received raises in addition to the millions of extra funding that has poured in to the FBI and CIA. They have been rewarded for their complicity in 9/11.
In December 2002 Senator Charles Grassly, a Republican, described as a slap in the face and shocking a decision by FBI director Robert Mueller to give an award for exceptional performance to Marion Spike Bowman, head of the FBIs national security law unit. The award is officially titled Presidential Rank of Meritorious Service and includes cash bonuses of between 20 percent or 35 percent of each recipients base salary.
Bowman was instrumental in calling FBI agents off the trail of Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker whose arrest many analysts conclude would have cracked the September 11 plot before it was carried out. Grassly stated,
Unfortunately, this award continues a bad tradition. If the FBI is ever to reform, there must be accountability.47
The head of the State Departments consular service Mary Ryan was awarded $15,000 in October 2002 as part of an outstanding performance bonus. Her office issued visas to 13 of the 19 suicide hijackers, giving them entry to the country.
In addition, Thomas Furey, who was consul-general in the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, was also awarded a bonus. The Saudi embassy was named by former Consulate officer Michael Springman as a conduit for Al-Qaeda members hired for CIA terrorist training in the 80s. We have the dichotomy of the government being rewarded for protecting terrorists while at the same time issuing apocalyptic terror alerts. If I called in a hoax bomb threat to a government building I would rightfully be arrested and yet our governments have been doing the exact same thing on a larger scale without retribution.
I n May and June of 2002 watered down evidence of the Bush administrations prior knowledge of the attacks emerged in the media. Despite the fact that the information was largely a whitewash it was still a source of embarrassment for a regime that had naively become used to saying and doing what it liked by dancing on the graves of the victims of 9/11. To shut down the dissenters and provide the media with a distraction to fill the headlines, the Bush administration released a hoaxed terror alert.
They cautioned that terrorists had hatched plans to attack targets such as stadiums, nuclear power plants, shopping centers, synagogues, apartment houses, subways, and the Liberty Bell, the Brooklyn Bridge and other New York City landmarks. What is even more incredible than the hoax itself is that they openly admitted it! The Washington Times calmly reported, The Bush administration issued a spate of terror alerts in recent days to mute criticism that its national security team sat on intelligence warnings in the weeks before the September 11 attacks.
The warnings, including yesterdays uncorroborated FBI report that terrorists might target the Statue of Liberty, quieted some of the lawmakers who said President Bush failed to act on clues of the September 11 attacks, although Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle yesterday reiterated his demand for an independent investigation.
47 Grassley objects to FBI awards Jerry Seper Washington Times December 20 2002 - http://www.washtimes.com/national/20021220-4292664.htm
The latest alerts were issued as a result of all the controversy that took place last week, said Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer, referring to reports that the president received a CIA briefing in August about terror threats, including plans by Osama bin Ladens al Qaeda network to hijack U.S. commercial airliners.48 All the conservative news outlets tried to bury the story by claiming that it was Dan Rathers opinion that the White House was releasing fake terror alerts. They could then dismiss it as an empty liberal sideswipe, blatantly ignoring the Washington Times report (a conservative publication) and Ari Fleischer himself acknowledging it.
In January 2003 FBI and CIA whistleblowers told Capitol Hill Blue that the White House was scripting phony terror alerts to maintain hysteria, upkeep President Bushs approval ratings and milk extra defense funding. The report that five Pakistani men had entered the States via Canada and were planning on carrying out a dirty bomb or biological attack was completely conjured up by the Bush administrations black propaganda office. New York Harbor was shut down to visibly pump up the fear. One of the named suspects, Mohammed Asghar, was tracked down to Pakistan by the Associated Press. He was a fat guy running a jewelers shop and had never even been to America.
World Net Daily commented,
Other sources within the bureau and the Central Intelligence Agency said the administration is pressuring intelligence agencies to develop something, anything to support an array of nonspecific terrorism alerts issued by the White House and the Department of Homeland Security. CHB reported that FBI and CIA sources said a recent White House memo listing the war on terrorism as a definitive political advantage and fund-raising tool is just one of many documents discussing how to best utilize the terrorist threat.49
Making hoax threats to carry out terrorist acts is punishable by law under H.R. 3209. This legislation outlines that any party doing so will be liable for a fine of up to $250,000 and a prison sentence of up to five years. So why arent the Democrats exposing the fact that the Bush administration is engaging in criminal activity? Democratic strategist Russ Barksdale gives us the answer,
Of course the White House is going to exploit the terrorism threat to the fullest political advantage, they would be fools not to. Wed do the same thing.50
Days after this story broke and began to gain more attention; ABC News sprang into action and whitewashed the story so it could be safely swept under the carpet.
48 Alerts tied to memo flap Joseph Curl Washington Times May 22 2002 - http://www.washingtontimes.com/national/20020522-217139.htm
49 Terror alerts manufactured? - Jon Dougherty World Net Daily January 6 2003 - http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=30312
50 Terrorism alerts based more on political need than fact Doug Thompson Capitol Hill Blue January 2 2003 - http://www.capitolhillblue.com/artman/publish/article_1445.shtml
They reported that the fake terror alert was a mistake as a result of an informant lying to the FBI, thus shifting the emphasis away from the FBI and CIA agents blowing the whistle on how the government was manufacturing evidence to heighten fear.51 To legitimize SWAT cops in Darth Vader masks pushing people around on street corners, the government needed to convince the people that this was a successful method of fighting terrorism. So it was that we saw a wave of arrests and break-ups of Al Qaeda cells from Spain to Italy to England.
Maybe there really were dangerous mass killers around every corner and the government really just wanted to protect us. Not quite. These arrests were subject to a blaze of publicity and headlined the evening news. However, after investigations found no evidence to justify detaining those arrested, their release warranted only a paragraph in the back of the newspaper. A plot to release cyanide in the London Underground was foiled by MI5 and splashed across the front pages. The fact that no cyanide was ever found and most of the suspects were released within days was barely mentioned. Nine arrests were made under anti-terrorism laws and yet six of those detained were released within hours.
In late January 2003, 28 Pakistani men were arrested in a raid in the Italian city of Naples. The headlines shrieked that the men were plotting assassinations and bombings of NATO targets. They had maps of London, the U.S. consulate and American naval bases. They were a definite Al-Qaeda terrorist cell in possession of 800 grams of explosives, enough to blow up a three-story building. Despite all this unfolding in Italy, it made the top story on both American and British news for two days.
Just two weeks later, the BBC quietly announced,
An Italian judge has ordered the release of 28 Pakistani immigrants arrested on suspicion of planning terrorist attacks. The reasons for the order are unclear, but reports suggest little evidence was found against the men.52
And so the story vanished.
In London, a plethora of arrests were made after police supposedly discovered ingredients used to make the deadly ricin poison. Many suspects were later released and doubts emerged as to whether any actual ricin components were seized. The Algerian terrorist ring was said to have obtained the poison from a cave in Afghanistan, where large quantities were found. To know this was false took just a brief glance back in the archives and a story of March 2002.
51 Fake Infiltration - Sources Say Informant Made Up Story of Men Who Slipped Into U.S. ABC News January 6 2003 http://abcnews.go.com/sections/us/DailyNews/alert_hoax030106.html
52 Italy frees Pakistani terror suspects BBC February 13 2003 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/2753077.stm
Under the headline Britain accused on terror lab claim - Story of find in Afghan cave was made up to justify sending marines the London Observer reported, Britain was accused last night of falsely claiming that al-Qaeda terrorists had built a biological and chemical weapons laboratory in Afghanistan to justify the deployment of 1,700 Royal Marines to fight there.
The allegation follows a Downing Street briefing by a senior official to newspapers on Friday which claimed US forces had discovered a biological weapons laboratory in a cave in eastern Afghanistan after fighting near the city of Gardez this month.53 The White House had to publicly admit that the story was fabricated to avoid deeper embarrassment because there was no actual evidence to support the claim. So the original source of the ricin was in actual fact based on a foundation of total fabrication.
After a while the blatantly fake terror alerts that never preceded a terror attack were beginning to lose their gravity. People largely ignored them and were not imbued by fear. The next government threat had to be backed up by physical action.
I t was at this point that Homeland Security chief Tom Ridge announced that the Orwellian terrorism threat level had been raised to orange, one notch short of full out police state takeover. Armed police and the National Guard swarmed the streets of New York and Washington, helicopters and military jets patrolled the skies, Tony Blair considered putting troops on the streets of Britain, tanks were already rolling around Heathrow airport and the M25 motorway, airport screeners made sure more 70-year-old men took their shoes off to be searched.
TV networks rabidly hijacked the fear and reveled in the panic, highlighting interviews with people on the street commenting on how this downtown Beirut military occupation was acceptable because it was part of the new America (or new Amerika). People were encouraged to buy first aid kits and duct tape to seal their windows.
FIG 7.7
[CAPTION: Tanks roll at Heathrow airport after another fake terror alert.]
Yet again, there was no reliable information to indicate a potential terrorist attack (one not carried out by the CIA that is). Many observed that the alarm was merely a show of force to frighten the people into supporting an impending war on Iraq. The government was again terrorizing the citizens.
The measures were put in place because the government had, once again, been lied to by their informants. Or so were told. And once again, ABC News rushed out to whitewash the story, The informant described a detailed plan that an al Qaeda cell operating in either Virginia or Detroit had developed a way to slip past airport scanners with dirty bombs encased in shoes, suitcases, or laptops, sources told ABCNEWS.
53 Britain accused on terror lab claim - Peter Beaumont and Ed Vulliamy London Observer March 24 2002 -http://www.observer.co.uk/international/story/0,6903,673171,00.html
The informant reportedly cited specific targets of government buildings and Christian or clerical centers. This piece of that puzzle turns out to be fabricated and therefore the reason for a lot of the alarm, particularly in Washington this week, has been dissipated after they found out that this information was not true, said Vince Cannistraro, former CIA counter-terrorism chief and ABCNEWS consultant.54
I dont believe for a second that the CIA had at any point believed New York, Washington or Florida had been, according to this lying informant, targets of a dirty bomb attack. As we were warned before by the responsible FBI and CIA agents, the government was again scripting hysterics to bully us into submission. Even though the whole thing was admitted to be a false alarm the orange terror threat status still remained in force days and weeks after.
Targeting Tourists, Not Terrorists: Why Airport Security Is A Charade
The airports of the developed world have been turned into mini prototype police states. with little or no backlash from those forced to pass through them. But of course well suffer any assault on our God-given rights to save us from the terrorists, wont we? This argument is based on the assumption that there are actual terrorists worth worrying about and secondly that the measures being taken in our airports are aimed at stopping their activity. Both claims cannot be substantiated.
Following in the footsteps of several U.S. counterparts, Sydney Airport recently announced its beta testing of face recognition biometric cameras, aimed at identifying terrorists and other undesirable travelers according to the Sydney Morning Herald.55 As with all biometric technologies, the digital algorithms that make up your facial features are captured and compared with a computer database of criminals. If you resemble an enemy of the state then red flags are immediately coordinated to the operator and your dangerous terrorist activity is brought to a swift halt.
Proponents of this system fail to take into account that terrorist masterminds are hardly likely to use notorious criminals to carry out operations where their movements will be filmed a hundred times over. If there were nineteen hijackers on September 11 roaming around American airports, surely there would be multiple video sequences of their activity? The FBI says so but all they have provided us with is a dodgy tape of Atta with two different time stamps on it. The rest is classified due to the ongoing investigation.
Another fairly important factor related to facial recognition technology is that it doesnt actually work. A Boston Globe report, cited by The Register, concludes that a similar test at Bostons Logan Airport failed miserably.
54 False Alarm? - Terror Alert Partly Based on Fabricated Information Brian Ross, Len Tepper and Jill Rackmill ABC News February 13 2003 - http://abcnews.go.com/sections/wnt/US/terror030213_falsealarm.html
55 Passengers secretly filmed in anti-terror trial Jim ORourke Sydney Morning Herald January 5 2003 - http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2003/01/04/1041566268528.html
American people are largely unaware of what a monumental fraud face-recognition is when applied to crowd surveillance. As weve reported numerous times in the past, it simply does not work as advertised, and it cant.56
You see, not unlike a toaster that only has two settings burnt and warm bread facial recognition technology is either far too sensitive or positively laid back. Either Ahmed and his terrorist chums walk on by unhindered or a mother with a pram is likely to be subjected to an armed standoff. On the non-sensitive setting anyone who is aware of the technology can avoid it by wearing a pair of sunglasses.
So what other methods will Big Brother present in order to save us from the terrorists?
In the first stage of what will eventually morph into the behemoth Total Information Awareness the U.S. Justice Department has proposed antiterrorism regulations that would entail everyone who wanted to fly in and out of the country would be forced to disclose detailed personal information, Under the new proposal, Americans on commercial air and sea travel would be required to fill out forms detailing their comings and goings. Under the new regulations, the information would be sent electronically to the government to be matched against security databases.57
Even though the Immigration and Naturalization Service would implement the regulations, the law would apply to American citizens. This at a time when both the northern and southern borders are more wide open than ever. The ACLU, more interested in making sure gay people are allowed to cavort in street parades, have declared no opposition to the proposal.
Some people, perhaps even most, would have no aversion to providing their name, date of birth, citizenship, sex, passport number, country of residence, U.S. visa number, and address while in the United States. I would certainly support such measures for foreigners if I were under the delusion that our governments had any incentive to prevent terrorism. But what most dont realize is that this is only the initial stage of a nice little horror that the government has been planning for a year or more.
As can be judged from reports early last year by both the Washington Post58 and the Los Angeles Times59, these new proposals are merely the first generation in the creation of a centralized government database via the airports and airliners and one that will possibly form the largest chunk of Total Information Awareness.
56 Face recognition fails in Boston airport Thomas C. Greene The Register July 20 2002 - http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/55/26298.html
57 Proposed anti-terror rules for travelers get personal Frank J. Murray Washington Times - http://www.washtimes.com/national/20030104-557708.htm
58 Intricate Screening Of Fliers In Works Robert OHarrow Jr. Washington Post February 1 2002 - http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn?pagename=article&node=&contentId=A5185-2002Jan31Found=true
Federal aviation authorities (power) in alliance with technology companies (greed) eventually plan to delve much deeper into your personal life, right down to your daily activities through to what magazines you read. This, according to Joseph Del Balzo, formerly with the FAA, will enable the government to have, a pretty good idea of whats going on in a persons mind.
Such minute details would characterize an individuals threat assessment so if you willingly submit to letting the government know how many times you go to the toilet a day then youll get a green security grade, cheap airline tickets, fast airport security checks, convenience and consumer love. On the other hand, if you have any semblance of morality or memories of what it was like to live in a free country and refuse the trusted traveler pass youll get a red security grade and will be rightly hassled for the subversive that you are.
The government will have a large task on its hands collating all the data but has already been assured by market research companies that the system is workable. They shall willingly pass on the data theyve collected on you from all those annoying dinnertime calls, just for a small slice of the money pie. Big Brother then quashes our fears by promising us there is no possible scope for abuse of the program. Officials admit that ultimately the system is designed to be integrated into the biometric national ID card. Let me spell it out for you. A mandatory national ID card with your biometric thumbprint scanned on which tells the reader how the government view your behavior on a scale of submissive and compliant with state demands (green) to definite subversive, possible enemy of the state and potential terrorist 9pm house curfew. Get the picture?
Just take a glance at how the early security measures have played out at airports across the world. Every week we hear stories about 18-year-old zit faced adolescents fondling blonde haired, blue-eyed women because they might be terrorists. Or how obese, greasy old men take 8-year-old Katie aside for some special screening. Nicholas Monahan, a film producer, related the harrowing tale of how his pregnant wife was forced to expose herself and have screeners touch her breasts in full public view at Portland International Airport.
Upon seeing his wife crying her eyes out, Monahan complained and was subsequently arrested and thrown in the airport jail (yes they do have those now). Monahan likened his experience to something out of The Gulag Archipelago. The trauma of the experience contributed to his wife having to have a caesarean section, There are plenty of stories like this these days. I dont know how many Ive read where the writer describes some breach of civil liberties by employees of the state, then wraps it all up with a dire warning about what we as a nation are becoming, and how if we dont put an end to it now, then were in for heaps of trouble.
Well you know what? Nothings going to stop the inevitable.
59 Trusted Air Travelers Program Would Minimize Wait L.A. Times February 5 2002 available at http://www.itsa.org/ITSNEWS.NSF/4e0650bef6193b3e852562350056a3a7/248a3bf99f0337ad85256b59006bcb95?OpenDocument
Theres no policy change thats going to save us. Theres no election thats going to put a halt to the onslaught of tyranny. Its here already this country has changed for the worse and will continue to change for the worse. There is now a division between the citizenry and the state. When that state is used as a tool against me, there is no longer any reason why I should owe any allegiance to that state.60
Dont forget for a second that all this is coming from a government that is manufacturing terrorist alerts to keep the issue alive in the minds of voters and to keep President Bushs approval ratings high.
Look for the definition of terrorism in your dictionary and youll get something similar to,
The unlawful use or threatened use of force or violence by a person or an organized group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons.
By this very definition, the only group gaining a political advantage from terrorism or the threat of terrorism is the White House! Who is creating the terrorist threat to justify the windfall of power and money that goes hand in glove with new airport security regulations? The very same group pushing the security regulations.
Heres a solution that would prevent another September 11 from happening, along with preventing our airports from becoming police state processing points. Its a solution that is loaded with common sense, guaranteed to work, but would make no money for technology companies and wouldnt contribute to feeding Total Information Awareness, which is just coincidentally why the government has been dragging its feet over implementing it. Arm the pilots.
The King Has No Clothes: But Saying So Might Land You In Prison
The hallmark of an effective dictatorship, whether that be Stalinist Russia or Hitlers Germany, is the wholesale silencing of the opposing voice. Criticism of the government must be eliminated because the foundation of despots crumbles when their authority is questioned in a sober and educated manner. For those of us who dont live in countries like China or Zimbabwe, a benchmark of how healthy our freedoms are is to judge how our government reacts to criticism. We should therefore be alarmed that a growing pretext is being set whereby it is either illegal or an act of political suicide to criticize President Bush.
Prior to September 11, jokes about George W. Bushs questionable intelligence were the highlight of any given evening at the comedy club. Bushs own words provided enough material to build on. Consider the following,
Ive coined new words, like, misunderstanding and Hispanically. Radio-Television Correspondents Association dinner, Washington, D.C., March 29, 2001 You teach a child to read, and he or her will be able to pass a literacy test. Townsend, Tenn Feb. 21, 2001
Ive coined new words, like, misunderstanding and Hispanically.
Radio-Television Correspondents Association dinner,
Washington, D.C., March 29, 2001
You teach a child to read, and he or her will be able to pass a literacy test.
Townsend, Tenn Feb. 21, 2001
60 Coffee, Tea, or Should We Feel Your Pregnant Wifes Breasts Before Throwing You in a Cell at the Airport and Then Lying About Why We Put You There? - Nicholas Monahan December 21 2002 - http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig3/monahan1.html
Rarely is the question asked: is our children learning. - Florence, SC, Jan. 11, 2000 I think anybody who doesnt think Im smart enough to handle the job is underestimating. U.S.News & World Report, April 3, 2000
Rarely is the question asked: is our children learning. - Florence, SC, Jan. 11, 2000 I think anybody who doesnt think Im smart enough to handle the job is underestimating.
U.S.News & World Report,
April 3, 2000
Since the terrorist attacks, any questioning of Bushs mental capacity is viewed as subversive activity. If youre a politician, you must resign immediately. If youre a member of the public, you may be subject to an FBI investigation.
I n September 2002, German Justice Minister Herta Daeubler-Gmelin suggested that Bushs foreign policy was planned to distract from his domestic problems - a tactic used by Hitler. The media hijacked the comments and concocted headlines like German Minister says Bush is new Hitler. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, eager to childishly avenge German non-cooperation in the war with Iraq, responded by labeling the comments as outrageous and inexplicable. Despite a public apology, Daeubler-Gmelin was subsequently forced to resign from office.
As an aside, in a decidedly unsophisticated propaganda crusade, the Bush administration compared Saddam Hussein to Hitler. Hitlers projected 1,000-year Reich was to be built by invading countries and setting up a pan-European empire. Ask yourself, how many countries has Bush threatened to invade compared to Saddam Hussein?
Just a month after Daeubler-Gmelin resigned, Francoise Ducros, a top aide to Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien, referred to President Bush as a moron at the NATO summit in Prague. The comment was made to a radio reporter and instantly became front-page news. In stark contrast with their reaction to Daeubler-Gmelin, the White House trotted out Flesicher to dismiss the comment as something from someone who doesnt speak for the Canadian government. They wanted to keep Canada sweet because at that stage their unbridled support for a war on Iraq was on the verge of being secured. Ducros apologized but was forced to resign shortly after.
Just a day after Ducros quit, the British satirical cartoon show, 2DTV, were informed by the Broadcast Advertising Clearance Centre (BACC) that an ad for their Christmas video had been banned. The commercial featured a cackling Bush mistakenly putting the videotape in a toaster instead of a video player. The BACC ruled that the ad was offensive to Bushs intelligence. This, despite the fact that the program itself offends Bushs intelligence on a weekly basis. 2DTV produced a milder second version of the ad but this too was banned because it portrayed the President in a negative light. The realization that the man supposedly leading the free world in a war against global terrorism was in fact quite stupid is just too hot to handle.
The consequences of criticizing Bush were fully understood by these politicians and companies. However, at least they have a media platform on which to defend themselves. This saga takes on a more sinister tone when individuals are persecuted for daring to stand up to Bush.
A protest group called Turn Your Back on Bush experienced the full force of the new post-9/11 dictatorship after they discovered the President was to fulfill a speaking engagement at Ohio State University on June 14 2002. Lost in the muddy nostalgia of a pre-9/11 America, where groups had at least some rights to assemble, the protestors thought they could rekindle the days where a Bush appearance went hand in glove with a chorus of boos from a sizeable minority.
Not so, Richard Hollingsworth, Associate Vice President of Student Affairs, warned the group that he was aware of their plans and that any protest would entail ejections and arrests being made. He also threatened undergraduates that their diploma would be stripped if they were to so much as make a sound. This had a massive chilling effect and only a handful of students and others actually did turn their back on Bush at the ceremony. One was ejected by police and his arrest was probably only avoided because he was carrying a three-year old child.
This enabled the Washington Post to state, If there was a protest in the stadium, it was not visible to reporters. The Post could then concentrate on the sycophantic response of the audience to Bushs every sentence with glee.
Richard Humphreys, a resident of Portland Oregon, was sentenced to three years in jail after he made a joke about President Bush during Bushs March 2001 trip to Sioux Falls. The joke included the line I said God might speak to the world through a burning Bush, which was taken as meaning Humphreys wanted to douse Bush in flammable liquid and set him ablaze. A bartender overheard and immediately alerted the police to the activities of this dangerous terrorist. The actual arrest was obviously made before September 11 but the way that event changed the mindset of the American authorities no doubt contributed to the ridiculous three year prison term, which was handed out in June 2002. This story was originally reported by CNN, who mysteriously chose to remove the article from their website just a few weeks after its appearance.61
If you think that was an overreaction, just consider the case of a student at Bellbrook High School in Ohio. The unnamed teenager chose to wear a T-shirt with the words not my president superimposed over a picture of President Bush. When a crosshair was added to the design, two students came forward and complained to the school administrators. The Assistant Principal then made the decision to call the FBI because the high school kid could have been a terrorist planning to assassinate Bush.
Whats even more absurd is that the FBI actually treated the case with the utmost significance and the investigation was eventually turned over to the Secret Service!
61 Burning Bush comment draws prison term CNN June 12 2002 available at http://www.prisonplanet.com/news_alert_120602_illegalbush.html
These are the real threats to America not wide-open borders or Muslim fanatics - but high school children with political T-shirts. The authorities seem really keen on protecting us from terrorism, dont they? In a gut-wrenching climax to the story, the two kids who snitched on the teenage terrorist were praised as heroes. The Assistant Principal said they had complied with the demand of the government - that citizens stand together with Homeland Security and keep an eye out for potential terrorist activity, for this, he was proud of them.
The liberties of Americans, as enshrined in the Constitution and Bill of Rights, were erected on the foundation of logic that the citizenry has to watch its government like a hawk. Any government that is allowed to roam freely without checks and balances becomes tyrannical. History has proven this over and over again. In the new America, the government watches the citizens and in turn the citizens are told to watch each other. Criticism of the government is outlawed and anyone that does so is either ridiculed or thrown in jail. If America is to be rescued from being the home base of a global fascist empire, we need put our foot down. We need to criticize the government more than ever.
Then again, I might just be a terrorist and you should really call the FBI for the good of the Fatherland.
I Love Big Brother!
The omnipotent tracking grid and emerging cashless society we see being pushed by the elite is not simply an agenda to differentiate the slaves from the slave masters. While its true that our overlords want us to take on the role of dogs on leashes, a more concentrated effort is at work.
Unlike the capital and goods industries, which are wholly predictable and controlled, the service or household industry is extremely random because it is reliant on patterns of human behavior. Therefore, to harness this the elite need to make human behavior predictable by intensely studying consumer trends. Recall that the elevated capstone on the Illuminati pyramid stands for a mission that is incomplete. From the credit card to the barcode to the fingerprint smart card to the implantable microchip. When this cycle is finished, the state wont just know what you purchase, they will decide on whether you purchase at all. This is the essence of the cashless society.
Patterns of human behavior and consumption need to be catalogued and indexed before the spectrum of economic and societal control can be reached. This requires the precise dissection of all forms of privacy for the purpose of microanalysis. To us, this translates as complete dehumanization. CCTV, biometrics, facial recognition software (remember Orwells Face-crime?), thumb scans for drivers licenses, thumb scans for food. In addition, normality of behavior needs to be zealously solidified in the minds of the public.
Consequently, anyone who deviates from these imposed norms will stand out. Concurrently, the elite nurture and direct a tattletale mentality (federalized Neighborhood Watch for example), which provides a plethora of information on... you guessed it, human behavior. Exactly what they need.
The end game is the enforced implantable microchip. The first unwitting volunteers have already been chipped.62 As we know, anything that gives the government more power is likely to become mandatory. Legally, the income tax and social security are still voluntary. However, anyone who sensibly and constitutionally refuses to participate in the scam is considered a criminal. How long before anybody who refuses the microchip is a criminal? Itll only take a few more examples of reality control to establish this climate.
I can see the commercials now - TAKE THE CHIP OR YOURE WITH AL-QAEDA! - people are highly suggestible in times of manufactured fear.
62 Boy gets microchip under his skin BBC July 11 2002 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/sci_tech/newsid_2121000/2121002.stm
Back to Contents
