# Order Out of Chaos - 06

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/order_chaos/order_chaos06.htm

Chapter 6 Treason Beneath a Clear Blue Sky
Why was Standard Operating Procedure blatantly ignored for just one day in 2001? Why were none of the planes intercepted?
Andrews Air Force Base is only ten miles from the Pentagon. Air defense around Washington is provided mainly by fighter planes from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland near the District of Columbia border. The D.C. Air National Guard is also based there and equipped with F-16 fighter planes.
In a blatant reversal of Standard Operating Procedure, the Air Force, via willful negligence, is given stand down orders not to intercept Flight 77, which will subsequently hit the Pentagon.
Flight 77 is known by NORAD to have been hijacked by 8:50am. Yet it is a full 48 minutes until any fighters are scrambled, as two leave Langley AFB just two minutes before Flight 77 hits the Pentagon at 9:40am.
Andrews AFB had two combat ready squadrons that would have intercepted Flight 77 had they been allowed to leave upon confirmation of its hijacking. It is Standard Operating Procedure to intercept all air traffic that fails to respond to radio calls immediately. This was the case with the golfer Payne Stewarts chartered Lear Jet that crashed in October 1999. F-16 Fighters (without the need of a Presidential mandate) had intercepted the aircraft within 21 minutes.
This represents willful coordinated negligence between the FAA, NORAD, the Pentagon (who also track all air traffic) and President Bush, who as this was all unfolding, was reading a book about a pet goat to a group of schoolchildren.
Perplexing Connections
One of the biggest smoking guns to indicate that the terrorist attack was an inside job is the CIAs direct connection with the hijackers via Pakistan ISI Director General Mahmoud Ahmad. General Mahmoud Ahmad instructed Ahmad Umar Sheikh to hotwire $100,000 to the 9/11 lead hijacker, Mohammad Atta. On September 11th, Ahmad was a guest of former clandestine CIA officer and CFR member Rep. Porter Goss and Skull and Bones/CFR member Senator Bob Graham.
Since September 4th, he had met with top brass at the CIA, the Pentagon and the White House, including Colin Powell, Richard Armitage, Joseph Biden and George Tenet.
Condoleezza Rice lied in a May 16th 2002 press conference when she claimed ignorance of Ahmads visit and the $100,000 transfer. Ahmad had already resigned from the ISI and the FBI had confirmed the circumstances behind this. Rice stated, I have not seen that report, and he was certainly not meeting with me.
What was the money man behind the terrorists doing in the halls of the US government before, during and after 9/11? This is just one example of the firm alliance running through the CIA, which in turn controls the ISI, which in turn controls Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda.
The Incredible 9/11 Evidence Weve All Been Overlooking
In trying to piece together what really happened on September 11, a lot of work has been done - much of it useful and interesting - into those hijacked flights for which the publicly available evidence is sketchy and contradictory. There are web sites for instance wholly dedicated to investigating the true fate of Flight 93 and others that attempt to get a clearer idea of what really happened at the Pentagon. Both these incidents however are characterized by a pronounced absence of substantive material evidence and it is this, I suppose, that raises our suspicions and curiosity.
There is one flight however that has received insufficient attention and this is American Airlines Flight 11, the plane that allegedly crashed into WTC 1, the north tower. It was the first of the terrorist attacks that day. It has been a big mistake not to subject this flight to the same kind of scrutiny as the others because, unlike the others, a very good and important piece of documentary evidence of this flight exists in the public domain. This is the so-called Firemans Video and we really havent looked at it closely enough. It really does deserve a second look.
The story of the Firemans Video is well known. Two French filmmakers, the Naudet Brothers, were in New York on September 11 making a documentary about the New York Fire Service. The footage shows that, while filming in Canal Street, firemen and crew are distracted by a plane flying low overhead. The camera operator instinctively turns his camera towards the north tower and, for little more than a second or so, we get a clear view of the plane crashing into the north tower. It is a precious, priceless second. It is the one-second of video that really makes the sinister Bush junta nervous. It really gives them nightmares.
They really didnt want a professional cameraman to catch that moment on broadcast-quality tape.
FIG 6.1
[CAPTION: The Naudet Brothers video of the first plane crashing into the WTC.]
This photo from the Naudet Brothers classic video shows the aircraft separating with the White Jet flying over the tower
If youve got it on tape (see below video) I strongly suggest you take another look at it, with the pause and frame-forward buttons at the ready.
When seen at full speed, you might first of all think that there isnt a great deal to see. Theres half a second or so when we see the plane flying through the air then it smashes into the tower, creating an explosion and leaving a great gash across the building. Notice though that immediately before it hits the building the plane emits a brief, bright flash. Notice too that the scar it leaves on the building is rather larger than seems appropriate for the size of the aircraft.
Now pause the sequence at the beginning and advance it frame by frame. Firstly, look at the plane. Does that look like a Boeing jet to you? Is its wingspan wide enough? Does it have engines attached to its wings? These however are but minor details compared with what comes next. Watch carefully what happens as the plane approaches and crashes into the tower. I leave you to come to your own conclusions about what you see (watch it over and over again, backwards and forwards), but Ill tell you what I see.
Immediately before the plane strikes it fires a missile that blows a hole in the buildings facade. This is the cause of that brief flash. The plane then begins to disappear neatly into this hole, leaving no wing impressions. A plane disappearing into a hole? Where have I heard that before; wasnt there something about a plane at the Pentagon? Just before it disappears however it fires two more missiles from somewhere near its tail. One goes to the left, one to the right (and up a bit) and it is the blast holes from these three separate missiles that form the great gash across the building. Theres more.
Keep an eye on the adjacent east side of the building, which is also visible. See how, a few frames into the explosion, a white jet of smoke erupts out of the east side at the same level as the plane. The jet comes straight out of the wall at right angles to it, not angled in accordance with the trajectory of the plane. Also its just white smoke and dust, no orange flames or anything like that. It is clearly a bomb going off, creating the gash that appears on the east wall. I know what I am describing sounds incredible.
I suggest only that you look at the footage yourself (far below video) and come to your own conclusions about what you see.
The plane that hit the north tower was not American Airlines Flight 11.
It was not a Boeing 757. It was a bespoke military plane carrying three missiles that created the impression of a plane crash without leaving any wreckage. In order for it precisely to strike the correct part of the tower (in line with the bomb already planted in the east wall) it must have been flown remotely using cruise navigation. I believe a similar plane was used to strike the Pentagon.
It is instructive to compare the footage of the first crash (Flight 11) with the second one (Flight 175) of which there is a great deal of footage. Now: both Flight 11 and 175 were 767s. They were both flying from Boston to the West coast and they had both been in the air for around 45 minutes before they crashed so they should have had roughly the same amount of fuel on board. Compare the two crashes. Flight 11 is a rather modest explosion which clears soon and there isnt much flame. What flame there is reddish. The collision of Flight 175 on the other hand produces a vast yellow fireball that dominates Manhattan and the resultant fire is pretty intense.
I think what we can deduce from this is that Flight 11 had very little fuel on board (the missiles and bomb cause the principal explosion) while Flight 175 was probably full of fuel, thus giving a more spectacular show for the media that had by then arrived. Also Flight 175 is clearly not a military plane but a regular 767. It has no missiles and nor is it flown using cruise navigation because the pilot almost misses the building and has to swerve in at the last second. A cruise-controlled craft would not do this.
The Conspiracy Theorists have got it dead right this time. The true Flights 11, 175, 77 and 93 were indeed substituted with other planes when the transponders were switched off. Someone hijacked the hijackers to make sure the job was done properly. The technology enabling interception of aircraft via remote control from the ground has existed for years, General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. developed a remote-controlled reconnaissance plane for the Air Force called Predator, which flew in Bosnia during the conflict there. Used by the military since 1994, it can be landed by pilots linked by satellite using controls on the ground or ordering an onboard computer to do the job.1
A top panel of experienced civilian and military pilots (conspiracy theorists) under the chairmanship of Colonel Donn de Grand met for an exhaustive 72-hour conference in Portugal. The committee was endorsed by Dr. Paul Roberts, former Assistant Secretary of the US Treasury, and presently Senior Research Fellow at Stamford University.
They concluded that the flight crews of the four passenger airliners, involved in the September 11th tragedy, had no control over their aircraft, In a detailed press communiqué the inquiry stated:
The so-called terrorist attack was in fact a superbly executed military operation carried out against the USA, requiring the utmost professional military skill in command, communications and control. It was flawless in timing, in the choice of selected aircraft to be used as guided missiles and in the coordinated delivery of those missiles to their pre-selected targets.2
1 Landing by remote control doesnt quite fly with pilots Jeff Long Chicago Tribune September 28 2001 - http://www.chicagotribune.com/technology/chi-0109280208sep28.story
2 September 11 - US Government accused The News (Portugal) August 3 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/september_11_us_government_accused.htm
FIG 6.2
[CAPTION: Colonel Donn de Grands expert commission concluded that an attack of such professional military precision
could not possibly have been carried out by amateur hijackers, many of which couldnt even fly small private planes.]
In evidence given to the enquiry, Captain Kent Hill (retd.) of the US Air Force, and friend of Chic Burlingame, the pilot of the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, stated that the US had on several occasions flown an unmanned aircraft, similar in size to a Boeing 737, across the Pacific from Edwards Air Force base in California to South Australia.
According to Hill it had flown on a pre-programmed flight path under the control of a pilot in an outside station. The panel questioned why none of the pilots punched in the four-digit code into the flight transponder to alert ground control that a hijacking had taken place.
Colonel Donn de Grand summarized by saying that the attack was carried out by the U.S. government to deceive its people into backing a crusade against Muslims and an eventual war against Iraq. This major report by respected experts received absolutely no attention in the States or Britain. Why? Where is the governments rebuttal? Where is their evidence to prove it was carried out by Al-Qaeda?
They havent presented any.
The Firemans Video is Bushs true smoking gun
WTC1 North Tower Plane Impact on 9/11 - Naudet
It is in the public domain and it is even available on DVD.
It is probably sitting in the video shelves of thousands and thousands of homes across the world. It is vitally important that the American people see this video frame by frame so they can make their own minds up about what really happened on September 11.
There has been a silent coup in America but few have noticed yet. The Bush Administration is clearly very sinister indeed and God only knows what it has in store for us next. There is a clue though in the things of which it accuses Saddam Hussein: building and using weapons of mass destruction (nuclear and biological) and killing his own people.
Bush is of course describing himself. We have entered the Age of the Conjurer and it is going to be a tricky time. The 9-11 stunt was a huge magic trick and we all bought it at first. Magicians can be very convincing. You have to look very hard to see the trick and not be fooled. On this occasion slow motion exposes the sleight of hand, but remember how the magician works: he can make almost anything seem real if he can make his audience look in the wrong place at crucial moments.
Only the American people can now stop the imminent slaughter and the imposition of a global fascist police state, but they are currently sleepwalking into their own enslavement. It may already be too late. But maybe if enough Americans get out their videos and their remote controls (pardon the pun) and take a long hard look at that remarkable footage of that plane hitting the north tower, then an armed and outraged middle America might just pull it off. After trawling through 50+ pages of September 11 eyewitness accounts from the New York Times, I could not find a single one from onlookers on the ground or in either tower, who stated that the object that hit the north tower was a large commercial airliner.
However, lets not get carried away. The issue at hand is the suspicious way the object hit the tower and the question of anomalies that would indicate multiple use of missiles. The object could very well be what it is reported as being, American Airlines Flight 11. Or is it?
Public Action report,
The second clue comes from the first New York eyewitness on NBC. She had no question about what she saw. You could hear it in her voice. If she was the states witness, the defense team would have their heads between their knees before she stopped talking.
What did she say?
She heard an airplane coming in low and looked up. She saw a small private jet, and watched it fly into the first WTC tower, the North tower. She was certain in her descriptionmost people know the difference between a big round-nose commercial jet and a smaller plane.3
Furthermore,
In his testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on October 25, 2001, NORAD commander Ralph Eberhart said of the first September 11 report, We were told it was a light commuter airplane. It didnt look like that (damage) was caused by a light commuter airplane.4
In his testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on October 25, 2001, NORAD commander Ralph Eberhart said of the first September 11 report,
We were told it was a light commuter airplane. It didnt look like that (damage) was caused by a light commuter airplane.4
As is now well known, at least eight of the September 11 suicide hijackers" either died before the event or are actually still alive. This isnt some kind of Internet conspiracy theory; its been reported in mainstream media across the world. Furthermore, four of the five named Flight 11 hijackers are still alive and could not have been on the plane that hit the north tower. Beside the fact that according to their flight school instructors they could barely fly a Cessna, never mind a Boeing 767.
Mohammed Atta, the son of a successful lawyer, grew up in a middle-class Cairo neighborhood. Not only did he have a good education, but so did his two sisters - one a university lecturer, the other a doctor. His father drives a Mercedes, and the family has a seaside home. Hardly the profile of a fundamentalist with an overbearing grudge against wealth and capitalism.
Attas father, again to emphasize, a well respected lawyer and not a crackpot, is in the media every other month telling of how his son is still alive and had nothing to do with September 11,
He is hiding in a secret place so as not to be murdered by the US secret services, Mohammed el-Amir Atta, 66, told the German newspaper Bild am Sonntag. As I saw the picture of my son, he said, I knew that he hadnt done it. My son called me the day after the attacks on September 12 at around midday. We spoke for two minutes about this and that.5
3 Flight Of The Bumble Planes Public Action March 10 2002 - http://www.public-action.com/911/bumble.html
4 Senate Armed Services Committee Holds Hearing on Role of Defense Department in Homeland Security Congressional Hearings October 25 2001 - http://www.ngaus.org/newsroom/HomelandDefenseTranscript.doc
5 Father insists alleged leader is still alive Kate Connolly London Guardian September 2 2002 - http://www.guardian.co.uk/september11/oneyearon/story/0,12361,784541,00.html
The BBC reported,
Saudi Arabian pilot Waleed Al Shehri was one of five men that the FBI said had deliberately crashed American Airlines flight 11 into the World Trade Centre on 11 September. His photograph was released, and has since appeared in newspapers and on television around the world. Now he is protesting his innocence from Casablanca, Morocco.
He told journalists there that he had nothing to do with the attacks on New York and Washington, and had been in Morocco when they happened. He has contacted both the Saudi and American authorities, according to Saudi press reports.
He acknowledges that he attended flight training school at Dayton Beach in the United States, and is indeed the same Waleed Al Shehri to whom the FBI has been referring. But, he says, he left the United States in September last year, became a pilot with Saudi Arabian airlines and is currently on a further training course in Morocco.6
FIG 6.3
[CAPTION: BBC reports on the suicide hijackers that are still alive]
Wail M. Al-Shehri is the son of a Saudi diplomat in Bombay. Gaafar Allagany, head of the Saudi Embassys information center, told the L.A. Times back in late September 2001 that I personally talked to both father and son today.7 There are discrepancies concerning the identity of Abdulaziz Al-Omari. It seems there are two of him, either of which could have been on board AA Flight 11. However, both are still alive.
Mr. Al-Omari, a pilot with Saudi Airlines, walked into the US embassy in Jeddah to demand why he was being reported as a dead hijacker in the American media.
The London Independent also investigated the case and came to the same conclusion, that there were two Al-Omaris, both of whom were alive and shocked at being named as 9/11 hijackers. Abdulaziz Al-Omari number two is an electrical engineer, also based in Saudi Arabia. The New York Times reported, Al-Omari has since been found in Saudi Arabia and is apparently cleared in the case.
Al-Omari number two himself, in a September 23 London Telegraph article, stated,
I couldnt believe it when the FBI put me on their list. They gave my name and my date of birth, but I am not a suicide bomber. I am here. I am alive. I have no idea how to fly a plane. I had nothing to do with this.8
6 Hijack suspects alive and well BBC September 23 2001 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/1559151.stm 7 FBI Chief Raises New Doubts Over Hijackers Identities Lisa Getter L.A. Times September 21 2001 - http://www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/nation/la-092101probe.story
8 Revealed: the men with stolen identities David Harrison London Telegraph September 23 2001 - http://www.portal.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2001/09/23/widen23.xml
The only Flight 11 hijacker who hasnt been found alive is Satam M. A. Al Suqami. His passport was found in the rubble at ground zero after the attacks, if you can even entertain such a preposterous notion! Still, he must have been a pretty fast worker to have overpowered a staff of nine flight attendants, two pilots and eighty-one passengers, before guiding the plane into the WTC north tower with expert precision.
From this evidence it is by no means a leap of the imagination to suggest that Flight 11, if it was Flight 11, was hijacked not by Muslim terrorists but by Global Hawk remote control technology. The plane was loaded beforehand with advanced laser missiles, which were fired just before it entered the building. This was to ensure the building would later collapse, destroying the evidence. Such advanced weaponry would explain early reports attributing the unusually low death toll to victims being vaporized, therefore leaving no trace of their remains.
The north tower collapsed after the south tower, even though it was hit first. Using the conventional explanation of the towers collapse, namely oh, you see, the towers got really hot and, erm, melted, we would expect that the first tower to be hit would also be the first one to collapse. This was not the case. The south tower collapsed first because it was clearly filled to the brim with shape charger bombs that detonated just before, and during its collapse.
The untold story of Flight 11 is merely another drop in the ocean of evidence confirming the highest levels of the US government not only had prior knowledge of September 11 but actually engineered the attacks. As more smoking guns surface, it becomes clear that, on at least two of the four flights hijacked that day, there were no suicide hijackers at all.
What Brought the Towers Down?
Many researchers have asked the basic question why did the towers collapse and why did they collapse so quickly? No building had ever collapsed before from fire damage. Why was there no satisfactory investigation of the World Trade Center rubble? Why was it shipped off to China within weeks of the collapse? The handling of the World Trade Center rubble almost mirrors that of the Oklahoma City Alfred P. Murrah building.
After eyewitnesses reported several explosions and original newscasts detailed the recovery of second and third explosive devices, the government declared that there was just one bomb and the remains of the building were professionally demolished by Controlled Demolitions Inc., the same company that was first on the scene to cart away the WTC rubble. Debris of the federal building was then carted off to a private landfill and guarded 24 hours a day by Wackenhut private security. Nothing to hide there then, eh?
The FEMA team that investigated why the towers collapsed was headed by Dr. W. Gene Corley, the same individual the government called upon to whitewash the Waco fire enquiry and the Oklahoma City bombing.
Fire Engineering, the oldest firefighting magazine in the world, called the World Trade Center investigation a half-baked farce and begged that steel from the site be preserved. The piece by Bill Manning, editor of the 125-year-old monthly that frequently publishes technical studies of major fires, also says the steel from the site should be preserved so investigators can examine what caused the collapse.
Did they throw away the locked doors from the Triangle Shirtwaist fire? Did they throw away the gas can used at the Happy Land social club fire? ... Thats what theyre doing at the World Trade Center, the editorial says. The destruction and removal of evidence must stop immediately.9
Ben Fountain, a financial analyst who worked on the 47th floor of the south tower, told People Magazine that there had been several evacuations of the WTC towers in the weeks before September 11. This was the perfect opportunity for bombs to be placed and later detonated via remote control.
Van Romero, vice president for research at New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, is a former director of the Energetic Materials Research and Testing Center at Tech, which studies explosive materials and the effects of explosions on buildings, aircraft and other structures. Hours after the collapse of the twin towers, Romero stated that the event resembled a professional demolition using bombs placed at strategic points within the building.
The collapse of the buildings appears too methodical to be a chance result of airplanes colliding with the structures, said Van Romero, vice president for research at New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology.
My opinion is, based on the videotapes, that after the airplanes hit the World Trade Center there were some explosive devices inside the buildings that caused the towers to collapse, Romero said.10
Romero went on to point out that many terrorist attacks often feature a second, less noticeable but more deadly event that does most of the damage. The initial event, in this case the shocking scene of planes slamming into buildings, is in essence a diversionary tactic.
In an amazing turnaround, Romero reversed his position just ten days later and told journalists that the jet fuel had caused the collapse. This was after official sources and television specials pounded on the jet fuel theory until it became accepted fact.
9 Firefighter Mag Raps 9/11 Probe New York Daily News January 4 2002 available at http://www.cam.net.uk/home/Nimmann/peace/explosions.htm
10 Explosives Planted In Towers, N.M. Tech Expert Says - Olivier Uyttebrouck Albuquerque Journal September 11 2001 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/Fire_Not_Extra_Explosives_Doomed_Buildings_Expert_Says.htm
Conspiracy theorists have seized on Romeros comments as evidence for their argument that someone else, possibly the U.S. government, was behind the attack on the Trade Center. Romero said he has been bombarded with electronic mail from the conspiracy theorists. Im very upset about that, he said. Im not trying to say anything did or didnt happen.11 The actual engineers that designed the twin towers were baffled that an impact from a 747 could have caused the total failure of the structures. Like Romero, some changed their minds after the appropriate pressure was applied from authorities, A lead engineer who designed the World Trade Center Towers expressed shock that the towers collapsed after being hit by passenger jets.
I designed it for a 707 to hit it, Lee Robertson, the projects structural engineer said. The Boeing 707 has a fuel capacity of more than 23,000 gallons, comparable to the 767s 23,980-gallon fuel capacity.
Another architect of the WTC, Aaron Swirski, lives in Israel and spoke to Jerusalem Post Radio after the attack: It was designed around that eventuality to survive this kind of attack, he said.
Hyman Brown, a University of Colorado civil engineering professor and the World Trade Centers construction manager, watched in confusion as the towers came down. It was over-designed to withstand almost anything including hurricanes, high winds, bombings and an airplane hitting it, he said.12
Another conspiracy theorist who reported bombs in the twin towers was Louie Cacchioli, a 51-year-old firefighter assigned to Engine 47 in Harlem with over twenty years experience. Cacchioli was part of the first rescue team that entered the south tower after Flight 175 struck. He told People Magazine,
I was taking firefighters up in the elevator to the 24th floor to get in position to evacuate workers. On the last trip up a bomb went off. We think there was bombs set in the building.13
Cacchioli has privately told journalists that he was threatened to keep quiet and now refuses to do any interviews.
Kim White had an office on the 80th floor of WTC 1. She reported,
We got down as far as the 74th floor, and someone there pulled us into their office. They had a TV on, and we saw that a plane had crashed into the building. Then there was another explosion, so we left again by the stairwell.14
11 Fire, Not Extra Explosives, Doomed Buildings, Expert Says John Fleck - Albuquerque Journal September 21 2001- available at http://propagandamatrix.com/Fire_Not_Extra_Explosives_Doomed_Buildings_Expert_Says.htm
12 Eyewitness Reports Persist Of Bombs At WTC Collapse Christopher Bollyn American Free Press December 2 2001 - http://www.rense.com/general17/eyewitnessreportspersist.htm 13 United in Courage People Magazine September 12 2001 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/louie_cacchioli.htm
14 United in Courage People Magazine September 12 2001 -http://people.aol.com/people/special/0,11859,174592-2,00.html
Another eyewitness on the scene was Neil deGrasse Tyson. He is Director of the Hayden Planetarium of the American Museum of Natural History, which is located in New York City. He is also Vice President of The Planetary Society.
Tysons apartment was only six blocks from the WTC complex and he recorded the unfolding events on his camcorder. Tyson states in his eyewitness account, As more and more and more and more and more emergency vehicles descended on the World Trade Center, I hear a second explosion in WTC 2, then a loud, low-frequency rumble that precipitates the unthinkablea collapse of all the floors above the point of explosion. First the top surface, containing the helipad, tips sideways in full view. Then the upper floors fall straight down in a demolition-style implosion, taking all lower floors with it, even those below the point of the explosion.15
Nadine Keller was yet another person who heard explosions just before the towers collapsed.
There was smoke everywhere. I heard the bomb and saw both buildings crumble like biscuits, she told BBC News.16
Steve Evans was a BBC employee and was at the base of the south tower when it was hit,
There was an explosionI didnt think it was an explosionbut the base of the building shook. I felt it shake . . . then when we were outside, the second explosion happened and then there was a series of explosions. . . . We can only wonder at the kind of damagethe kind of human damagewhich was caused by those explosionsthose series of explosions, he said.17
Claims of ongoing investigations and national security have been used to shut the lid on evidence relating to firefighter dispatch tapes and aircraft black boxes. Even family members of the victims were made to wait a year or more to hear the final moments of their loved ones. How can what firefighters said to each other on September 11 damage the national security of the country?
In November 2002, one of the dispatch tapes was finally released to the New York Times. This transcript is from firefighters making their way up the south tower just minutes before it collapses,
Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven to Ladder 15.15 Irons.Ladder 15: Fifteen to 15 Roof and Irons.Battalion Six Chief: Battalion Six to command post.9:52 a.m.Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven to Battalion Seven Alpha. Freddie, come on over. Freddie, come on over by us.Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven ... Ladder 15, weve got two isolated pockets of fire. We should be able to knock it down with two lines. Radio that, 78th floor numerous 10-45 Code Ones.Ladder 15: What stair are you in, Orio?Battalion Seven Aide: Seven Alpha to lobby command post.Ladder Fifteen: Fifteen to Battalion Seven.Battalion Seven Chief: ... Ladder 15.Ladder 15: Chief, what stair you in?Battalion Seven Chief: South stairway Adam, South Tower.Ladder 15: Floor 78?Battalion Seven Chief: Ten-four, numerous civilians, we gonna need two engines up here.Ladder 15: Alright ten-four, were on our way.18
Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven to Ladder 15.15 Irons.Ladder 15: Fifteen to 15 Roof and Irons.Battalion Six Chief: Battalion Six to command post.9:52 a.m.Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven to Battalion Seven Alpha.
Freddie, come on over. Freddie, come on over by us.Battalion Seven Chief: Battalion Seven ... Ladder 15, weve got two isolated pockets of fire. We should be able to knock it down with two lines. Radio that, 78th floor numerous 10-45 Code Ones.Ladder 15: What stair are you in, Orio?Battalion Seven Aide: Seven Alpha to lobby command post.Ladder Fifteen: Fifteen to Battalion Seven.Battalion Seven Chief: ... Ladder 15.Ladder 15: Chief, what stair you in?Battalion Seven Chief: South stairway Adam, South Tower.Ladder 15: Floor 78?Battalion Seven Chief: Ten-four, numerous civilians, we gonna need two engines up here.Ladder 15: Alright ten-four, were on our way.18
15 An Eye-Witness Account of the World Trade Center Attacks from Neil deGrasse Tyson The Planetary Society September 12 2001 - http://www.planetary.org/html/society/advisors/sept11account.html 16 Eyewitnesses tell of horror BBC September 11 2001 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/1537500.stm 17 Ibid
18 You can listen to the audio of this transcript at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/wtc_tape.mp3
How can we reconcile claims of searing fires that melted steel with the words, weve got two isolated pockets of fire. We should be able to knock it down with two lines,? These are not theories, they are the words of the brave firefighters actually inside the buildings minutes before they collapsed.
Furthermore, even if we accept the notion that jet fuel caused the collapse of the north and south towers, how do we explain the perfect implosion of WTC Building 7, which wasnt even hit by anything save a small amount of flying debris? The building collapsed at 5:25pm, seven hours after the north tower collapsed. Photographs of the building taken at 3pm show two small pockets of fire on the 7th and 12th floors. There was little smoke and rescue vehicles and onlookers stand just across the road there was no indication whatsoever and no reason for the subsequent collapse.
Some suggest diesel fuel and emergency generators inside the building caught fire but FEMA admitted in their own report that recovered diesel tanks remained intact after the collapse.
FIG 6.6
[CAPTION: Building 7 just hours before its demolition-like collapse
in the shadow of the building across the street we can see just two small fires on the 7th and 12th floors]
Just moments after Flight 175 struck the south tower, CNN captured footage of a huge plume of smoke rising from the base of WTC building 6 the U.S. Customs building. Luckily by this time all the employees had evacuated but the building suffered intense fires and was left with a crater down its center, but it didnt collapse, CNNs Public Affairs Department confirmed that the explosion shown in the footage occurred immediately after the second plane had crashed into the South Tower. When asked if the footage was taken at 9:04 a.m., the CNN archivist said thats correct.
When asked if CNN could offer any explanation about what might have caused the blast that soared higher than the 47-story WTC 7 in the foreground, the archivist said: We cant figure it out.19 Concrete proof that something other than jet fuel was responsible for the destruction of the twin towers came when pools of molten steel were discovered in the basement of the towers weeks after their collapse, Although the energy source for these incredibly hot areas has yet to be explained, New York seismometers recorded huge bursts of energy, which caused unexplained seismic spikes at the beginning of each collapse.
These spikes suggest that massive underground explosions may have literally knocked the towers off their foundations, causing them to collapse.
In the basements of the collapsed towers, where the 47 central support columns connected with the bedrock, hot spots of literally molten steel were discovered more than a month after the collapse. Such persistent and intense residual heat, 70 feet below the surface, in an oxygen starved environment, could explain how these crucial structural supports failed.20 Columbia Universitys Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory is 21 miles north of the WTC site. Seismographs recorded a 2.1 magnitude earthquake during the 10-second collapse of the South Tower at 9:59:04 and a 2.3 quake during the 8-second collapse of the North Tower at 10:28:31.
Immediately before the collapse of the two towers, identical seismic spikes occurred which dwarfed the actual energy jolt registered by the falling of the debris, These unexplained spikes in the seismic data lend credence to the theory that massive explosions at the base of the towers caused the collapses. A sharp spike of short duration is how seismologist Thorne Lay of University of California at Santa Cruz told AFP an underground nuclear explosion appears on a seismograph. The two unexplained spikes are more than 20 times the amplitude of the other seismic waves associated with the collapses and occurred in the East-West seismic recording as the buildings began to fall.
19 Unexplained 9-11 Explosion at WTC Complex Christopher Bollyn American Free Press July 14 2002 -http://www.americanfreepress.net/07_14_02/Unexplained_9-11_/unexplained_9-11_.html
20 NEW SEISMIC DATA REFUTES OFFICIAL EXPLANATION Christopher Bollyn American Free Press September 3 2002 - http://www.americanfreepress.net/09_03_02/NEW_SEISMIC_/new_seismic_.html
21 Ibid
Experts cannot explain why the seismic waves peaked before the towers actually hit the ground.21 The notion that advanced laser/particle beam weaponry was used to bring down the towers correlates with footage of the radio antenna on the north tower literally disintegrating into thin air as the building begins to collapse. The fact that over half of the victims bodies were never recovered because they evaporated is also consistent with this explanation.
We will probably never find out why the towers collapsed because the government has clamped down on every piece of evidence under national security and the rest has been declared destroyed or missing. The thousands of families who simply seek closure in finding out what happened to their loved ones continue to be insulted by the authorities and offered pitiful sums of money to stop asking questions. This should come as no surprise in light of previous events.
The criminals are merely trying to cover their tracks.
Back to Contents
Back to The 9/11 Events
