# Order Out of Chaos - 08

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/order_chaos/order_chaos08.htm

Chapter 8 The Pakistan/India Conflict: Familiar Faces and Nuclear
Holocaust
The ongoing tensions between Pakistan and India over the disputed border of Kashmir encapsulate the most volatile geopolitical sector of the world, dwarfing even the Israel-Palestine conflict in terms of potential explosiveness. Both India and Pakistan are nuclear armed.
By late 2002 it was generally considered that disquiet between the two countries had dramatically calmed, a naïve misconception when in hindsight, the same consensus prevailed at the end of 2001. It was at that point that terrorists stormed the Indian parliament in Delhi, killing twelve people and catapulting India and Pakistan to the brink of nuclear war. One single act of large-scale terrorism will re-fuel the possibility of imminent conflict. As I will document, the likelihood of that happening is immense.
I s there a hidden hand that seeks to bring nuclear war to the region and if so for what purpose? How does this relate to the New World Order and can the conflict be classified as another example of the Hegelian dialectic, the order out of chaos scenario? Who benefits and where is the evidence?
Before we answer these questions lets take a brief look at the history of the region.
A Legacy of Instability
The mountainous region of Kashmir has been a flashpoint between India and Pakistan for more than 50 years. The territory has witnessed a number of violent incidents recently against the background of continuing tension between India and Pakistan. Forces from both countries deployed along the frontline are regularly shelling each other, causing deaths and injuries to civilians in the area. There are fears that even a minor incident along the border could trigger a conflagration between the two nuclear-capable powers, and both President Musharraf and Prime Minister Vajpayee are under considerable domestic pressure not to back down.
The territory of Kashmir was hotly contested even before India and Pakistan won their independence from Britain in August 1947. Under the partition plan provided by the Indian Independence Act of 1947, Kashmir was free to accede to India or Pakistan. The Maharaja, Hari Singh, wanted to stay independent but eventually decided to accede to India, signing over key powers to the Indian Government - in return for military aid and a promised referendum. Since then, the territory has been the flashpoint for two of the three India-Pakistan wars: the first in 1947-8, the second in 1965.
In 1999, India fought a brief but bitter conflict with Pakistani-backed forces who had infiltrated Indian-controlled territory in the Kargil area.
In addition to the rival claims of Delhi and Islamabad to the territory, there has been a growing and often violent separatist movement fighting against Indian rule in Kashmir since 1989. Islamabad says Kashmir should have become part of Pakistan in 1947, because Muslims are in the majority in the region. Pakistan also argues that Kashmiris should be allowed to vote in a referendum on their future, following numerous UN resolutions on the issue. Delhi, however, does not want international debate on the issue, arguing that the Simla Agreement of 1972 provided for a resolution through bilateral talks. India points to the Instrument of Accession signed in October 1947 by the Maharaja, Hari Singh.
Both India and Pakistan reject the so-called third option of Kashmiri independence.
A demarcation line was originally established in January 1949 as a ceasefire line, following the end of the first Kashmir war. In July 1972, after a second conflict, the Line of Control (LoC) was re-established under the terms of the Simla Agreement, with minor variations on the earlier boundary. The LoC passes through a mountainous region about 5,000 meters high. The conditions are so extreme that the bitter cold claims more lives than the sporadic military skirmishes. North of the LoC, the rival forces have been entrenched on the Siachen glacier (more than 6,000 meters high) since 1984 - the highest battlefield on earth.
The LoC divides Kashmir on an almost two-to-one basis: Indian-administered Kashmir to the east and south (population about nine million), which falls into the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir; and Pakistani-administered Kashmir to the north and west (population about three million), which is labeled by Pakistan as Azad (Free) Kashmir. China also controls a small portion of Kashmir.
Religion is an important aspect of the dispute. Partition in 1947 gave Indias Muslims a state of their own: Pakistan. So a common faith underpins Pakistans claims to Kashmir, where many areas are Muslim-dominated. The population of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir is over 60% Muslim, making it the only state within India where Muslims are in the majority.
There are several groups pursuing the rival claims to Kashmir. Not all are armed, but since Muslim insurgency began in 1989, the number of armed separatists has grown from hundreds to thousands. The most prominent are the pro-Pakistani Hizbul Mujahideen. Islamabad denies providing them and others with logistical and material support. The Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) was the largest pro-independence group, but its influence is thought to have waned. Other groups have joined under the umbrella of the All-Party Hurriyat (Freedom) Conference, which campaigns peacefully for an end to Indias presence in Kashmir.
Indian forces announced a unilateral ceasefire against militant groups in November 2000, but violence continued. Attempts to get talks going between the government and the separatist parties have foundered over separatist demands that Pakistan should be included in any dialogue. India says there can be no discussion involving Pakistan because it sponsors violence in Kashmir.
India and Pakistan failed to narrow their differences over Kashmir at a summit in the Indian city of Agra in July 2001. Since then, they have continued to trade accusations and outside attempts to get them to resolve their differences have made no headway.
Running parallel to this regional history is the disturbing evidence of how and why Globalist New World Order interests have instituted a specific program of fomenting this conflict and how this links in to the war on terrorism.
Enter the Hidden Hand
Its common knowledge in intelligence circles that the Inter Services Intelligence Agency (Pakistans secret service) runs the entire country in the shadow of dictator General Pervez Musharraf. In turn, the CIA co-ordinate the activities of the ISI. This alliance gave birth to Osama bin Laden, Al-Qaeda and the current war on terrorism. Osama bin Laden left Saudi Arabia in 1979 to fight the invading Soviets in Afghanistan. By 1984 he was running the front organization known as MAK, (Maktab al-Khidamar) which eventually mutated into Al-Qaeda, consisting of the more extreme members of the former group. During the war MAK was nurtured by Pakistans Inter-services Intelligence Agency, ISI.
The ISI was the CIAs covert ally and conduit against Moscows occupation. Via the ISI the kindergarten Al-Qaeda were trained, armed, funded and empowered by the CIA.
The new covert U.S. assistance began with a dramatic increase in arms supplies - a steady rise to 65,000 tons annually by 1987, as well as a ceaseless stream of CIA and Pentagon specialists who traveled to the secret headquarters of Pakistans ISI on the main road near Rawalpindi, Pakistan. There the CIA specialists met with Pakistani intelligence officers to help plan operations for the Afghan rebels, bin Laden included. The Central Intelligence Agency, using Pakistans ISI, played a key role in training the Mujahideen.
The BBC reported that the ISI aided bin Ladens escape from Afghanistan at the end of 2001, Afghan interior minister Younis Qanooni has accused the Pakistani secret service of helping al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden flee Afghanistan. Speaking in an interview with Iranian television, Mr Qanooni said the Pakistani ISI (Inter Services Intelligence) was at odds over Bin Laden with the Pakistani Government, which has supported the American-led war against terror An Afghan defence ministry spokesman suggested last week that Bin Laden had crossed from the Tora Bora region into Pakistan the week before.1 Since the CIA are basically the administrative masters of the ISI, they mandated and approved bin Ladens escape.
As we touched upon earlier, in October 2001, reports surfaced in numerous outlets from the Times of India to CNN, detailing how ISI director-general Lt-Gen Mahmud Ahmad was forced to retire after it emerged that he had hotwired $100,000 to the 9/11 lead hijacker, Mohammed Atta, While the Pakistani Inter Services Public Relations claimed that former ISI director-general Lt-Gen Mahmud Ahmad sought retirement after being superseded on Monday, the truth is more shocking.
Top sources confirmed here on Tuesday, that the general lost his job because of the evidence India produced to show his links to one of the suicide bombers that wrecked the World Trade Center. The US authorities sought his removal after confirming the fact that $100,000 was wired to WTC hijacker Mohammed Atta from Pakistan by Ahmad Umar Sheikh at the instance of Gen Mahumd. Senior government sources have confirmed that India contributed significantly to establishing the link between the money transfer and the role played by the dismissed ISI chief.
While they did not provide details, they said that Indian inputs, including Sheikhs mobile phone number, helped the FBI in tracing and establishing the link.2 Pakistans direct links to Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations are obviously extremely disturbing in light of the fact that everything the ISI does has to be approved by the CIA.
Furthermore, by direct order of President Bush, an estimated 8,000 members of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban were rescued via cargo planes as Kunduz fell to the Northern Alliance in November 2001. Bush had ordered the United States Central Command to set up a special air corridor to help insure the safety of the Pakistani rescue flights from Kunduz to the northwest corner of Pakistan, about two hundred miles away.3 This left both the Delta Force and Northern Alliance indignant. Northern Alliance soldier Mahmud Shah was bewildered at the events stating, We had decided to kill all of them, and we are not happy with America for letting the planes come.4
A senior U.S. defense advisor told the London Times, Everyone brought their friends with them. Youre not going to leave them behind to get their throats cut.5
There were two official explanations for the airlift. One was that rescuing 8,000 known Al-Qaeda and Taliban was an accident.
1 Pakistan spy service aiding Bin Laden BBC December 30 2001http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1734113.stm 2 India helped FBI trace ISI-terrorist links Manoj Joshi Times of India October 9 2001 - http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/cms.dll/articleshow?art_id=1454238160
3 The Getaway - Seymour Hersh - New Yorker Magazine January 28 2002 - http://www.newyorker.com/FACT/?020128fa_FACT
4 The airlift of evil Michael Moran MSNBC November 29 2001 - http://www.msnbc.com/news/664935.asp
5 US let Taliban men escape James Bone London Times January 21 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/us_let_taliban_men_escape.html
The other, and only slightly more plausible reason was that Pakistani dictator General Pervez Musharraf had a huge geopolitical weight on his shoulders in endorsing US military operations in Afghanistan. The cost was the threat of internal insurgency and the overthrow of his regime. Musharraf bargained with Bush. If these Pakistani Army officers, intelligence advisers and volunteers could just be spared, his political survival would be almost ensured. Musharrafs message to the Americans had been that he didnt want to see body bags coming back to Pakistan. Bush agreed to protect the Pakistani leader, providing the rescued Taliban elements would be accessible to American intelligence.
This was not the case because after the airlift the Al-Qaeda and Taliban leaders went AWOL.
FIG 8.1
[CAPTION: Later estimates put the number at 8,000 Taliban and Al-Qaeda rescued
as Kunduz fell and safely airlifted into Kashmir to enflame hostilities between India and Pakistan.]
To emphasize, these 8,000 rescued individuals were high-level Taliban and al-Qaeda operatives fighting against the United States. These secret airlifts gave these terrorists refuge primarily in Kashmir, the disputed border.
The first incident that could have led to a nuclear war between India and Pakistan occurred when, on December 13th 2001, a suicide squad of five heavily armed Muslim terrorists drove past a barrier at the Indian Parliament, in New Delhi, and rushed the main building. At one point, the terrorists were only a few feet from the steps to the office of Indias Vice-President, Krishan Kant.
Nine people were killed in the shoot-out, in addition to the terrorists, and many others were injured. Indian intelligence quickly concluded that the attack had been organized by operatives from two long-standing Kashmiri terrorist organizations that were believed to be heavily supported by the ISI. Was this operation, which would have lead to full-scale war between the two powers had there been more casualties, a consequence of the planning of elite Pakistani and Taliban officials who were rescued on order of the U.S. 21 days earlier?
Here we see the grand chessboard in action, previously discussed by such luminaries of the global elite as Zbygniew Brzezinsky.
Lets use the analogy of one person playing a sole game of chess, moving the pieces on both sides of the board, black and white. Al-Qaeda and similar terrorist organizations are the pawns on the global chessboard. Many believe they are operating of their own free will when in reality an unseen hand is dictating their every movement. They can be sacrificed at any time for the greater good. The end justifies the means. If they reach the other side of the board, as in the game of chess, they may well be promoted to a higher authority, but still they are under control of the same influence.
I n the movement of the Al-Qaeda pawns from Afghanistan to Kashmir by the Bush administration and its Globalist controllers, we witness an orchestrated shift in emphasis from the war on terrorism to the Pakistan-India conflict and the Muslim bomb. This is the next stage in the New World Order out of chaos game plan - the blue touch-paper for world war three.
On June 3rd, the Hindustan Times confirmed that dozens of surviving Al-Qaeda operatives had infiltrated into Pakistan after yet another incident where they were allowed to leave unharmed when they could have been apprehended. The event took place in Peshawar, where top Taliban and Al-Qaeda leadership, including some of Osama bin Ladens chief protectors such as the Talibans deputy foreign minister Abdul Rahman Zaid and top defense ministry official Jalil Yousafzai, attended the funeral of a former anti-Soviet guerrilla fighter. The ISI monitored them but still amazingly allowed them to leave without arrest.6
6 Pakistan winks at Taliban reunion Hindustan Times June 3 2002
Again, the CIA controlled Pakistani authorities are protecting known terrorists, offering them safe passage to Kashmir where a single suicide bomb or political assassination could inflame the entire region and throw it into the abyss of a nuclear war that would have worldwide implications.
Red Dragon Rising
China is an ally of Pakistan. Since the two countries do not share a common history, language, culture or religion and have followed diametrically opposite models of economic and political development, it is clear that China is using Pakistan as a long-term geopolitical tool. Many prolific authors and geopolitical analysts such as Gordon Thomas have highlighted and documented the twofaced behavior of Jiang Zemins communist superpower.
A long-term agenda to bring America to its knees by means of a surprise attack is the ultimate goal. We should be reminded, in this context, of an August 1998 document from the Chinese Central Military Commission that was sent to all corps commanders of the Peoples Liberation Army. The leaked document details how the United States is increasingly vulnerable and could not withstand even a limited nuclear strike from China. Despite its military prominence, America remains unwilling to sacrifice cities in a tit-for-tat war, whereas the Chinese are fully prepared to do so. Therefore, Beijing could hold off Washington if hostilities erupted over Taiwan.
While publicly offering meek support of the war on terrorism, voluminous evidence suggests that China have actually been supporting the Taliban and Osama bin Laden all along. Furthermore, the Bush administration have deliberately ignored the China threat and continue to transfer sensitive computer technology to the Communists, the only practical purpose of which is to design nuclear weapons.7
On the morning of September 11th 2001, terrorists linked to the Al-Qaeda network that was being protected by the Taliban in Afghanistan slammed three planes into the World trade Center and the Pentagon. At the same time a Chinese delegation was in Kabul putting pen to paper on a lucrative economic support package with the Taliban.8 This was by no means the beginning of friendly China-Taliban relations.
As far back as 1998 the Iranian official press said there was a secret defense agreement between China and the Taliban. In 2000, two Chinese telecommunications firms, Huawei Technologies and ZTE, signed contracts to provide limited phone service for Kabul and Kandahar, with a specific focus on equipping Osama bin Laden, who was based there at the time. I n early 2001, a Taliban delegation visited Beijing to continue to foster good relations. Chinas ambassador to Pakistan has also made at least one recent trip to Kabul and met with Taliban officials in Pakistans capital Islamabad.
China continued to support bin Laden and the Taliban as the war broke out in Afghanistan in October of 2001. Debka File intelligence reported that, on October 5th, two days before American air strikes began, a convoy of 15,000 Chinese Muslims were sent to reinforce the Taliban.9 In a later report, Debka also disclosed that large quantities of Chinese-manufactured ammunition were discovered in the Tora Bora cave hideouts of Osama bin Laden. The arms cache included mortar shells, anti-tank rockets and ammunition for various types of automatic rifles and machine guns of Chinese manufacture, abandoned by fleeing Al-Qaeda men.10
In early December 2001 U.S. Undersecretary of State John Bolton met with Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Wang Guangya, urging him to renew a demand that the Chinese curb missile cooperation with Pakistan that was encouraging the likelihood of terrorism and nuclear conflict with India in the region of Kashmir. The sanctions were imposed on the China Metallurgical Equipment Corp. for allegedly transferring ballistic missile technology to Pakistan in violation of a November 2000 agreement with the United States.
This technology was in danger of falling into the hands of extremists who could use nuclear, biological and chemical weapons to attack India. Taking the perspective of historical precedent, China continued to provide Syria, North Korea and possibly Libya with high-tech weaponry despite U.S. warnings, it is unlikely that the meeting had any success and China persists to foment anxiety that could lead to a nuclear exchange between Pakistan and India.
7 High-Tech Transfers To China Continue Zoli Simon Insight Magazine July 8 2002 -http://www.insightmag.com/main.cfm/include/detail/storyid/257504.html
8 China Strengthens Ties with Taleban by Signing Economic Deal John Pomfret International Herald Tribune September 13 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/archive_communist_connection.html 9 Is China moving in? - Debka File October 7 2001 -http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=24831 10 Chinese ammo found in al-Qaida hideouts Debka File December 17 2001 - http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=25732
China continued to goad both Pakistan and India into conflict right up to late 2001.
The Hindustan Times reported,
The hostile actions by the Chinese in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim is, according to strategic experts, part of a well-thought-out move to corner India on two fronts. China has also beefed up its presence in Myanmars Coco Islands on the Bay of Bengal and plans to move in two aircraft carriers that are under construction now to the area. India cannot concentrate exclusively on the western theatre with Pakistan if China undertakes these measures along Arunachal and Sikkim. And it could well be that it is goading Pakistan to anti-Indian actions in Rajasthan, Punjab and Kashmir. A distracted India is a weaker India and China stands to gain the most from it, pointed out a senior army officer.11
11 Tempers flare at Sino-Indian border Hindustan Times December 26 2001 - available at http://apnaway.bravepages.com/us5.htm
We have established that the highest levels of U.S. intelligence and the Bush administration directly fomented hostility in Kashmir, via a conduit in the war on terrorism. China have also played a role in escalating tension in the region by covertly supporting Taliban and Al-Qaeda leaders who would later infiltrate Kashmir. China has also armed Pakistan.
Profits of Death
A minimum of three million people would be killed and 1.5 million seriously injured if even a limited nuclear war broke out between India and Pakistan. The estimates are comprised of the immediate casualty list from blast, fire and radiation if only a tenth of both countries nuclear weapons were exploded above 10 of their largest cities. It does not take account of the inevitable suffering that would result from the loss of homes, hospitals, water and energy supplies, or the cancers that could develop in future years.
Both world wars were caused by lesser events. Who is responsible for this holocaust scenario? Who is arming both Pakistan and India, heightening the possibility of war, and for what reason? Once again, familiar names emerge. Firstly, the Times of India reported in August of 2001 that the San Rafael California-based Berkeley Nucleonics Corporation supplied at least five nuclear pulse generators to India from 1998 onwards.
Three of the devices were exported to the Bhabha Atomic Research Center and two to the Nuclear Power Corporation. Pulse generators are devices that can be used to calibrate instruments that measure atomic reactions. Berkeley Nucleonics, which was founded in 1963, is a highly regarded manufacturer of electronics instrumentation, especially for nuclear research industries. Representatives of the company were actually indicted for this illegal transfer. However, the most interesting aspect of this transfer was that the president of the company claimed he was cajoled by unnamed government agents into making the shipment.
Who were these secret operatives and why were they so desperate for India to receive these nuclear materials? From this perspective we can see that the pieces on the global chessboard were being assembled well in advance of the re-emergence of India-Pakistan tensions in December 2001.
In January of 2002, the Moscow Times reported that British Prime Minister Tony Blair made a visit to India and Pakistan in an attempt to calm ethnic tensions between the two. In reality he was pushing the sale of a lucrative deal with arms merchant BAE Systems for 60 new jet fighters. The Russian newspaper stated, Blairs minions are putting the squeeze on India to accept a $1.4 billion deal with arms merchant BAE Systems for 60 new jet fighters.
This will no doubt have a very calming influence on the balance of power as the subcontinent teeters on the brink of nuclear warthe same kind of calming influence gasoline has on fire. Of course, if Blair can get those billion warbucks into BAEs coffers, Master Georgie will be very pleased. For one of BAEs business partners isGod, this is almost too easy! -- our old friends the Carlyle Group. Faithful readers know that Daddy Bushthe former peddler of poison gas to Iraqhas long been feeding at the Carlyle trough, working his contacts with Saudi royalty, the bin Laden family, Asian dictators, South American junta honchos and other respectable characters to cement sweetheart deals for the Reagan-Bush retreads who skim the cream off Carlyles $13 billion nest egg.12
The BBC reported these BAE-India negotiations back in August 2001, stating, BAE Systems has insisted it is confident of securing a £1bn Hawk jets deal with India despite reports the sale faces collapse. The company is in discussions with the Indian Government over the purchase of 66 advanced trainer jets. Reports in the media suggested that the air force is now poised to pull out of the plan and buy Russian MiG jets instead. But management and unions at BAE Systems say they are confident an agreement will be struck.13
The Carlyle Group is one of the biggest Aerospace & Defense contractors in the world today. They manage approximately $14 billion in assets, without actually manufacturing anything. This is by no means their only sector of interest but its certainly their primary focus of attention. The group is staffed by some of the most powerful individuals on the planet, including former U.S. President George Herbert Walker Bush and former British Prime Minister John Major.
Obviously, since September 11th the explosion of the arms market has seen their profits smash through the roof. However, Carlyle state, Were not too keen on discussing anything related to the political nature of the people at Carlyle. Theres a very good reason for this. Until October 2001, the bin Laden family had a stake in Carlyle. President Bushs father met with the bin Laden family two months before the September 11 attacks. The Wall Street Journal went so far as call outright for George Herbert Walker Bush to resign from the group.14
The bin Laden family, publicly at least, withdrew from Carlyle. No doubt they received a healthy severance pay.
12 Global Eye: Pretzel Logic Chris Floyd Moscow Times January 18 2002 13 BAE confident of securing £1bn deal BBC August 9 2001 -http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/1481777.stm 14 Bin Laden Family Could Profit From a Jump In Defense Spending Due to Ties to U.S. Bank Wall Street Journal 27 September 2001 - http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/WAL110A.html
FIG 8.2
[CAPTION: Former President George Bush met with King Fahd, on a trip to Saudi Arabia on Carlyle Group business in May 2001.]
Recall that UK based BAE Systems is arming India to the tune of $1.4 billion dollars. BAE and Carlyle have some very close connections. Several of the members of the House and Senate Intelligence committees investigating September 11th such as Randy Duke Cunningham have received thousands of dollars in campaign finance from Carlyle and BAE in conjunction.
In April of 2001, Carlyle invested capital equity in BAE, adding to their $13 billion worth of assets. BAE announced this on their web site but strangely removed the press release three months later.15 Just a week after I authored an article on Carlyle and BAE that featured on my web site, a plethora of reports emerged from British newspapers outlining the same details. The most comprehensive report appeared in the Sunday Herald of Scotland. They mentioned the $1.4 billion BAE-India deal.
They also stated,
In 2000 Britain granted some 700 defense export licenses to companies selling weapons to India worth around £64.5 million. These included components for air-to-surface missiles, aircraft machine guns, armored personnel carriers, combat aircraft, torpedoes and combat helicopters. The UK also sold India military aircraft engines, military communications equipment, tear gas and other riot control equipment and air-to-surface missiles. In the same year the UK sold £6m worth of weapons to Pakistan. This included components for combat helicopters, frigates and naval vessels as well as military communications equipment, military training aircraft and military utility vehicles. In 1999, the UK sold £57.5m worth of weapons to India and £11.5m to Pakistan. Britain, as the list shows, is happy to sell the same weapons to two countries on the brink of all-out war. The government is flying right in the face of the EU code of conduct on weapons sales.16
In 2000 Britain granted some 700 defense export licenses to companies selling weapons to India worth around £64.5 million. These included components for air-to-surface missiles, aircraft machine guns, armored personnel carriers, combat aircraft, torpedoes and combat helicopters. The UK also sold India military aircraft engines, military communications equipment, tear gas and other riot control equipment and air-to-surface missiles.
In the same year the UK sold £6m worth of weapons to Pakistan. This included components for combat helicopters, frigates and naval vessels as well as military communications equipment, military training aircraft and military utility vehicles. In 1999, the UK sold £57.5m worth of weapons to India and £11.5m to Pakistan. Britain, as the list shows, is happy to sell the same weapons to two countries on the brink of all-out war. The government is flying right in the face of the EU code of conduct on weapons sales.16
The Herald identified British MPs such as Jack Straw and John Prescott as being complicit in undertaking clandestine trips to the two countries to push these sales under the guise of talks on sustainable development. The paper labeled Tony Blair a warmonger and directly stated that this behavior could lead to the death of millions of innocent civilians. It was also reported that 64 military commanders from Pakistan and India were trained in Britain last year.
This surge of mainstream coverage highlighted the fact that deeper influences were behind the push towards nuclear war. It was at this point, in early June of 2002, that Donald Rumsfeld told his Bilderberg colleagues it was unlikely a war would now take place between Pakistan and India and hostilities between the two almost immediately subsided.
15 BAE Systems enters agreement with the Carlyle Group BAE Systems website April 21 2001 archived at http://www.aerotechnews.com/starc/2001/042701/BAE_Carlyle.html
16 Cash from chaos: how Britain arms both sides Neil Mackay Sunday Herald 2 June 2002 - http://www.sundayherald.com/25178
I have no doubt that my original story on the issue, which was picked up by many big alternative media outlets and then went mainstream, had a significant impact on the Globalists decision to scupper any possible war. We shined a light on the cockroaches and the cockroaches scuttled back into the darkness.
Endgame
Its admitted that Blair is under the thumb of the internationalist Bilderberg Group. Reuters had no qualms in telling us that Bilderberg groom Presidents and Prime Ministers behind our back in a 2001 report.17 Blair attended a Bilderberg conference in Greece in 1993 when he was a little known Home Affairs spokesman. Four years later he was Prime Minister of Britain.
17 Secretive Bilderberg group to meet in Sweden Peter Starck Reuters 23 May 2001 archived at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/reuters_bilderberg.html
Now he stands shoulder to shoulder with George Bush as a global chaos agent.
FIG 8.3
[CAPTION: Many in Britain think Tony Blair is a poodle of George W. Bush
but in reality both are just poodle front men for the New World Order.]
Its abundantly clear that the Carlyle Group war hawks stand to profit in the billions from a Pakistani-India conflict, whether that be a limited exchange or a full blown nuclear meltdown. Their tentacles bore deep into the ISI-Pakistan-CIA axis of control that is protecting terrorists on the Kashmir border. They are also arming India via BAE. Who is to say that the bin Ladens are not still covertly involved in Carlyle? How long will it be until the CIA via the Pakistani ISI utilizes Al-Qaeda henchmen, dropped in place by Bushs rescue flights, to attack the region, pushing both India and Pakistan into the abyss of nuclear war? A nuclear war that would crash the world economy and facilitate world war three.
All too familiar interlocking Globalist influences are turning up the heat in Kashmir to boiling point. Both militaries have been armed by the elite. Both armies have been trained by the elite. Chaos bubbles under the surface. All it will take to explode is one move on the global chessboard, one act of controlled terror.
For the elite, a short term Armageddon of chaos, followed by an infinite reward of sustained order.
Back to Contents
