# Order Out of Chaos - 05

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/order_chaos/order_chaos05.htm

Chapter 5 9/11: Countdown to Terror Warnings Ignored
The subject of September 11 is so broad in its scope that it cannot be detailed from just one perspective. In the following three chapters I will cover the events before, during and after the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Initially we will document the overwhelming amount of evidence indicating that the US knew the attacks were about to take place. The question of why the attacks took place despite the fact that they could have been prevented runs parallel throughout this extended section of the book.
It is important to note that the official story of 9/11 can be dismantled from two or more different angles. If we are to believe that nineteen suicide hijackers carried out the attacks on behalf of Al-Qaeda then it can be proven that these men were trained, funded and allowed into the country by the U.S. establishment. They were tracked and traced and their intentions were well known by the authorities, many months and even years before that fateful day. I will present the evidence to verify these claims in this chapter.
In the following chapter I will switch to the second and more cutting edge angle of research, namely that the Al-Qaeda plot was merely a smokescreen to shadow who really carried out the attacks and what methods were used.
Alleged Hijackers Trained at U.S Air Bases
Common sense suggests that to prevent future acts of suicide hijacking, one needs to go to the source of the hijackers training and shut it down. At the very least, stern questions need to be asked concerning why three or more of the alleged September 11 perpetrators were trained at one of the USAs foremost Naval complexes, and why this shocking notion received scant media attention and was subsequently subject to a complete press blackout.
September 14th, just three days after the attack on America, FBI director Robert S. Mueller stated, perhaps one could have averted this.1 This was in response to reports confirming that several of the suicide hijackers had received flight training within the United States. For the moment we will set aside the shocking revelation that seven or more of the named nineteen suicide hijackers are still alive, this evidence will appear later. For the sake of clarity, at this point we will work from the notion that the FBIs nineteen named hijackers are actually the ones who carried out the September 11 atrocities, albeit operating under slightly changed birth dates and/or names with regard to the discrepancies between military training records and the official FBI list.
1 FBI Knew Terrorists Were Using Flight Schools - Steve Fainaru and James V. Grimaldi Washington Post September 23 2001 - http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac3/ContentServer?pagename=article&articleid=A10840-2001Sep22&node=nation/specials/attacked/archive
The Pensacola Naval Air Station is recognized as the premier naval installation in the Department of the Navy. The Complex in Escambia and Santa Rosa counties employs more than 16,000 military and 7,400 civilian personnel. It is also where as many as four of the FBIs nineteen suspected suicide hijackers participated in the facilitys flight training program for foreign military trainees in the 1990s.2 Three of these individuals listed their addresses on drivers licenses and car registrations as the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Fla. according to a high-ranking U.S. Navy source.3
Namely, Saeed Alghamdi and Ahmad Alnami, who allegedly were two of the four men that hijacked United Airlines Flight 93 and subsequently crashed in Stony Creek Township, Pennsylvania, and Ahmed Alghamdi, alleged co-hijacker of United Airlines Flight 75, which hit the south tower of the World Trade Center. Military records also confirm that the three used their address as 10 Radford Boulevard, a base roadway on which residences for foreign military flight trainees are located.
The Florida link is clear. The FBI lists no less than eleven of the hijackers as having lived or living in Florida, including six in the Delray Beach area alone. It is also interesting to note that several of the hijackers, including the lead hijacker Mohamed Atta, lived in Hollywood, hardly a puritanical hotbed of Islamic fundamentalism.
With regard to the three Pensacola students, it is confirmed that their training was financed by Saudi Arabia, birthplace of the majority of the nineteen hijackers and a supposed ally of the United States. Days after Newsweek published this story, Florida Democratic Senator Bill Nelson angrily faxed a message to Attorney General John Ashcroft, demanding to know if it was correct. The response was a deafening silence.
A spokesman for Senator Nelson subsequently stated,
In the wake of those reports we asked about the Pensacola Naval Air Station but we never got a definitive answer from the Justice Department. So we asked the FBI for an answer if and when they could provide us one. Their response to date has been that they are trying to sort through something complicated and difficult.4
The FBI never did provide an answer. The Pensacola-terrorist link has been buried. The story broke in a few mainstream publications in mid-September 2001 but has since vanished. Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee Bob Graham also requested information on the Pensacola tie-in. We must assume that he was also stonewalled or otherwise told to keep the information confidential, due to the fact that, once again, this story has not since appeared in the mainstream media.
2 Pensacola NAS link faces more scrutiny Larry Wheeler Pensacola News Journal September 17 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/pensacola_nas_link_scrutiny.html 3 Alleged Hijackers May Have Trained at U.S. Bases - George Wehrfritz, Catharine Skipp and John Barry Newsweek September 15 2001 - http://www.msnbc.com/news/629529.asp?cp1=1 4 Did Terrorist Pilots Train at U.S. Military Schools? Daniel Hopsicker - http://www.madcowprod.com/index5.html
The Clinton Administrations Protection of Terrorists The government terrorism paradigm is by no means divided down party lines. The Clinton administration provided the framework from which Al-Qaeda grew in stature. The September 11 plot could have been crushed in the last years of the 20th century.
It is accepted that the complex sequence of events we saw unfold on September 11th would have generated an excessive volume of communications - whether by radio, cell phone, land line, fax or modem - among the terrorists, among their Middle-Eastern sponsors and among commercial contacts here and abroad. The contention that the NSA purposefully avoided intercepting Al-Qaeda communication doesnt even have to be debated when it is known that bin Ladens network had the sophisticated communication equipment necessary to duck detection up until the late nineties. And who sold them that equipment?
As was the case with Iraq, the U.S. Government. The Clinton administration provided the terrorist supporting nation of Syria with spread-spectrum radios, fiber optics and highly advanced computer networks that are invulnerable to wiretap. Syria in turn passed this technology on to numerous terrorist cells around the world, including Al-Qaeda.
According to World Net Daily,
The dozen or so Islamic terrorists who pulled off the plot to strike at Americas nerve centers in New York and Washington spent at least five years researching, planning and coordinating the surprise attacks, U.S. security officials say. And they did it completely in secret, using the worlds most sophisticated telecommunications equipment, some secured by advanced encryption technology that most armies dont have the NSA wasnt able to detect the Islamic terrorists plot because of the high quality of the communications gear that theyve been acquiring over the last couple of years, thanks to the Clinton administrations decontrols on advanced-telecommunications equipment.5
However, this was by no means the only way in which Clinton and his administration proliferated the activities of the international Al-Qaeda network. Clinton security chiefs repeatedly rejected vital intelligence that would have resulted in stifling numerous worldwide terror cells, primarily Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda. The government of Sudan offered to both arrest bin Laden or at least closely monitor his activities within the country, and turn over files, some an inch and a half thick, a vast database on bin Laden and more than 200 leading members of his Al-Qaeda network.
They included photographs, and information on their families, backgrounds and contacts. Most were Afghan Arabs, Saudis, Yemenis and Egyptians who had fought with bin Laden against the Soviets in Afghanistan. These resources would, according to a former Clinton administration official, have entailed that we probably would have never seen a September 11.6
Clintons Secretary of State Madeleine Albright responded to the offer by giving the order for US missiles to blast the al-Shifa medicine factory, which supplied 60 per cent of Sudans medicines, and had contracts to make vaccines with the UN.
5 US equipped terror sponsors Paul Sperry World Net Daily September 12 2001 - http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=24466
6 Demagoguing September 11 Editorial Washington Times May 21 2002 http://www.washtimes.com/op-ed/20020521-998991.htm
FIG 5.1
[CAPTION: The Clinton administration was instrumental in protecting the Al-Qaeda network.
The Monica Lewinsky scandal was released intentionally to distract the American public from this treasonous activity.]
I n the spring of 1996, Sudan, using a back channel direct from its president to the CIA, offered to arrest bin Laden and place him in custody in Saudi Arabia. The initial meeting took place at a hotel in Arlington, Virginia, on March 3 of that year.
One of the officials who oversaw this and subsequent engagements was Mansoor Ijaz, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and chairman of a New York-based investment company. He states,
From 1996 to 1998, I opened unofficial channels between Sudan and the Clinton administration. I met with officials in both countries, including Clinton, U.S. National Security Advisor Samuel R. Sandy Berger and Sudans president and intelligence chief. President Omar Hassan Ahmed Bashir, who wanted terrorism sanctions against Sudan lifted, offered the arrest and extradition of Bin Laden and detailed intelligence data about the global networks constructed by Egypts Islamic Jihad, Irans Hezbollah and the Palestinian Hamas. Among those in the networks were the two hijackers who piloted commercial airliners into the World Trade Center. The silence of the Clinton administration in responding to these offers was deafening.7
The Saudi Fahd Monarchy didnt treat bin Ladens proposed extradition to Saudi Arabia with enthusiasm. Geopolitical hesitation meant that the White House did not press the Saudis on this issue at all. This meant that, following intense pressure from Saudi Arabia and the U.S., Sudan agreed to expel bin Laden and up to 300 of his associates. They were now free to leave for Afghanistan, providing total anonymity and escaping the sophisticated tracking methods that the Sudanese were capable of and had offered.
Subsequent analysis by U.S. intelligence confirms bin Laden had full access to his Sudanese assets from his new position in Afghanistan, directly contradicting a previously held White House assumption that it was valuable in itself to force bin Laden out of Sudan, supposedly tearing him away from his extensive network of business, investments and training camps. This thinking was proven woefully inaccurate. Sudanese intelligence believed this to be a great mistake and indeed it had disastrous consequences, Sudan expelled Mr. bin Laden on May 18, 1996, to Afghanistan.
From there, he is thought to have planned and financed the bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the near-destruction of the American destroyer Cole in Yemen last year and the devastation in New York and Washington on Sept. 11.8
7 Clinton Let Bin Laden Slip Away and Metastasize Mansoor Ijaz L.A. Times December 5 2001 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/clinton_let_bin_laden_slip_and_metastasize.html
8 In 96, Sudan Offered to Arrest bin Laden Barton Gellman International Herald Tribune October 4 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/sudan_offered_to_arrest_bin_laden.html
On the surface, it would seem bitterness and paranoia towards Sudan was responsible for the outright refusal to take up their numerous offers. The US proclaimed the country as being a terrorist state, and the subsequent Bush administration has made noises about making Sudan one of the next targets in their crusade. This, despite the fact that in May 2001, a joint CIA/FBI investigative team concluded that Africas largest country is in no way a sponsor of international terrorism. Sudan has its own internal problems. Over the past two decades, a civil war pitting black Christians and animists in the south against the Arab-Muslims of the north has cost at least 1.5 million lives in war and famine-related deaths, as well as the displacement of millions of others.
Since this story broke in late 2001, former members of the Clinton administration have trashed it as being a complete fabrication. Then perhaps they could explain why Clinton himself admitted the Sudan affair in a February 15 2002 Long Island Association speech, Mr. bin Laden used to live in Sudan, Clinton explained to a Feb. 15 Long Island Association luncheon.
He was expelled from Saudi Arabia in 1991, then he went to Sudan. And wed been hearing that the Sudanese wanted America to start meeting with them again.They released him, the ex-president confirmed.At the time, 1996, he had committed no crime against America so I did not bring him here because we had no basis on which to hold him, though we knew he wanted to commit crimes against America.So I pleaded with the Saudis to take him, cause they could have, Clinton explained. But they thought it was a hot potato and they didnt and thats how he wound up in Afghanistan.9
He was expelled from Saudi Arabia in 1991, then he went to Sudan. And wed been hearing that the Sudanese wanted America to start meeting with them again.They released him, the ex-president confirmed.At the time, 1996, he had committed no crime against America so I did not bring him here because we had no basis on which to hold him, though we knew he wanted to commit crimes against America.So I pleaded with the Saudis to take him, cause they could have, Clinton explained.
But they thought it was a hot potato and they didnt and thats how he wound up in Afghanistan.9
The Sudan-Clinton fiasco is just a drop in the ocean in the context of how Al-Qaeda could have been stopped at numerous different points in the build up to September 11.
According to one senior CIA source,
This represents the worst single intelligence failure in this whole terrible business. It is the key to the whole thing right now. It is reasonable to say that had we had this data we may have had a better chance of preventing the attacks.10
9 Clinton Admits: I Nixed Bin Laden Extradition Offer Carl Limbacher Newsmax August 11 2002 - http://www.newsmax.com/showinsidecover.shtml?a=2002/8/10/230919
10 Resentful west spurned Sudans key terror files - David Rose - London Observer - September 30 2001 available at http://www.observer.co.uk/international/story/0%2C6903%2C560624%2C00.html
Planes as Weapons
When September 11 prior knowledge broke in the mainstream media in May of 2002 most of the debate focused on the use of planes as bombs and whether or not intelligence agencies had considered this method of attack. Although the coverage was a whitewash in itself it can easily be proven that authorities knew terrorists were likely to use airliners as bombs.
Once this is known, those that gave press conferences denying the jetliners as bombs foreknowledge, such as Condoleeza Rice, George Tenet and George Bush, can be exposed as outright liars.
On May 16, National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice, who was warned September 6 2001 You must move more quickly on homeland security, an attack is going to happen by Senator Gary Hart, stated,
I dont think anybody could have predicted that these people would take an airplane and slam it into the World Trade Center, take another one and slam it into the Pentagon, that they would try to use an airplane as a missile, a hijacked airplane as a missile.11
Ari Fleischer, President Bushs press secretary, again on May 16, stated,
The President did notnotreceive information about the use of airplanes as missiles by suicide bombers. This was a new type of attack that had not been foreseen.12
President Bush, in a May 17 speech commented,
Had I known that the enemy was going to use airplanes to kill on that fateful morning, I would have done everything in my power to protect the American people.13
All of the above statements are false. There were numerous indications that the method of a kamikaze attack using hijacked airliners was in the works.
In October 2000, the Pentagon conducted a series of simulations designed to test the response to a commercial airliner crashing into their headquarters, as took place on September 11th.
The fire and smoke from the downed passenger aircraft billows from the Pentagon courtyard. Defense Protective Services Police seal the crash sight. Army medics, nurses and doctors scramble to organize aid. An Arlington Fire Department chief dispatches his equipment to the affected areas. Don Abbott, of Command Emergency Response Training, walks over to the Pentagon and extinguishes the flames. The Pentagon was a model and the plane crash was a simulated one. The Pentagon Mass Casualty Exercise, as the crash was called, was just one of several scenarios that emergency response teams were exposed to Oct. 24-26 in the Office of the Secretaries of Defense conference room.14
The CIA on the very morning of September 11th was also conducting a mock exercise where a plane crashes into its headquarters. This exercise was obviously planned before the terrorist attacks.
11 For years, signs suggested that something was up Bill Gertz Washington Times May 17 2002 - http://www.washtimes.com/national/20020517-70217917.htm
12 Press Briefing by Ari Fleischer May 16 2002 http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/05/20020516-4.html
13 President Discusses Response to September 11 Attacks - Remarks by the President at Presentation of Commander-In-Chiefs Trophy May 17 2002 - http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/05/20020517-1.html
14 Contingency planning Pentagon MASCAL exercise simulates scenarios in preparing for emergencies The United States Army Military District of Washington November 3 2000 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/pentagon_preparing.htm
In what the government describes as a bizarre coincidence, one U.S. intelligence agency was planning an exercise last Sept. 11 in which an errant aircraft would crash into one of its buildings.15 Of course, every smoking gun youll read about in these pages is just one in a series of bizarre coincidences.
The US was warned in 1995 of a plot to hijack commercial planes and slam them into the Pentagon and the World Trade Center. The plan was named Project Bojinka and was uncovered by Philippine authorities. It originated with Ramzi Yousef, one of the masterminds of the first WTC bombing in 1993. The information was passed on to the FBI who totally ignored it,
The FBI was warned six years ago of a terrorist plot to hijack commercial planes and slam them into the Pentagon, the CIA headquarters and other buildings, Philippine investigators told CNN. Philippine authorities learned of the plot after a small fire in a Manila apartment, which turned out to be the hideout of Ramzi Yousef, who was later convicted for his role in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. Yousef escaped at the time, but agents caught his right-hand man, Abdul Hakim Murad, who told them a chilling tale.
Murad narrated to us about a plan by the Ramzi cell in the continental U.S. to hijack a commercial plane and ram it into the CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, and also the Pentagon, said Rodolfo Mendoza, a Philippine intelligence investigator.
Philippine investigators also found evidence targeting commercial towers in San Francisco, Chicago and New York City. They said they passed that information on to the FBI in 1995, but its not clear what was done with it.16
FIG 5.2
[CAPTION: The World Trade Center was known to have been a target of suicide hijackers since as far back as 1995.]
U.S. and Italian officials were warned in July that Islamic terrorists might attempt to kill President Bush and other leaders by crashing an airliner into the Genoa summit of industrialized nations. They went so far as to mount anti-aircraft guns at the citys airport, U.S. and Italian officials were warned in July that Islamic terrorists might attempt to kill President Bush and other leaders by crashing an airliner into the Genoa summit of industrialized nations, officials said Wednesday.
Italian officials took the reports seriously enough to prompt extraordinary precautions during the July summit of the Group of 8 nations, including closing the airspace over Genoa and stationing antiaircraft guns at the citys airport the reports suggest that Western governments were aware that terrorists might one day use a hijacked airplane as a suicide weaponas they did Sept. 11 in attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.17
15 Agency planned exercise on Sept. 11 built around a plane crashing into a building John J. Lumpkin Associated Press August 21 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/agency_planned_exercise_on_sept_11_built_around_a_plane_crashing_into_a_building.htm
16 U.S. warned in 1995 of plot to hijack planes, attack buildings Maria Ressa CNN September 18 2001 - http://www.cnn.com/2001/US/09/18/inv.hijacking.philippines/
17 Italy Tells of Threat at Genoa Summit L.A. Times September 27 2001 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/Italy_Tells_of_Threat_at_Genoa_Summit.htm
"The BBC reported further, Islamic extremists were said to be trying to hit Bush in the air, Mr Fini told the Panorama news magazine What I know is that intelligence (services) in Italy knew that an air attack was considered to be possible and that was the reason why we closed the airspace in Genoa during the G8 summit, Mr Ruggiero said.
Air defenses were also established.18 The worldwide Echelon spy network also gave British and German intelligence clear information that terrorists were going to hijack commercial planes and use them to attack symbols of American and Israeli culture, U.S. and Israeli intelligence agencies received warning signals at least three months ago that Middle Eastern terrorists were planning to hijack commercial aircraft to use as weapons to attack important symbols of American and Israeli culture, according to a story in Germanys daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ).
The FAZ, quoting unnamed German intelligence sources, said that the Echelon spy network was being used to collect information about the terrorist threats, and that U.K. intelligence services apparently also had advance warning. The FAZ, one of Germanys most respected dailies, said that even as far back as six months ago western and near-east press services were receiving information that such attacks were being planned The FAZ, in its news story, described the system as covering the whole world with 120 satellites.
The newspaper also said Israeli intelligence had collected information indicated that Arab terrorist groups planned to hijack planes in Europe to use as weapons to attack targets in Tel Aviv and other coastal cities in Israel.19 The National Intelligence Council, which advises the president and U.S. intelligence on emerging threats, issued a September 1999 report that again emphasized Al-Qaeda were planning to hijack planes and ram them into government and commercial buildings,
Suicide bomber(s) belonging to al Qaedas Martyrdom Battalion could crash-land an aircraft packed with high explosives (C-4 and semtex) into the Pentagon, the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), or the White House.20
18 Extremists planned Genoa attack on Bush BBC September 27 2001 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/1566982.stm
19 Echelon Gave Authorities Warning Of Attacks Ned Stafford Biz Report September 13 2001 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/echelon_gave_authorities_warning_of_attacks.html
20 Report Warned Of Suicide Hijackings CBS News May 17 2002 - http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2002/05/18/attack/main509488.shtml
Now we know government officials were briefed on an imminent terrorist attacks using planes as bombs, it becomes clear why Attorney General John Ashcroft, whos pre-9/11 budget requests didnt include any money for anti-terrorism, was avoiding commercial airlines, In response to inquiries from CBS News over why Ashcroft was traveling exclusively by leased jet aircraft instead of commercial airlines, the Justice Department cited what it called a threat assessment by the FBI, and said Ashcroft has been advised to travel only by private jet for the remainder of his term.
There was a threat assessment and there are guidelines. He is acting under the guidelines, an FBI spokesman said.
Neither the FBI nor the Justice Department, however, would identify what the threat was, when it was detected or who made it.21 In April 2000, a man walked into the FBI field office in Newark and told agents face to face of the plan to hijack airliners,
He said he was involved in a plot by Osama bin Laden to hijack a Boeing 747. He told agents that he had learned hijacking techniques at a training camp in Pakistan and was meeting five or six other hijackers in the United States who planned to overpower the planes crew, according to the report released last week by the congressional panel investigating the Sept. 11 attacks.22
British Intelligence, MI6, warned the CIA in 1999 and then again a month before the attack that Al-Qaeda were about to hijack planes and use them as bombs, MI6 warned the American intelligence services about a plot to hijack aircraft and crash them into buildings two years before the September 11 attacks.
Liaison staff at the American embassy in Grosvenor Square in London were passed a secret report by MI6 in 1999 after the intelligence service picked up indications from human intelligence sources (Humint) that Osama Bin Ladens followers were planning attacks in which civilian aircraft could be used in unconventional ways.23 This was just one of several reports that British Prime Minister Tony Blair was briefed on by GCHQ, MI5 and MI6, including a July 16 memo which outlined the fact that Osama bin Laden was in the final planning stages of an attack on America. Since the CIA work jointly with British intelligence, the Americans were well aware of these reports.
Al-Qaeda members in Italy was discussing a plot to use planes as weapons in wiretaps heard by investigators thirteen months before September 11,
In one conversation, a suspected Yemeni terrorist tells an Egyptian based in Italy about a massive strike against the enemies of Islam involving aircraft and the sky, a blow that will be written about in all the newspapers of the world. In the future, listen to the news and remember these words: Above the head ... remember well, remember well.... The danger in the airports.... There are clouds in the sky there in international territory, in that country, the fire has been lit and is awaiting only the wind, the Yemeni said Later, according to the transcript, he said the fight against Islams enemies would be waged with any means we can combat them, using ... airplanes: They wont be able to stop us even with their heaviest weapons.24
In one conversation, a suspected Yemeni terrorist tells an Egyptian based in Italy about a massive strike against the enemies of Islam involving aircraft and the sky, a blow that will be written about in all the newspapers of the world.
In the future, listen to the news and remember these words: Above the head ... remember well, remember well.... The danger in the airports.... There are clouds in the sky there in international territory, in that country, the fire has been lit and is awaiting only the wind, the Yemeni said Later, according to the transcript, he said the fight against Islams enemies would be waged with any means we can combat them, using ... airplanes: They wont be able to stop us even with their heaviest weapons.24
21 Ashcroft Flying High CBS News July 26 2001 - http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2001/07/26/national/main303601.shtml 22 FAA got alerts but no blame in attacks Bill Adair St. Petersburg Times September 23 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/faa_got_alerts_but_no_blame_in_attacks.htm 23 MI6 Warned US of Al-Qaeda Attacks Nicholas Rufford London Times June 9 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/mi6_warned_us_of_al_qaeda_attacks.htm 24 Wiretaps May Have Foretold Terror Attacks Sebastian Rotella and Josh Meyer L.A. Times May 29 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/Wiretaps_May_Have_Foretold_Terror_Attacks.htm
An Al-Qaeda cell in Madrid, Spain was also taped by authorities discussing an airborne attack plot. At the same time, Jordan and Morocco passed on information to the US concerning a plot named Great Wedding.
Morocco had infiltrated an agent within Al-Qaeda who confirmed that Great Wedding was the code name of an attack using aircraft. The Moroccan Secret Service agent successfully infiltrated Al-Qaeda for two months before the 9/11attacks.
Hassan Dabou broke cover in the summer of 2001 to warn his bosses that the terror group was plotting something spectacular in New York. The operation was to be large scale and would occur in the summer or autumn of 2001. Secret service chiefs are said to have taken seriously the tip from one of its veteran informants and immediately passed on the details to Washington.
As far back as eight years ago, reputable individuals were warning the American government that highly symbolic U.S. targets were under threat of being attacked by suicide hijackers using jetliners, Military adviser Dr Marvin Cetron says he prepared a 250-page report for the US intelligence agencies in 1993 which detailed his concerns - but it was ignored.
I said ... aircraft could hit the White House or the Pentagon - making a left turn at the Washington Monument and running into the White House, or a right turn and going into the Pentagon, Dr Cetron said. He added: They understood and they ignored it.25
25 Washington was warned of hijack risk London Telegraph September 13 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/washington_was_warned_of_hijack_risk.htm
The Pentagon was furious with Cetron for merely highlighting public reports of previous planes-as-bombs incidents. They immediately ordered him to delete warnings specific to these incidents from the report.
The 1999 edition of the FAAs annual report on Criminal Acts Against Aviation stated that an exiled Islamic leader in Britain proclaimed in August 1998 that Mr. bin Laden would bring down an airliner, or hijack an airliner to humiliate the United States.
In an October 3 2001 report, the New York Times documented just some of the instances before September 11 where the motive of seizing control of a commercial airliner and driving it into a building or structure was apparent, That was the December 1994 hijacking of an Air France flight in Algiers. The sponsor of the hijacking was an organization called the Armed Islamic Group, which said it was trying to rid Muslim Algeria of Western influence, specifically from France.
Four young Algerians, members of a subgroup called Phalange of the Signers in Blood, commandeered the plane at the airport and ordered it to fly to Marseille, from which they said they wanted to fly to Paris. But they demanded that it be loaded with 27 tons of fuel about three times as much as required for the flight to Paris. The plane was an Airbus A300, which is nearly as large as the Boeing 767s that struck the World Trade Center.
The French authorities determined from hostages who had been released and from other sources that the group planned to explode the plane over Paris or crash it into the Eiffel Tower Eight months earlier, in April 1994, a flight engineer at Federal Express who was facing a disciplinary hearing that could have ended his career, boarded a DC-10 as a passenger and stormed into the cockpit with a hammer, hitting each of the three members of the cockpit crew in the head and severely injuring all of them. They wrestled him to the deck and regained control of the plane. Prosecutors said only that the man wanted to crash the plane, but company employees have said he was trying to hit the building in Memphis where the company sorts packages.
In between those two incidents, in September 1994, a lone pilot crashed a stolen single-engine Cessna into a tree on the White House grounds just short of the presidents bedroom.26
Congressional investigator Eleanor Hill headed a September 11 enquiry and published a 30-page report. Despite media commentators and even Hill herself labeling advance warning of a potential plot to fly planes into certain buildings as vague the report stated,
US agencies discovered that a group of unidentified Arabs planned to fly an explosive-laden plane from a foreign country into the World Trade Center - but did little about it.27
26 Earlier Hijackings Offered Signals That Were Missed Matthew L. Wald New York Times October 3 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/earlier_hijackings_offered_signals_that_were_missed.html 27 US failed to heed terror warnings BBC September 18 2002 -http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/2267160.stm
Arabs - plane - fly - into - World Trade Center. Oh yes - very vague. The same report claimed that there were twelve indications that an attack was imminent from March 2001. Twelve? I list nearly a hundred in this chapter alone, and theyre all documented. The document also highlighted the fact that intelligence agencies received at least a dozen reports of plans to use aircraft as weapons since 1994.
In liberally quoting the mainstream sources above it can be established that the planes as bombs scenario was a distinct possibility and had been considered numerous times before September 11. The Japanese used planes as bombs when they attacked Pearl Harbor as far back as 1941.
I do not present this argument as evidence of prior knowledge of the attacks, although many would categorize it as that too, but I simply point to the evidence to prove that in stating this method of attack hadnt been considered, Bush, Rice and Fleischer were all lying and they knew it. No matter how much emotional bile Condoleeza Rice was able to fake when she said, I dont think anybody could have predicted that these people would take an airplane and slam it into the World Trade Center, she was being overtly deceitful to the relatives of the dead victims.
If they lied about this, what else did they lie about?
The 20th Hijacker
The case of Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker, again underscores the planes as bombs issue. The repeated high-level blockades on his arrest and investigation also introduce us to the next 9/11 smoking gun why were FBI agents obstructed from prosecuting Al-Qaeda members before September 11?
According to MSNBC,
The question being asked here is if they put two and two together, they could have gotten a lot more information about the guy - if not stopped the hijacking.28
An individual at a flight school makes it clear that he is only interested in flying a large passenger jet over New York City air space at cruising altitude, and has no concern about taking off or landing. French intelligence repeatedly warns that this individual is a member of Al-Qaeda. This alone you would suspect would mandate a cursory search of the individuals computer hard drive. Not according to the Justice Department. The case of Zacarias Moussaoui highlights another disturbing example of how key intelligence that would have prevented September 11th was purposefully withheld from well-intentioned FBI agents.
It is now clear that Moussaoui was supposed to have been the fifth hijacker on board flight 93 that crashed in southwest Pennsylvania. He was absent from that role due to being placed in detention on minor immigration charges on August 17, 2001, and cheered from his Sherburne County jail cell as the attack unfolded on that fateful day.
Moussaoui, a 33-year-old French national, lived in London for 9 years, a follower of radical Islamic cleric and MI5 lovechild Abu Qatada, before receiving $15,000 in bank transfers from known associates of the September 11 suicide hijackers.
He then set off for the Pan Am International Flight Academy in Eagen, just outside Minneapolis. Once there, Moussaoui only sought training in making turns - not take-offs and landings - and specifically asked about flying over New York air space. Moussaoui made it clear that he was there to learn how to pilot a 747-400, despite the fact that he had only been trained on a single-engine Cessna and was relatively incompetent as a student. His instructor, a former military pilot, urgently briefed Minnesota Congressman James L. Oberstar and other officials concerning his suspicions and directly warned the FBI,
Do you realize that a 747 loaded with fuel can be used as a bomb?29
The FBI officials in turn promptly warned the Federal Aviation Administration, who took no action and saw no reason to check scores of other flight schools where Middle Eastern men were seeking flight training. Local FBI agents were not so incompetent. They seized Moussaouis computer in mid-August. As Moussaoui, now under arrest and scrutiny, told FBI and INS agents that he always wanted to fly a big plane,30 Minnesota FBI officials begged the Justice Department in Washington for approval to open up the hard drive of his computer under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
Concern about Moussaoui reached the top echelons of the FBI, prompting a flurry of unusual meetings between agents and bureau lawyers trying to secure a special intelligence warrant.
28 Access Denied - Michael Isikoff and Daniel Klaidman Newsweek October 1 2001 - http://www.msnbc.com/news/636610.asp?cp1=1
29 Flight School Warned F.B.I. of Suspicions Philip Shenon New York Times December 22 2001 - http://www.nytimes.com/2001/12/22/national/22PILO.html
30 Moussaoui Probe Pushed U.S. Limits Dan Eggen Washington Post January 31 2002 - http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn?pagename=article&node=&contentId=A64701-2002Jan30¬Found=true
A French intelligence report clearly implicated Moussaoui with an Algerian terrorist group and a trip to Afghanistan (where he is believed to have attended one of bin Ladens training camps). The French warned the US about his Al-Qaeda links on two occasions, September 1st and September 5th. According to an account of that meeting in Le Monde, U.S. participants said Moussaouis case was in the hands of the immigration authorities and was not a matter for the FBI.
The French also warned British MI5 intelligence about Moussasoui, highlighting the fact that the Abu Qatada meetings were also attended by Djamel Beghal, a 36-year-old Algerian who moved to London from France in 1997 and was arrested in Dubai in July 2001 for allegedly being part of a plot to blow up the American embassy in Paris. French requests to MI5 for Moussasoui to be placed under surveillance were completely ignored.
The Justice Department shut the lid on the case and refused the FISA request. Decent FBI agents who actually did their job correctly and wanted to stop terrorism were outraged. A last gasp effort to deport Moussaoui to Paris, where French authorities could hold him for as long as three days while they sought a legal way to search his laptop, was cut short by the events of September 11. After September 11, it emerged that Moussaoui had direct ties to Al-Qaeda operatives in Malaysia, home to the consulting firm where he claimed to work. The FBI now, albeit too late, had a search warrant for Moussaouis hard drive.
They discovered a flight simulation software program plus a multitude of information concerning wind currents, jetliners and crop-dusting airplanes. The information was considered sufficiently alarming that FBI officials requested the immediate downing of all crop-dusting aircraft, fearing that terrorists might be plotting to use them for a chemical or biological attack.31
31 FBI imposes new restrictions on crop-dusters CNN September 23 2001 - http://www.cnn.com/2001/US/09/23/inv.crop.dusters/
In mid-December 2001, Moussaoui became the first person indicted for involvement in the events of Sept. 11, charged with conspiring with bin Laden and Al-Qaeda. Although the trial is still ongoing, Moussaoui faces the death penalty. Many law enforcement officials insist that a more aggressive probe of Moussaouis activities, when syndicated with intelligence already in their possession, would have yielded sufficient information concerning the impending plot, that it could have been prevented.
George W. Bush Prevents Investigation of Al-Qaeda
President George W. Bush threatened FBI agents with arrest if they didnt cease investigation of Al-Qaeda two months prior to September 11. This was partly due to indirectly protecting a strategic interest in Saudi Arabian oil reserves, but serves to highlight the existence of an even darker agenda.
A secret FBI document, 199I WF213589, released from the Washington field office, was leaked by disgruntled FBI agents. It details how the FBI were ordered to discontinue investigation into members of the bin Laden family and WAMY (World Association of Muslim Youth) even though both networks had direct links to terrorism. Just weeks after the September 11 attacks, Pakistan and India expelled WAMY operatives with India stating that the Saudi-based WAMY was funding the militant Students Islamic Movement of India, which has provided support to Pakistani-backed terrorists linked to bombings in Kashmir.
The Philippines military has also accused WAMY of funding Muslim insurgency. It also emerged in a January 2002 BBC News-night feature that WAMY spoke glowingly of bin Laden in their own educational pamphlets and advocated his ideals. When confronted with this documentation, a WAMY representative became noticeably apprehensive and provided a poor defense of his organizations link with terrorist cells such as Al-Qaeda. This was after Nouredine Miladi, the head of WAMYs London office protested his organizations innocence by stating, we seek social change through education and cooperation.32
It appears as if that education was fundamentalist in nature and the only cooperation was between WAMY and known terror outfits.
FIG 5.3
[CAPTION: The FBI was ordered to back off investigation of members of the bin Laden family and WAMY who they were linked with.
WAMY was known to be funding terrorist cells as far back as the early 1990s.
This policy was enforced even more strictly after current President George W. Bush took office.]
Abdullah bin Laden and Omar bin Laden had helped run WAMYs operation right up to 2000 and beyond, Abdullah was the U.S. director. They lived together in Falls Church, just outside Washington, conveniently close to WAMYs basement offices. So why were the FBI, according to a high placed member of a US intelligence agency, told to back off investigating these groups?
I received a phone call from a high-placed member of a US intelligence agency. He tells me that while theres always been constraints on investigating Saudis, under George Bush its gotten much worse. After the elections, the agencies were told to back off investigating the Bin Ladens and Saudi royals, and that angered agents FBI headquarters told us they could not comment on our findings. A spokesman said: There are lots of things that only the intelligence community knows and that no-one else ought to know.33
Saudi Arabia, the supposed sworn enemy of Osama bin Laden, handed £200 million to bin Laden in protection money, in exchange for a promise that bin Laden would not attack Saudi targets. The nerve center of the Al-Qaeda network and its financial resources are based in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, two staunch allies of the US. Since its currently in vogue to support these two military dictatorships, their links to Al-Qaeda terrorism were and continue to be completely ignored.
32 FBI claims Bin Laden inquiry was frustrated - Greg Palast and David Pallister London Guardian November 7 2001- http://www.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4293682,00.html 33 Has someone been sitting on the FBI? Has someone been sitting on the FBI? Greg Palast BBC Newsnight November 6 2001 - http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/events/newsnight/1645527.stm
Fifteen of the nineteen alleged hijackers were Saudis. The CIAs cozy relationship with Saudi Arabia ensured that the FBIs attempted arrest of a Saudi Al-Qaeda cell in 1998 was prevented.
The group, led by two known terrorists, was issued with alias passports, allowing them to escape, by the Saudi royals, again the supposed sworn enemy of Osama bin Laden. This was reported by Robert Baer, a former case officer in the CIAs directorate of operations. He also learned of a spectacular terrorist operation that was being planned and would take place shortly. Baer passed the information on to the CIA who, in line with not wanting to upset the Saudis, did nothing. Baers January 2002 book, See No Evil, which further documents the CIAs lenience on Saudi-backed terrorists, contains heavily blacked out portions by order of, you guessed it, the CIA.
According to Bill Gertz of the Washington Times, only five CIA analysts were assigned to study Al-Qaeda at the time of the attack. This, despite a National Commission on Terrorism report released in 2000, which urged closer infiltration noting that there were no human intelligence sources inside groups like bin Ladens Al-Qaeda. This was not an intelligence failure, it was a policy directive.
Of course, the policy of holding intelligence agents back from going after Al-Qaeda was merely to keep the compartmentalized well-intentioned investigators in line. The inner circle of the FBI and CIA who were about to sit back and watch the attacks take place, were well aware of every development of the plot. They werent about to let anyone get in the way of it. Keep your friends close, keep your enemies even closer.
Another attempt to infiltrate Al-Qaeda was blocked just a few months before September 11 by high-level FBI officials,
A special agent in an FBI field office was told by a confidential informant that he had been invited to a commando training course at a camp operated by Osama bin Ladens al Qaeda organization in Afghanistan. According to two people with knowledge of the events, the agent relayed theinformants remarks to supervisors in the field office, who passed the information to FBI headquarters in Washington, where it was referred to the Osama bin Laden unit in the bureaus Counterterrorism Division.34
34 Missed Chance Brian Duffy - U.S. News Magazine June 10 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/missed_chance.htm
The Justice Department and the FBI were not interested in pursuing the opportunity because they deemed it illegal. Excuse me, but since when was the world of intelligence known for its honorable policy of playing by the book? The FBI and Justice Department didnt approve the operation because they had been told to protect Al-Qaeda or lose their careers and perhaps more.
Lawyer Michael Wildes offered FBI agents 14,000 documents relating to Saudi-backed terrorism after he represented one of the Khobar Towers bombers. The agents told Wildes they were not permitted to read the documents and blankly refused to obtain information that could have provided groundbreaking revelations concerning the international terrorist underground scene, including Al-Qaeda.
Wildes states,
Theyre (the FBI) cut off at the hip sometimes by supervisors or given shots that are being called from Washington at the highest levels...You see a difference between the rank-and-file counterintelligence agents, who are regarded by some as the motor pool of the FBI, who drive following diplomats, and the people who are getting the shots called at the highest level of our government, who have a different agenda - its unconscionable.35
One such agent, Robert Wright, grew indignant at this travesty and has filed a judicial complaint with the Justice Departments Office of Inspector General and Office of Professional Responsibility. The agent is represented by David Schippers, a pivotal player in the Clinton impeachment proceedings, being investigative counsel for the House Judiciary Committee. Schippers was responsible for all investigations under the impeachment inquiry.
Before September 11th, Schippers represented a group of FBI agents who were seething because their superiors had pulled them off terrorism related investigations. The agents told Schippers that there was going to be a massive attack on lower Manhattan by the end of the year. Schippers frantically tried to arrange a meeting with Attorney General John Ashcroft right up until a month before the attack. Ashcroft made it clear to his underlings that he was not interested in the information and Schippers was rebuffed again and again.
Wright was jointly represented by Judicial Watch, who stated,
Based on the evidence, the FBI Special Agent believes that if certain investigations had been allowed to run their courses, Osama bin Ladens network might have been prevented from committing the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks which resulted in the deaths of nearly 5,000 innocents.36
In a May 30 National Press Club conference, Robert Wright tearfully apologized to the relatives of the victims of 9/11 after he detailed the numerous instances where he had been impeded by his superiors from conducting terrorism investigations. However, these revelations only scratch the surface of what Wright has included in his unpublished book. He is under an FBI gag order which could see his imprisonment if he reveals highly sensitive information. Wright only went public in the first place to avoid being bumped off.
Compare his treatment to that of Colleen Rowley, general counsel in the FBI Minneapolis office, who was afforded free speech and whistle-blower protection. Rowley released a watered down report full of intelligence failures and to be sure she was purposefully brought out to act as a shill when the prior knowledge issue broke in the mainstream media in May 2002. For the first few days after the story broke, the government was in deep trouble, scrabbling around for excuses.
35 Ibid
36 ACTIVE FBI SPECIAL AGENT FILES COMPLAINT CONCERNING OBSTRUCTED FBI ANTI-TERRORIST INVESTIGATIONS Judicial Watch November 14 2001 - http://www.judicialwatch.org/1075.shtml
At that point they hyped up Rowley and her information acted as a steam valve the government were able to manage the story and it dissipated soon thereafter. Judicial Watch Chairman Larry Klayman described Rowleys evidence as, a cover your derriere, PR maneuver.37 Wright told of terrorist training camps in Chicago and Kansas with links to the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that he was on the verge of closing down in 1998.
The FBI higher-ups took him off the case. He discussed money laundering operations with links to Hamas (Likud) and Al-Qaeda that he was on the verge of cracking before again being taken off the case, The motive for this conduct his simple and quite disturbing, Wright charged. He said that by preventing the criminal prosecution of the subjects of their intelligence gathering these intelligence agents avoided the new and additional work that would be required... He said once these agents had a case going, they would milk it for years, not taking on any additional work.
They regarded Wright and others who wanted to prosecute suspects as a threat to their job security. The net result, according to the lawsuit, was that the FBI was merely gathering intelligence so they would know who to arrest when a terrorist attack occurred.38
Exactly a year after the attacks on New York and Washington, Judicial Watch issued a press release which stated that the FBI were still preventing prosecution of terrorists,
SA Wright points to recent misconduct and falsifications of wiretap warrant applications by FBI agents (signed-off by the former FBI Director, Louis Freeh) to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Court. Prior to September 11th, SA Wright alleged FBI intelligence agents lied and hid vital records from criminal agents for the purpose of obstructing his criminal investigation of the terrorists in order to protect their subjects, and prolong their intelligence operations. SA Wright was stunned to learn recently that some of the FBI intelligence agents that had stalled and obstructed his criminal investigations of terrorists in Chicago had also lied to the judges of the FISA Court in Washington, DC.39
In addition, the former head of the American visa bureau in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Michael Springman, was consistently ordered by high level State Department officials to issue visas to unqualified applicants. These unqualified applicants were terrorists operating on behalf of Osama bin Laden. Despite bitter complaints to the General Accounting Office, the Inspector Generals office and the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, in the same vein as Sen. Bob Graham, he was stonewalled.
37 Whistleblower Complains of FBI Obstruction Ian Christopher McCaleb Fox News May 30 2002 -http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,54070,00.html 38 FBI agent: I was stymied in terror probe Nicholas M. Horrock United Press International May 30 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/FBI_agent_I_was_stymied_in_terror_probe.htm 39 FBI AGENT ROBERT WRIGHT SAYS FBI AGENTS ASSIGNED TO INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS CONTINUE TO PROTECT TERRORISTS FROM CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS AND PROSECUTIONS Judicial Watch September 11 2002 - http://www.judicialwatch.org/2469.shtml
The Pet Hijackers
Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi, both of whom were part of the hijack team that took over flight AA77 and crashed it into the Pentagon, were named as terrorists by the CIA nearly two years before September 11. Accordingly, they were issued with multi-level visas which enabled them to open bank accounts, obtain drivers licenses, enroll in flight schools and leave and re-enter the USA at will. When Almihdhars visa expired in June 2001, after he had been linked to the bombers of the USS Cole, the State Department issued him a new one.
Both hijackers, while being closely monitored by the CIA, were allowed to leave the States to attend a January 2000 Al-Qaeda meeting in Kuala Lumpur. Surveillance was then passed over to the Malaysian Special Branch who compiled a detailed dossier on the two individuals which was then passed back to the CIA as al-Mihdhar and al-Hazmi re-entered the United States. Yet astonishingly, the CIA did nothing with this information.
Agency officials didnt tell the INS, which could have turned them away at the border, nor did they notify the FBI, which could have covertly tracked them to find out their mission.40
So the CIA identify two known terrorists, issue them with visas, allow them to leave the country to attend a terrorist meeting, and allow them back into the country without apprehension. Lower level FBI agents were astounded at this negligent policy. They charged that if the CIA had passed the information on, they would have been able to crack the entire nineteen-man hijack plot that unfolded on 9/11. Again - the mainstream media report all this and the government admits to it. Yet the spin is always we screwed up it was an intelligence failure if this is the case then why has not one senior CIA or FBI official been fired as a result?
According to an unnamed FBI agent, he too had identified the future hijackers as terrorists long before September 11 but when he sought permission to track them down within the U.S. his superiors told him to cease his investigation and aggressively shut the lid on the case.
The irate agent chillingly retorted,
Whatever has happened to this some day someone will die and wall or not, the public will not understand why we were not more effective and throwing every resource we had at certain problems. Lets hope the FBIs national security law unit will stand behind their decisions then, especially since the biggest threat to us now, Osama Bin Laden, is getting the most protection.41
Furthermore, in another deplorable development, it emerged that after the Al-Qaeda summit in Malaysia, which the CIA viewed on videotape, al-Mihdhar and al-Hazmi moved in with an FBI informant who helped them open bank accounts, enabling them to subsequently enroll in flight school training in preparation for the 9/11 plot.
40 The Hijackers We Let Escape - Michael Isikoff and Daniel Klaidman Newsweek June 4 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/The_Hijackers_We_Let_Escape.htm
41 The ignored warning Sunday Times of London September 22 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/the_ignored_warning.htm
Upon leaving Malaysia, Almihdhar and Alhazmi went to San Diego, where they took flight-school lessons. In September 2000, the two moved into the home of a Muslim man who had befriended them at the local Islamic Center. The landlord regularly prayed with them and even helped one open a bank account. He was also, sources tell NEWSWEEK, a tested undercover asset who had been working closely with the FBI office in San Diego on terrorism cases related to Hamas.42
The FBI office in San Diego knew that the terrorists were living with the informant. The case agent called the informant on several occasions and was always forewarned when the two were in the room and able to hear the conversation. The terrorists Saudi nationality, in alliance with President Bushs back off directive, ensured al-Mihdhar and al-Hazmi were left alone. This was a full year before 9/11 and is yet another smoking gun to confirm the plot could have been unraveled if not for criminal protection of terrorists by the upper echelons of the CIA and FBI.
Another of the hijackers who was allegedly (we have to use that term because there is no proof any of the named hijackers were on board the planes) on Flight 77 that hit the Pentagon, was Hani Hanjour. From 1996 onwards Hanjour was enrolled in flight school training in Phoenix Arizona. It was here that a paid FBI informant, Aukai Collins, was asked to monitor Hanjour and his fellow Arab associates.
Collins maintained his work entailed that the FBI had an extensive dossier on Hanjour, Collins said the FBI knew Hanjour lived in Phoenix, knew his exact address, his phone number and even what car he drove.
They knew everything about the guy, said Collins When I said theres this short, skinny Arab guy whos part of this crowd, drives such-and-such a car, I assumed that they would then, you know, start tracing him and see who his contacts were, he said.43
So we know the FBI were closely monitoring Hanjour for at least five years before 9/11.
What is more, they also knew that Hanjour was conducting test flights in the vicinity of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in the months leading up to the attack, Law enforcement officials tell (CBS reporter) Stewart they have now confirmed that Hanjour rented small aircrafts in the Maryland and New York areas three weeks before the attacks. They say he made practice flights using those aircrafts in the vicinity of both the Pentagon and the World Trade Center towers. The purpose of the flights, officials surmise, was to study landmarks and examine possible approach routes to the targets.44
42 The Informant Who Lived With The Hijackers Michael Isikoff - Newsweek September 16 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/the_informant_who_lived_with_the_hijackers.htm
43 FBI Was Warned of Sept. 11 Hijacker John McWethy - ABC News May 23 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/FBI_Warned_of_Sept_11_Hijacker.htm
44 Sept. 11 Hijacker Made Test Flights Jim Stewart CBS News October 9 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/sept_11_hijacker_made_test_flights.htm
Let us recap. We have an Arab enrolled at a flight school who the FBI see as dangerous enough to justify monitoring him for five years. They know where he lives, his phone number and even what car he drives. The FBI thinks he could possibly be a member of Al-Qaeda. This same suspected terrorist then charters a plane and goes snooping in and around the WTC and Pentagon. A three-year old could connect these dots, even independently of the voluminous other evidence confirming the WTC and Pentagon as targets.
Hanjour wasnt the only hijacker to perform a 9/11 dry run right in the face of American intelligence. Actor James Woods took a flight from Boston on August 1 2001. Once in the air, Woods noticed a group of Arab men who had no hand luggage acting strangely. Woods said the FBI had warned him not to disclose details but he went on the record as saying that at least two of the four individuals fit the description of two of the named hijackers (one possibly being Atta).
Their behavior suggested to Woods that the men were planning something. Woods informed the flight attendant who eventually informed the FAA. The FAA, who were warned from numerous different sources that a plot involving hijacking was likely to occur in 2001, did nothing with the information. They refused to pass it on to any law enforcement or intelligence agency.
The FBI only investigated the incident after September 11.
Common Knowledge
If a freshman school kid knew about the imminent September 11th attack, then how on earth could the biggest intelligence agencies in the world not know? An MSNBC reporter visited a Brooklyn school to disprove an unreliable urban myth but actually confirmed an amazing story.
On September 6 five days before the attack Antoinette DiLorenzo, who teaches English as a second language to a class of Pakistani immigrants, led a class discussion about world events. She asked a freshman (his name has been withheld): What are you looking at? The youth was peering out the third floor window toward lower Manhattan. After he made the remark about the World Trade Center not being there next week, the teacher didnt immediately think much of it, though it stuck in her mind.45
Note that the remark does not just broadly state that the towers will be attacked, but specifically that they will disappear. This came in the middle of a heated class debate at the New Utrecht High School. The boy remains unnamed, the only details being that he was a 15-year-old Palestinian. It later emerged that the same boy made a further prediction after September 11. He predicted that a plane would crash in New York on November 12. That very day, American Airlines flight 587 crashed in Queens after both its engines fell off its wings in an accident.
The FBI was told of the boys warning before the accident but didnt follow up on it.
45 Trade Center warning baffles police Jonathan Alter MSNBC October 12 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/Trade_Center_warning_baffles_police.htm
Jeffrey Scott Shapiro, the journalist who broke the story before MSNBC got hold of it, was able to confirm that the FBI were investigating two other strikingly similar predictions of catastrophe on 9/11, On Sept. 10, 2001, a sixth-grade student of Middle Eastern descent in Jersey City, N.J., said something that alarmed his teacher at Martin Luther King Jr. Elementary School.
Essentially, he warned her to stay away from lower Manhattan because something bad was going to happen, said Sgt. Edgar Martinez, deputy director of police services for the Jersey City Police Department.
Initially, the Jersey City rumor was met with some controversy. The New York Times called it an unsubstantiated rumor, and both the Daily News and the Jersey Journal quoted a board of education official who denied that the boy had made any reference to the Sept. 11 attacks at all. Despite their reports, Martinez said the FBI-JTTF took over the matter for further investigation.
On Sept. 11, NYPD school-safety officers interrogated a Middle Eastern boy at Health Opportunities High School in the Bronx who had made similar comments that alarmed his teacher. Catie Marshall said the boy told his peers something as the school was being evacuated on Sept. 11. He warned them not to ride any city buses because he had been told at his mosque the week before to stay off all public transportation for a while, said one NYPD officer from the investigating 40th Precinct. He said it wouldnt be safe. The FBI-JTTF since has taken over the matter.46
46 Prior Knowledge of Sept. 11 Not Just Urban Legend - Jeffrey Scott Shapiro Insight Magazine September 10 2002 - available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/prior_knowledge_of_sept_11_not_just_urban_legend.htm
Shapiro learned that many other students attending the New Utrecht school had approached teachers with their own stories of prior knowledge and large numbers had conveniently decided to bring their cameras to school on September 11. Shapiro tried in vain to have his story covered in the mass media. The New York Times and many others refused to touch it and Shapiros last word on the matter was that the FBI had shut down the case.
This is just one of numerous smoking guns to suggest that the Muslim community across the world was aware of the impending terrorist attack. Islamic calendars circulated in the months preceding September 2001 depicting a plane crashing into lower Manhattan. The FBI confirmed that many Middle Easterners were warned not to go near lower Manhattan on September 11.
The plot was even the subject of everyday street gossip in Cairo Egypt in August 2001. Everybody knew. Are we to believe the most sophisticated intelligence agencies in the world didnt? New York police officers investigating these rumors, including evidence that a large number of Arabs working in the WTC didnt show up for work that day, stated that leads of prior knowledge were so overwhelming that they didnt know where to start.
Osama bin Laden himself publicly stated that all his associates should return to Afghanistan by September 10.
FIG 5.4
[CAPTION: There are countless examples of posters, advertisements, album covers and television shows
which depicted an attack on the World Trade Center before September 11 2001.
This CD cover circulated in July 2001.]
An anonymous listener to a Cayman Islands radio station wrote a letter two weeks before the attack which was passed on to a Cayman government official. The letter stated that agents of Osama bin Laden had entered the US and were about to carry out an attack via an airline or airlines.
Some of the alleged hijackers were reported to have attended strip clubs the night before the attack (theres that staunch fundamentalism and highly sophisticated planning in evidence), where they bragged to the bartender that Americas going to see blood, wait till tomorrow.47
Marwan Al Shehhi, who piloted the second plane into the World Trade Center, could not contain himself about his role in the plot, bragging to anyone that would listen of his upcoming martyrdom while living in Hamburg, Germany. This came to light during the trial of Mounir El Motassadeq, an alleged Al-Qaeda conspirator. Al Shehhi told a librarian that thousands would die in an attack on the World Trade Center. This didnt seem to concern the CIA at the time.
A 29-year-old Iranian deportee phoned US police and the White House from his German cell to warn of an imminent attack on the World Trade Center. The Lower Saxony Justice Ministry has confirmed the man warned of the impending series of terrorist attacks, but had not been believed. They refused to confirm exactly when the calls were made, but it was before September 11th. The man warned of imminent attacks on the World Trade Center that would change the world order the White House hung up.
This is another example of how virtually the entire Arab world was aware of the fact that the WTC had been targeted for immediate destruction. Time after time, U.S. authorities refused to follow up on the information.
Warnings From Israel
The Israeli intelligence agency Mossad warned the CIA and the FBI in August 2001 that terrorists linked to Osama bin Laden were planning large scale terrorist attacks on highly visible targets of commerce and military, to take place imminently. The CIA completely ignored the warning despite the fact that it correlated with similar urgent warnings from a multitude of other sources, The Telegraph has learnt that two senior experts with Mossad, the Israeli military intelligence service, were sent to Washington in August to alert the CIA and FBI to the existence of a cell of as many of 200 terrorists said to be preparing a big operation.48
The U.S. Justice Department, from March 2001 onwards, made a series of arrests of Israelis. It later transpired that these were Mossad agents and had prior knowledge of the September 11th attacks. Many of these spies were suspected of being tasked with the logistics of preparing the September 11 attacks.
47 Warning signs Chris Hansen Dateline NBC September 23 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/warning_signs.htm
48 Israeli security issued urgent warning to CIA of large-scale terror attacks - David Wastell London Telegraph September 16 2002 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/israeli_security_issued_urgent_warning_to_cia_of_large_scale_terror_attacks.html
If the Justice Department arrested spies with prior knowledge of 9/11 in March 2001, then the Justice Department also had prior knowledge of 9/11 in March 2001.
Another Israeli link concerns the instant messaging company, Odigo. Two hours before Flight 11 crashed into the north tower, two employees at Odigo received text messages stating that an attack on the World Trade Center was about to occur. Nothing was done, Alex Diamandis, vice president of sales and marketing, confirmed that workers in Odigos research and development and international sales office in Israel received a warning from another Odigo user approximately two hours prior to the first attack.
Diamandis said the sender of the instant message was not personally known to the Odigo employees. Even though the company usually protects the privacy of users, the employees recorded the Internet protocol address of the messages sender to facilitate his or her identification. Soon after the terrorist attacks on New York, the Odigo employees notified their management, who contacted Israeli security services. In turn, the FBI was informed of the instant message warning. FBI officials were not immediately available for comment today.49
49 Instant Messages To Israel Warned Of WTC Attack - Brian McWilliams Washington Post September 27 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/instant_messages_to_israel_warned_of_attack
Leaders of the Jewish community in Argentina were also warned that a massive attack on America was about to take place from what they described as a reliable intelligence source. The alert was more specific than the usual chatter and was passed on to American intelligence, who didnt treat it with much urgency even after similar warnings had emanated from the Argentine embassy a few weeks before the October 2000 U.S.S. Cole bombing.
As an aside, yes, the U.S. government had prior knowledge of the Cole bombing and many intelligence agents, such as Kie Fallis of the Pentagons Defense Intelligence Agency, resigned in disgust. Despite numerous red flags that an attack using a small boat was about to take place, the government refused to put out an alert that would have prevented a tragedy that claimed the lives of seventeen Americans.
Warnings From Egypt
Egyptian intelligence was credited with helping to halt the July 2001 plot to slam an airliner into the G8 summit in Genoa. Their warnings were grave enough to prompt authorities to position snipers on the roof of the conference buildings.
Twelve days before September 11, they were again in contact with the CIA to alert the Americans to an impending terrorist strike. Like numerous other foreign countries, the Egyptians had managed to infiltrate an agent into Al-Qaedas inner circle. The agent learned of an immediate plan to attack America and was able to ascertain that commercial jetliners would be involved.
The information was passed on to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, who in turn opened communication with the CIA,
We expected that something was going to happen and informed the Americans. We told them, Mubarak said.
He did not mention a U.S. response.50 The Egyptians tried desperately, with no help from the CIA, to learn more of the plot so as to halt it. Again, taken on its own this piece of information amounts to nothing more than a wasted opportunity. Add it to the fact that the CIA had close tabs on many of the actual hijackers who were being briefed directly on the terror plot and a different picture emerges.
Warnings From Russia
Dr. Tatyana Koryagina is a senior research fellow in the Institute of Macroeconomic Researches subordinated to Russian Ministry of Economic Development (Minekonom). She is reportedly close to President Putins inner circle of advisors. Her credibility soared after she accurately predicted the collapse of the Russian economy in 1998.
In a July 21 Pravda cover story, Koryagina outlined how a shadow organization was about to attack America in order to act as a catalyst for worldwide economic destruction. Out of this chaos, this organization would establish itself as the new world government. Koryagina was undoubtedly talking about the New World Order.
She estimated a date of August 19, just a few weeks before the WTC attack,
Pravda: All the participants at the hearings stated that America is a huge financial pyramid which will crash soon. Still, it is hard to understand how this could happen in the first and richest country of the world without a war, without missile or bomb strikes? Koryagina: Besides bombs and missiles, there are other kinds of weaponry, much more destructive ones. ... Pravda: Well, economic theory. But how it is possible for you to give an exact date [for the U.S. crash] August 19?Koryagina: The U.S. is engaged in a mortal economic game. The known history of civilization is merely the visible part of the iceberg. There is a shadow economy, shadow politics and also a shadow history, known to conspirologists. There are [unseen] forces acting in the world, unstoppable for [most powerful] countries and even continents. Pravda: Just these forces intend to smash America on August 19? Koryagina: There are international super-state and super-government groups. In accordance with tradition, the mystical and religious components play extremely important roles in human history. One must take into account the shadow economy, shadow politics and the religious component, while predicting the development of the present financial situation. 50 Egypt Leader Says He Warned America Joe Panossian Associated Press December 7 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/egypt_leader_says_he_warned_america.html Pravda: Still, I dont understand what could be done to this giant country [the U.S.], whose budget is calculated in the trillions of dollars.Koryagina: It is possible to do anything to the U.S. ... whose total debt has reached $26 trillion. Generally, the Western economy is at the boiling point now. Shadow financial actives of $300 trillion are hanging over the planet. At any moment, they could fall on any stock exchange and cause panic and crash. The recent crisis in Southeast Asia, which touched Russia, was a rehearsal. Pravda: What is the sense of smashing just America? Koryagina: The U.S. has been chosen as the object of financial attack because the financial center of the planet is located there. The effect will be maximal. The strike waves of economic crisis will spread over the planet instantly and will remind us of the blast of a huge nuclear bomb.51
Pravda: All the participants at the hearings stated that America is a huge financial pyramid which will crash soon. Still, it is hard to understand how this could happen in the first and richest country of the world without a war, without missile or bomb strikes?
Koryagina: Besides bombs and missiles, there are other kinds of weaponry, much more destructive ones. ...
Pravda: Well, economic theory. But how it is possible for you to give an exact date [for the U.S. crash] August 19?Koryagina: The U.S. is engaged in a mortal economic game. The known history of civilization is merely the visible part of the iceberg. There is a shadow economy, shadow politics and also a shadow history, known to conspirologists. There are [unseen] forces acting in the world, unstoppable for [most powerful] countries and even continents.
Pravda: Just these forces intend to smash America on August 19? Koryagina: There are international super-state and super-government groups. In accordance with tradition, the mystical and religious components play extremely important roles in human history. One must take into account the shadow economy, shadow politics and the religious component, while predicting the development of the present financial situation. 50 Egypt Leader Says He Warned America Joe Panossian Associated Press December 7 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/egypt_leader_says_he_warned_america.html
Pravda: Still, I dont understand what could be done to this giant country [the U.S.], whose budget is calculated in the trillions of dollars.Koryagina: It is possible to do anything to the U.S. ... whose total debt has reached $26 trillion. Generally, the Western economy is at the boiling point now. Shadow financial actives of $300 trillion are hanging over the planet. At any moment, they could fall on any stock exchange and cause panic and crash. The recent crisis in Southeast Asia, which touched Russia, was a rehearsal.
Pravda: What is the sense of smashing just America? Koryagina: The U.S. has been chosen as the object of financial attack because the financial center of the planet is located there. The effect will be maximal. The strike waves of economic crisis will spread over the planet instantly and will remind us of the blast of a huge nuclear bomb.51
51 Expert: Russia Knew in Advance, Encouraged Citizens to Cash Out Dollars - Alexandr Nemets Newsmax September 17 2001 - http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2001/9/16/103951.shtml
In a separate interview, Koryagina expanded on who exactly the attacking group was. She described it as a criminal fusion of modern day secret societies and Mafia interests with assets totaling $300 trillion. Koryagina identified scientology and an elite cabal know as The Dead Head as two organizations that use their influence to insert operatives at the highest level of governments. They have no qualms about killing large numbers of people to further their agenda. It is important to emphasize that Koryagina isnt what the media would call a conspiracy nut shes an economic advisor to the President of Russia.
Delmart Edward Mike Vreeland, an American citizen whose claims to being a US Naval Lieutenant assigned to the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) are being increasingly corroborated in open court, has been in a Canadian jail since December 6, 2000. On August 11 or 12 of 2001, the date is uncertain, after trying to verbally alert his Canadian jailers to the coming World Trade Center attacks, he wrote down key information and sealed it in an envelope which he then had placed in jailers custody.
Canadian authorities do not dispute this event. The letter specifically listed a number of targets including the Sears Towers, the World Trade Center, the White House, the Pentagon, the World Bank, the Canadian parliament building in Ottawa and the Royal Bank in Toronto. A chilling sentence follows the list of targets, Let one happen. Stop the rest!!!
Vreeland obtained this information while conducting clandestine work in Moscow. The Russian government and FSB were also aware of the information which is why, prior to September 11, Russian media and officials encouraged citizens to cash out U.S. dollars pending an economic collapse there after an attack.
Warnings From Afghanistan
Knowing that any attack on America by Al-Qaeda would entail an invasion of Afghanistan, the Taliban foreign minister, Wakil Ahmad Muttawakil, sent an aide to inform the American consulate in Pakistan and the United Nations that he had learned of a looming large scale Al-Qaeda plot to attack America.
The minister was deeply worried that the US military would react with deadly vengeance against Afghanistan. As he put it, al-Qaeda, the Talebans guests, were going to destroy the guest house.52 Muttawakil had gleaned the information from the leader of the Islamic movement of Uzbekistan, Tohir Yuldash, who had found refuge in Afghanistan and had good links with Al-Qaeda.
As we shall learn, at the very same time, July 2001, the Americans and the UN were meeting in Berlin to finalize the specifics of an invasion of Afghanistan to take place by early October. For the act of trying to warn the UN and the U.S. in order to save lives, Muttawakil was arrested and is now in a U.S. military torture camp.
The CIA Meets bin Laden
From July 4th-14th 2001, Osama bin Laden was being treated for kidney infection at the American Hospital, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Bin Laden arrived by air via Quetta, Pakistan accompanied by his doctor and a close aide, possibly Ayman el Zawahiri, a leader of Egypts Islamic Jihad, and was treated in the urology department headed by Dr. Terry Callaway. There, on multiple occasions, he met with CIA station Chief Larry Mitchell. Bin Laden gave Mitchell precise information regarding an imminent attack on the U.S.53
This was originally reported by the respected French daily Le Figaro and later picked up by United Press International. Although the CIA denied the report Le Figaro refused to retract it and said their French Secret Service and American Hospital staff sources were reliable. This is one of several examples where French intelligence, furious with their US and UK counterparts for treating terrorists as friends, have blown the whistle and commendably so. The International Herald Tribune rubbished the report but Radio France International was able to confirm its veracity.54
FIG 5.5
[CAPTION: The American Hospital in Dubai, united Arab Emirates scene of a July 2001 meeting between Osama bin Laden and the CIA.]
Bin Laden also met with numerous members of his family, who left the U.S. by chartered flights after September 11th with the full blessings of the U.S. government. This debunks the myth that bin Laden is the black sheep of his family and raises ever more heated questions as to why the Bush administration is deeply connected to the bin Laden family via the Carlyle Group, which well discuss later.
52 Taleban warned US of huge attack Kate Clark BBC September 7 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/taliban_warned_us_of_huge_attack.htm
53 CIA agent met bin Laden in July Toby Rose London Evening Standard October 31 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/cia_agent_met_bin_laden_in_july.html
54 Radio reports new CIA-Bin Laden details - Elizabeth Bryant United Press International November 1 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/radio_reports_new_cia_bin_laden_details.html
A 2000 Clinton presidential executive order was still in effect and mandated that bin Laden should have been killed on the spot. Bin Laden was allowed to leave of his own free will while the CIA agent bragged to his friends that he had met the elusive Saudi Sheik.
Le Figaro came to the only conclusion possible, namely that bin Laden was still working for the CIA in accordance with a certain American policy. They referred to the fact that bin Ladens Kenya and Tanzania embassy bombing operatives were supported and armed by the Americans, Inquiring into the attacks of August 1998 against the American embassies of Nairobi (Kenya) and Dares-Salaam (Tanzania), the investigators of the FBI discovered that the traces left by the loads come from a military explosive of the American army and that this explosive was delivered three years before to Arab Afghans, the famous international brigades of volunteers, engaged at the side of Oussama Ben Laden lasting the war of Afghanistan against the Soviet army. (Translation)55
In addition to this, Ali Mohamed, an Egyptian born US citizen who helped organize funds for Al-Qaeda and was instrumental in the planning of the Nairobi Embassy bombing, was working for American intelligence at the same time. Mohamed spent years as an FBI informant while training Osama bin Ladens bodyguards and Al-Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan and Sudan. In 1984 he was identified as a terrorist by the CIA.
I presume this is why he was issued a visa and became an American citizen, subsequently joining the army and being posted to Fort Bragg, N.C., home of the elite Special Forces. Mohameds commanding officer t. Col. Robert Anderson noticed his suspicious behavior, Anderson said he wrote detailed reports aimed at getting Army intelligence to investigate Mohamedand have him court-martialed and deportedbut the reports were ignored Anderson said all this convinced him that Mohamed was sponsored by a U.S. intelligence service. I assumed the CIA, he said.56
55 The CIA Met Ben Laden in July (translation) - Alexandra Richard Le Figaro October 31 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/le_figaro_cia_would_have_met_ben_laden_in_july.html
56 Al Qaeda terrorist worked with FBI: Ex-Silicon Valley resident plotted embassy attacks Lance Williams and Eric McCormick San Francisco Chronicle November 4 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/terrorist_worked_with_fbi.html
With the protection of the U.S. government, Mohamed helped smuggle in Al-Qaeda terrorists to the country via Canada. After openly bragging that he loved bin Laden and believed in him Mohamed helped plan the logistics for the embassy bombing. It was only after lying to a U.S. grand jury investigating the embassy bombings that he was finally arrested.
Bin Laden meeting with the CIA just before September 11 is one of the biggest red flags imaginable. Suffice to say, when the mass media ask what did the President know? they do not dare bring up this kind of information.
Warnings on the Eve of the Attack
Newsweek twice reported that top Pentagon officials had got a warning of the impending attack on September 10th and cancelled their flights for the next day. This confirms that these officials knew both the locations of the imminent attack and the method of using jetliners as bombs.
In their September 13 issue, two days after the attack, Newsweek calmly stated,
Could the bombers have been stopped? NEWSWEEK has learned that while U.S. intelligence received no specific warning, the state of alert had been high during the past two weeks, and a particularly urgent warning may have been received the night before the attacks, causing some top Pentagon brass to cancel a trip. Why that same information was not available to the 266 people who died aboard the four hijacked commercial aircraft may become a hot topic on the Hill.57
Could the bombers have been stopped?
NEWSWEEK has learned that while U.S. intelligence received no specific warning, the state of alert had been high during the past two weeks, and a particularly urgent warning may have been received the night before the attacks, causing some top Pentagon brass to cancel a trip. Why that same information was not available to the 266 people who died aboard the four hijacked commercial aircraft may become a hot topic on the Hill.57
It never did become a hot topic for obvious reasons.
They reiterated the report eleven days later. Note that these admissions were just seamlessly buried in general stories regarding the response to September 11 - the truth hidden in plain view,
On Sept. 10, NEWSWEEK has learned, a group of top Pentagon officials suddenly canceled travel plans for the next morning, apparently because of security concerns.58
The National Security Agency intercepted two messages on September 10th indicating a significant event was to take place the next day. The messages were in Arabic and stated, tomorrow is zero hour and the match begins tomorrow. The majority of communication took place between Khalid Shaikh, one of the chief 9/11 planners, and Mohammed Atta, the lead hijacker. NSA intercepts also detected multiple phone calls from Abu Zubaida, bin Ladens chief of operations, to the United States. Over thirty messages in all had been received by the NSA from May to September, indicating an imminent attack.
The NSA claimed they didnt have any details regarding the origin or location of these messages yet, as James Bamford has reported, a couple of years previously the NSA had cracked both Al-Qaedas and Osama bin Ladens encrypted communications technology that were initially given to them by the Clinton administration.
Furthermore the NSA stated, You know how many times we hear things much more serious than that? Lots of times. They claimed the intercepts were of no significance.
57 Weve Hit the Targets Michael Hirsh Newsweek September 13 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/weve_hit_the_targets.html
58 Bush: Were at War - Evan Thomas and Mark Hosenball Newsweek September 24 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/pentagon_officials_safe.htm
If this was the case then why, after the story broke, did the FBI begin threatening Senators for information as to who leaked the story? The Washington Post reported, FBI agents have questioned 60 congressional staff members and officials at the CIA, the Defense Department and the National Security Agency. They are trying to find the source of news stories that quoted Arabic communications making vague references to an impending attack on the United States, which were intercepted by the NSA on Sept. 10 but not translated until Sept. 12.59
Senators and Congressmen were furious at the fact that they were strongly advised to take polygraph tests, citing constitutional separation of powers between the legislative and executive branches of government. Most refused to cooperate. So if these vague references happened all the time then why the zealous hunt for the source of the leak?
Mayor of San Francisco Willie Brown was set to fly into New York on the morning of September 11. However, he got a call late September 10th advising against flying due to a security threat.
Exactly where the call came from is a bit of a mystery. The mayor would say only that it came from my security people at the airport.60 Brown awoke on September 11th to scenes of the WTC on fire and his flight was obviously cancelled.
Who exactly warned Mayor Willie Brown and why didnt the people on the hijacked planes get the same warning? Brown evaded many journalists questions on the story and now refuses to comment any further on the subject.
The author Salman Rushdie had an almost identical experience,
The author Salman Rushdie believes that US authorities knew of an imminent terrorist strike when they banned him from taking internal flights in Canada and the US only a week before the attacks. On September 3 the Federal Aviation Authority made an emergency ruling to prevent Mr Rushdie from flying unless airlines complied with strict and costly security measures. Mr Rushdie told The Times that the airlines would not upgrade their security.61
59 FBI Leak Probe Irks Lawmakers - Dana Priest Washington Post August 2 2002 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/fbi_leak_probe_irks_lawmakers.htm 60 Willie Brown got low-key early warning about air travel Philip Matier & Andrew Ross San Francisco Chronicle September 12 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/willie_brown_got_low_key_early_warning.html 61 Rushdies air ban James Doran London Times September 27 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/bin_ladens_trail_rushdie.html
Insider Trading
A record number of put options, speculation that the stock of a company will fall, were placed on American and United Airlines in the days preceding September 11th. This despite a September 10th Reuters report stating airline stocks set to fly.
Between September 6 and 7, the Chicago Board Options Exchange saw purchases of 4,744 put options on United Airlines, but only 396 call options. On September 10, 4,516 put options on American Airlines were bought on the Chicago exchange, compared to only 748 calls, Were criminals responsible for the sharp rise in credit card transactions that moved through some computer systems at the WTC shortly before the planes hit the twin towers?62 So speculated Reuters, who went on to report that the insider traders must have known exact times that the planes were going to crash into the World Trade Center to profit in the hundreds of millions.
The investigation as to which criminals benefited from advance knowledge of the terrorist attack led straight to Alex Brown/Deutsche Bank - chaired up until 1998 by executive director of the CIA Buzzy Krongard. Until 1997, Mr Krongard was chairman of Alex Brown Inc, Americas oldest investment banking firm. Alex Brown was acquired by Bankers Trust, which in turn was bought by Deutsche Bank.
His last post before resigning to take his senior role in the CIA was to head Bankers Trust Alex Browns private client business, dealing with the accounts and investments of wealthy customers around the world.63
The stocks of companies with offices in the World Trade Center, such as Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co were also subject to suspicious short-selling, Merrill Lynch & Co., with headquarters near the Twin Towers, saw 12,215 October $45 put options bought in the four trading days before the attacks; the previous average volume in those shares had been 252 contracts per day [a 1200% increase!]. When trading resumed, Merrill¹s shares fell from $46.88 to $41.50; assuming that 11,000 option contracts were bought by insiders, their profit would have been about $5.5 million.64
It is widely known that the CIA monitors the stock market in real time using the highly sophisticated PROMIS software. Any unusual spikes in activity are treated as a possible prelude to a major worldwide event. As exhaustively documented by journalist Michael Ruppert, the CIA has an uncanny knack of overwhelmingly recruiting agents who have either worked in Wall Street or have close connections with Wall Street. The upper echelons of the two would have orchestrated a conspiracy of this size.
To date, nobody has been arrested in direct connection with this issue. There were charges leveled against Amr Ibrahim Elgindy, an Egyptian financial advisor but in my estimation Elgindy was the scapegoat the U.S. government needed to bury the story.
62 German Firm Probes Final World Trade Center Deals - Erik Kirschbaum Reuters December 16 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/german_firm_probes_final_world_trade.html 63 Mystery of Terror Insider Dealers Chris Blackhurst London Independent October 14 2001 available at http://www.propagandamatrix.com/mystery_of_terror_insider_dealers.htm
64 Suppressed Details of Criminal Insider Trading Lead Directly Into the CIAs Highest Ranks Michael C. Ruppert From the Wilderness Publications October 9 2001 -http://www.fromthewilderness.com/free/ww3/10_09_01_krongard.html
Elgindy tried to liquidate his childrens $300,000 (£204,000) trust account on September 10, while informing his stockbroker that the Dow Jones, then at 9,600, would fall to below 3,000, Assistant U.S. Attorney Ken Breen told a judge in San Diego. Perhaps Mr. Elgindy had preknowledge of the Sept. 11 attacks. Instead of trying to report it, he tried to profit from it.65
65 Shady Trader Eyed For 9/11 Tip David K. Li and Kati Cornell New York Post May 25 2002 available at http://propagandamatrix.com/shady_trader_eyed_for_911_tip.htm
Elgindy was able to forecast the market drop because two FBI agents, Jeffrey Royer and Lynn Wingate, whom he had bribed, were providing him with confidential agency material. Royer and Wingate were subject to an FBI search warrant upon which classified information was found. Therefore, we dont know if this information was directly related to the events of September 11.
Taking into account that Elgindy was already known as a ruthless short-seller on Wall Street, I think its safe to assume that his involvement in the 9/11 insider trading scam was deliberately engineered to veil the role of the CIA and Alex Brown/Deutsche Bank. We are promised that the investigation is ongoing so dont hold your breath.
But what about ?
One of the most common replies to the issue of prior knowledge and government involvement is how can you carry out such a massive operation and not be caught? the answer is that they have been caught. There are literally hundreds of smoking guns and the evidence listed here is only the beginning.
Id also add that, as with any agency, enterprise or business, the U.S. intelligence agencies are highly compartmentalized. This means that those at the lower levels just follow orders and dont see the bigger picture. Of course, theyll have read many media reports of intelligence failures and missed signals but when this only equals a pay rise what incentive would these lower level agents have for digging deeper?
Even so, people rightly say that at least a handful of people within government and the military would find out and blow the whistle. And again I respond, yes they would and they have!
Robert Wright, Tatyana Koryagina, David Schippers, Mike Vreeland, and several others have come forward. Another misconstrued form of logic is the question of if these people are a threat to the government and they are telling the truth then why havent they been killed or silenced? if they were killed or silenced they would become an even bigger threat to the government.
The New World Order doesnt want to create martyrs. If those exposing the truth were physically taken out then it would only lend absolute credibility to everything they had said. Far easier for the government to label everything as a conspiracy theory and assassinate characters rather than bodies. It is only those people with incriminating knowledge who dont speak out that get wiped out by the government.
Publicity is a safeguard. The individuals and organizations that carried out 9/11 control the media and so they can use it to demonize anyone they like and turn them into a laughing stock.
But if the people who organized the attack also control the media then why would they let all these stories about prior knowledge get out? Another variation on this is if you are saying the mainstream media lies all the time then why are you using it to document your argument?
The mainstream media cannot always manufacture what happened because people would notice. They report on what happened, give you the truth but them spin it to look like something else. Its like putting a couple of oranges in a blender. The same thing that you put in comes out, it just looks different. So the news will tell you that, for example, a plot to attack buildings with planes was known before September 11. What they wont do is link that to the fact that the World Trade Center was the primary target.
Furthermore, they will also forget to include the fact that many government officials cancelled flights into New York on September 10. This is just one example, I could use many. The point is that they dont link different things together. Everything is just a big accident and every event has no relation to the next one. They count on you not having a memory. Another point I would make is that the vast majority of the news stories I cite never appeared at the top of the evening news headlines. The media obfuscate by distraction.
Theyll tell you what the big Hollywood star was wearing at the ceremony last night and this leaves little time to report the CIAs friendly chat with Osama right before the attack. And finally, believe it or not, the mainstream junta is sparsely sprinkled with some decent journalists who actually earn their money by reporting the unvarnished truth.
Another tactic the media use, as many of you are probably aware, is that they link anyone who talks about a different story behind 9/11 in with a host of different conspiracies. This has the effect of overwhelming the average reader/listener/viewer making it a far more attractive proposition to label the whole lot as a paranoid delusion than actually take the time to personally investigate it.
An example would be an ABC News story entitled What Consensus? Conspiracy Theorists Immune to the Widespread Support for War on Terror.66 In this article, the journalist takes some wild theories obtained from anonymous Internet forums and then attributes them to serious researchers. They then link this with extraterrestrial aliens (dont ask me how) and the whole thing turns into a circus. On most occasions I find that these journalists openly admit to not even having read the work of the people they demonize.
The same journalists who label people like me as a conspiracy theorist are the ones reporting with straight faces that the FBI found one of the hijackers paper passports in the rubble of the WTC on September 11. Over a year after the attack, half of the bodies havent even been identified and we are to believe that a paper passport somehow managed to find its way out of an exploding plane flying into one of the biggest buildings in the world, fluttering calmly to the ground totally unscathed?
66 What Consensus? Conspiracy Theorists Immune to War on Terror Dean Schabner ABC News April 17 2002 available at http://ww.propagandamatrix.com/what_consensus.htm
If an official source says it, it must be true. If anyone questions it, they must be a mad conspiracy theorist. As you can probably tell, Im not a very calm person to be around when the news is on the TV. It makes me physically ill. The reaction and role of the media in the 9/11 drama will again be touched upon in the ensuing chapters. I have merely provided a thumbnail sketch on each piece of prior knowledge because to exhaustively chronicle them all would fill two books in itself.
For the purposes of further research I have provided over sixty sources in this chapter alone.
Back to Contents
Back to The 9/11 Events
