# Palden Jenkins' Notes from Revision 1993

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/planetchoise/opc24.htm

PALDEN JENKINS' NOTES
FROM REVISION 1993
[Chapter indicated and title where relevant]
NOTES
[Accelerating Earth's Evolution Chapter 2-old, Chapter 8-new]
1. See Stanley Messenger, "A Preparation for the Next Impact", in Crop Circles - Harbingers of World Change, ed Alick Bartholomew, Gateway Books, 1991. This is a book about possible realties, not just crop-circles.
2. Donella Meadows, Dennis Meadows and Jorgen Randers, Beyond the Limits, Earthscan, UK, Chelsea Green, US.
3. Palden Jenkins, "The Age of People", in Crop Circles - Harbingers of World Change, Gateway Books, 1991
4. Lewis Mumford, The City in History, Penguin, 1973.
5. Lester W Milbrath, Envisioning a Sustainable Society, State Univ of New York Press, 1989
NOTES
[Clearing up after the Party Chapter 3-old]
1. The Nine regard negative energies (adversity, darkness, densification) to be as necessary as positive ones (ease, light, elevation), when they are in balance. When they are not, they create a major problem, and the current condition of Planet Earth is a manifestation of this. More about this in Part II.
2. In physics, when a moving or changing body of mass attains a certain impetus or intensity, it 'goes critical', while it gathers energy for a fundamental change into another form. An example of this is water approaching boiling-point, in which there is a pause in the heating process, as the water makes the conversion from liquid to steam-vapour.
3. In the last 150 years (the age of steam engines and cars), carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere have increased 30%, and continue to increase by 3% per year, or 0.4% of atmospheric composition. About half of the Ca we produce by fossil fuel burning is absorbed by carbon dioxide consumers like forests, wetlands and ocean plankton, which themselves continue to decline - the other half builds up in the atmosphere. If nothing changes, carbon dioxide levels are set to double between 1990 and 2030. Nitrogen and phosphorus output into the oceans also kill marine plant communities, taking oxygen out of the water and starving other marine life forms. The carbon dioxide factor is a major contributor to the 'Greenhouse Effect' which is leading to rising temperatures and climatic change worldwide. Dolphins. The Nine give special significance to dolphins, for reasons which will emerge when we look into Earth history. Their level of intelligence is regarded by them to be at least equal to that of humans, and related to that of humans, and their work on Planet Earth is seen to be as important as ours. Chilean fishermen, who kill 5,000 dolphins per year for use as crab-bait, call them 'tontitas' or 'silly ones' because they are friendly and easy to kill, and because their fellows mass around a captured to rescue it, becoming easy prey themselves. In a 13-year period, 4.8 million dolphins were killed by US-registered boats alone, and they are still permitted to kill up to 20,500 per year. The tuna industry kills 110,000 dolphins annually in the East Pacific. Commercial killing of dolphins is done mainly by Japan, Taiwan, Sri Lanka and Peru. (Data source: WWF Environment Handbook, Macdonald Optima, UK, 1990).
4. To feed our demand for meat and dairy products, we now have 15 billion cattle in the world, each of which contributes two litres of flatulence daily. Flatulence contains methane (also produced when land and water are disturbed), which absorbs oxygen. Additionally five billion people each produced 0.25 litres of flatulence daily.
5. A clarification of the preceding four sentences. Holes in the ionosphere relate to ozone-layer depletion, caused by CFCs and halon gases, which eat high-level ozone, and remove the ultra-violet filtering shield in Earth's atmosphere. The Nine are saying that when a nation goes out of balance, signs of it will be manifest in its environmental and social problems, in particular - and therefore that resolving these questions involves working on the inner balance of energy within each nation. Insidious diseases: these fall into various categories, such as cancer and leukaemia, which arise from lifestyle and pollutant issues, AIDS, a new disease arising from lifestyle practices, and in Africa, longterm deprivation, and escalating, spreading diseases such as cholera, which are thriving through deprivation, climate warming and international travel. Fulfilment of destiny: what Tom is referring to here is that each person needs to live a full life-cycle in order to fulfil their soul-purpose, and the level of early death through war, disease and tragedy endemic throughout the world gives rise to a collective, even institutionalised non-fulfilment of purpose, which itself leads to a planetary energy-imbalance.
6. Obstructing forces. The Nine, later in the book, demonstrate how our world problems are caused not only by our ignorance and myopia, but also by forces which are intentionally seeking to obstruct forward evolution, to corrupt people's thoughts and aspirations, and to perpetuate the historical somnambulism we are habituated to. This is covered in Chapter 7.
7. The use of meditation in this work is examined in Chapter 20, and the occasional mention of meditation will crop up as we progress. Issue-oriented meditation is one way in which the heat can be turned up on the needed attitudinal swing in the population, to facilitate new values and priorities, and clarify social goals. This has already been demonstrated in the 1980s, with the World Meditation Days, Harmonic Convergence and other networked events.
8. 'Karma' is a Sanskrit (North Indian classical language) word, meaning action and its laws, interpreted in the West as the law of cause-and-effect. It is not quite so simple and arithmetical as it sounds, but it is the oriental equivalent to Jesus' statement "As you sow, so shall you reap". In India, and amongst modem Western 'new age' adherents, the notion of karma is often arrogantly used to justify doing nothing to help people in need, on the basis that they deserved to be needy through their own earlier actions.
9. Here, Tom refers to the minority of people who feel that starvation and hardship takes away the need to confront the population bomb, an extreme variant of the 'NIMBY' philosophy, that suffering is fine as long as it is 'not in my own backyard'.
10. Arnold Toynbee, A Study of History, 6 vols, or 2 abridged vols, Oxford Univ Press.
NOTES
[The Council of the Nine-Chapter 4-old, Chapter 2-new]
1. Tehuti was one of the most important gods to the ancient Egyptians, and was regarded as one of the oldest. The Egyptians believed that Tehuti brought them civilisation, arts and knowledge, giving them their knowledge of building, mathematics, music, writing, surveying and astronomy. The Greeks adopted him as Thoth, who was akin to Hermes, the messenger of the gods.
Atum is the source of the name 'Tom'. Atum (Atem, Turn, Temu), is virtually the same as the well-known Egyptian god Ra, born out of Nunu, the primeval abyss. Temu was the god who created himself and the Universe, his name meaning, approximately, 'the complete one'. Although we use the term 'he', Atum or Temu was asexual. Atum was a member of the Ennead or Great Nine, made up of Atum. Shu, Tefnut, Gebb, Nut, Osiris, Isis, Set and Nephthys.
Harmarkos, or Re-harmakkis, and Herenkar were Egyptian metaphysical beings representing the higher or supreme self, linked to Atum. Thomas is a name which Tom first used when contacting Phyllis psychically - in order to be noticed by her, he adopted the name of her deceased grandfather, Thomas. He later corrected this when she was in a position to accept his true identity.
2. This refers to the One God, Temu or Ra, in the three aspects of Khepri, the morning sun, Ra, the noon-day sun, and Atum (Temu) the setting sun. Later on, this one god, who had no counterpart, offspring, associate or equal, was later (VIth Dynasty) usurped by Osiris, but this scheme preceded this change With regards to the line which follows, the sphinx was a representation of Atum.
3. The beginnings of Egyptian civilisation have been a perpetual source of mystery for historians and archeologists, for the elements which made up later Egyptians civilisation suddenly seemed to appear at once, in the fourth millennium BC. Egypt moved straight from a stage of pre-civilisation to the government of large areas, without the usual era of city-states intervening. The ordinary logic of historical development does not apply to Egypt as it does to Mesopotamia.
4. The Elohim were noted in the Book of Genesis as being the creators of the world 'Elohim', means 'many gods'- although in the Bible, this is confused with the Hebrew word Adonai which means 'Lord'. The singular form is 'Eloha' - use of the plural clearly indicates several beings.
5. Soul. In the words of Sri Aurobindo, the Indian philosopher-mystic: "Me true soul secret in us is the flame of Divinity always alight within us, inextinguishable even by dense unconsciousness It is the concealed Witness and Control, the hidden Guide, the inner light or inner voice of the mystic. It is that which endures and is imperishable in us from birth to birth, untouched by death, decay or corruption, an indestructible spark of the Divine." (The Life Divine, Sri Aurobindo, Pondicherry). Soul is not directly involved in incarnate life, but nevertheless feels the qualities of experience met in life; it has inherent all-knowing, yet seeks completion in the knowledge that it knows. It is the director and experiencer of all of our existences. It is inherently at one with all other souls, and with the essence of Divinity, even though it has individuality and character of its own, and is the root of individuality.
6. Nine chakras. The chakras are subtle energy centres within the body, traditionally seven in number: the root chakra between the legs (controlling our survival instinct); the sacral centre three finger-widths below the navel (controlling sexuality, reproduction and emotion); the solar plexus, a hand-width above the navel (the seat of the will); the heart chakra (the source of love); the throat chakra at the base of the throat (source of communication and much of our thinking); the brow chakra just above the eyebrows (seat of understanding and inner vision); and the crown chakra at the top of the head (our cosmic connection with divinity). From what the Nine say, there are two further ones which have nothing to do with our individual nature of existence, one below the root chakra and one above the crown chakra. These are presumably gateways of cosmic energy and information which relate to the deeper recesses of the unconscious and the highest realms of the superconscious, respectively.
7. The nine bands around the Earth, and the nine etheric bodies refer to the subtle levels of our planet as a whole being, and the subtle bodies of which we are comprised. As Tom says, any atransformative work we might do with ourselves is toward the end of developing conscious use of all these bodies.
8. Gordon, Dr Ian, The Andronicus Tapes, 1983. From the Andronicus Foundation, PO Box 2506, Richmond South, Victoria 3121, Australia. Andronicus is not one of the Nine, but appears, from the description he gives of his role and work, to be working in conjunction with them.
9. Superconductivity. Modern technology has been furiously researching this area, in connection with conduction of electricity through media of zero (or close-to-zero) resistance - usually substances which are cooled to temperatures close to absolute zero (-273). Absolute zero, however, is super-cold only from our Earth experience, and in relation to our dense physical existence, which survives within a narrow band of temperature parameters. The Nine are using the symbolism of what to us is cold, to indicate scientifically how their level of perfection works. The Council of Nine probably have no heating problems.
10. Matter and anti-matter are fundamentally dissociated kinds of energy and form which seek to neutralise each other. Scientists presume that the meeting of anti-matter would create an explosion, but current knowledge on UFO propulsion systems accepts that controlled conditions of matter and anti-matter is used in the powering of at least some UFO's.
NOTES
[God & Creation Chapter 5-old, Chapter 3-new]
1. Here, Tom is referring to those who work and run errands on behalf of the Nine, and of God, in the Universe. We shall be investigating these in the next three chapters.
2. The Gospel according to John, Chapter 1. "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God; all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it." Holy Bible, Revised Standard Edition. The correct Greek term for 'Word' was logos, which could best be understood as 'inherent order' or 'design'.
3. Genesis, 1, 27. "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them."
4. The illusionary factor is the capacity we humans have developed to tell ourselves that things are like this or like that, when in fact they are not. The perceived inferiority of women, blacks, children, some nations, animals, are examples of such beliefs.
5. The twenty-four heads of civilizations have their cohorts and family, which we call the Universal Civilizations, but these heads, and the twenty-four, act to supervise the myriad other civilizations of the Universe. More about this in chapters 6 and 7 following..
6. Holy Bible, Revelations, chapters 4 and 7. Chapter 4: "After this I looked, and lo, in heaven an open door! And the first voice said, 'Come up hither, and I will show you what must take place after this'. At once I was in the Spirit, and lo, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne! And he who sat there appeared like jasper and carnelian, and round the throne was a rainbow that looked like an emerald. Round the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clad in white garments, with golden crowns upon their heads." A dramatic vision indeed. Chapter 7, v 13: "Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these, clothed in white robes, and whence have they come?' I said to him, 'Sir, you know.' And he said to me, 'These are they who have come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night within his temple; and he who sits upon the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes."
NOTES
[The Universal Civilisations Chapter 6-old, Chapter 4-new]
UFO bibliography
Books
Vallee, Jacques: Confrontations, Ballantine, New York 1990.
Hynek, Dr J A: The Hynek UFO Report, Sphere, London 1978.
Good, Timothy: Above Top Secret: The Worldwide UFO Cover-Up; Sigwick & Jackson, London 1987.
Howe, Linda Moulton; An Alien Harvest, Linda M Howe Productions, P 0 Box 538, Huntingdom Valley, PA 19006-0538,1989.
Hopkins, Budd: Intruders, Random House, New York, 1987.
Hynek, J.A., The UFO Experience, Ballantine, New York, 1974.
- New English Library, London, 1980.
Encyclopaedia of UFO's,
Berlitz, Charles and Moore, William: The Roswell Incident, Granada, London 1980.
Magazines
, P 0 Box 162, High Wycombe, Bucks, HP13 5OZ, UK.
Flying Saucer Review
2547 W Peterson Ave, Chicago, IL60659, USA. International UFO Reporter,
journal, 103 Oldtowne Road, Segvin, TX78155-4099, USA. MUFON UFO
1536 S. Robertson Blvd, 1,05 Angeles, CA90035, USA. UFO,
15, Pickard Court, Temple Newsom, Leeds, LS15 9AY, UK. Quest International,
P 0 Box 30, Mapleton, Qld 4560, Australia. Nexus,
2. During the channelling sessions, when Phyllis goes into deep trance, the maintenance of her body-psyche functions are taken over by Alteans, and a protection factor is brought into the sessions too, to guard against incursions of a human or non-human kind. The Alteans also create the connections between Phyllis and the Nine, such as she described at the end of chapter 4, when she went on her visit to the Nine's 'abode'. Occasionally, the civilization Altea is also called Altima.
3. The place of the Hebrews in world history, past and present, is covered in chapters 10 and 15.
4. The 'Angel that has Fallen' refers to the being we know of as Lucifer, who is leader of the Obstructors, who tend to work against the Universal Civilizations, and to influence people and forces on Planet Earth who work to further ignorance, selfishness and 'bottlenecking'. More in chapter 13.
5. To put this figure in perspective, our neighbour star Sirius is 7 light years away, all stars visible to the naked eye are from 4 to 1,000 light years away, the centre of our galaxy is 15,000 light years away. A light year is 63,240 times the distance between sun and Earth. Local galaxies are over a million light years away from us.
6. If you are interested in crop circles, try the following: The Crop Circle Enigma, ed Ralph Noyes, Gateway Books 1990; Crop Circles Harbingers of World Change, ed Alick Bartholomew, Gateway Books 1991; Spuren im Kom (German), Jurgen Kronig, 2001;The Centre for Crop Circle Studies is the main research body in UK; its maffing address, and the subscriptions address of the periodical Cerealogist is 20 Paul St, Frome, Somerset, BAll IDX, England); and the video Crop Circle Communique, John McNish. (PO Box 146, Guildford, Surrey GU2 5JY, England).
7. See chapter 5, footnote 3.
8. These twenty-four civilizations complement one another in their special qualities and purposes. In chapter 4, Tom introduced the difference between balanced and imbalanced aspects of the positive and negative forces in the Universe: the Twenty-Four are all balanced high civilizations which are aligned to universal purpose, and since balancing implies the equable interplay of polarities, these polarities will be present in the pairing of the twelve civilizations.
9. The channelling of Alice Bailey, done in the 1930s-50s, comes from an entity called Dhjwal Khul, and amounts to many volumes of intricate esoteric material, which have formed the basis for the inner training of many people, especially in the 60s and 70s. They are still published by the Lucis Trust, in London, Geneva and New York.
10. Jehovah is the head of the civilization Hoova.
11. Atlantis is covered in chapter 10.
12. Inquisitive beings. This refers to lesser civilizations which do not understand the background to what is happening on Planet Earth, and who therefore are visiting our planet for the sake of curiosity, research or experimentation tending to get in the way of the delicate situation here. Therefore, the Nine have let them in on the act, to bring them into greater harmony with their own efforts.
13. The Nine are here referring to unconscious readiness to accept the existence of ETs, rather than fully thought-out conscious acceptance, influenced greatly by the films of the 1970s and 80s. A whole generation of young people have grown up with a diet of Star Trek, The Empire Strikes Back and Close Encounters.
14. Holy Bible, Revelations 7, v4.
15. The Sumerian civilization, in our historical records, began around 6,000 to 5,000 BC in what is now southern Iraq, although the roots of this civilisation, from the Nine's viewpoint, might be earlier. The archaeological dating of the life of Abraham was around 2,000-1,700 Bc - definite dates do not exist. Abraham originated from the city of Ur, a city of some 300,000 people, not far from the mouth of the Euphrates, moving up to Haran, in what is now Syria, then later moving to Palestine, to found the city of Hebron, named after the Habiru, whom he led, and who are presumably descended from the Hoovids. The Habiru were unpopular at the time, because they would not settle, and Abraham invoked further unpopularity when he reputedly destroyed the idols of his father, Terach, affirming the principle of the One God.
16. Holy Bible, Genesis 6,vQ. "When men began to multiply upon the face of the ground, and daughters were born to them, the sons of God (Hoovids) saw that the daughters of men were fair; and they took to wife such of them as they chose. Then the Lord (Elohim) said, 'My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh, but his days shall be a hundred and twenty years'. The Nephilim (Giants, possibly Alteans) were on the Earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men that were of old, the men of renown."
17. This refers to a period earlier in human history, which we shall examine in chapter 9.
18. A 'seeding' refers to genetic implants into humanity, through the intentional mating of human females with ETs from particular civilizations.
19. This refers to the close relationship between the Mongol Emperors of China, Mongka Khan and Qubilai Khan, and the lamas Sakya Pandita and Karma Pakshi, around 1200 AD. However, Srongtsen Gampo, a powerful Tibetan King in the early 600s, the first Buddhist monarch of Tibet, had a Chinese and a Nepalese wife, both of whom were responsible for converting him to the Buddhadharma.
20. Ioannes, also known as Ea and Jonah, was half-man, half-fish in mythology, the God of the water-depths, and a friend to people. He brought culture, literacy and sciences to the ancients of Ur, and was looked on as a potter who shaped the lives of men and gods. His wife was Hinlil, goddess of grain, and wheat is reputed to have been given to humanity by these two.
21. Here, Tom is referring to the increasing visits by Tibetan lamas to other countries, to teach Buddhism, and also to the exemplary non-violence and cultural resilience of the Tibetans, despite the exile of many of them, and the destruction of temples and cultural centers within Tibet.
NOTES
[Aliens and Visitations Chapter 7-old]
1. Timothy Good, Alien Liaison, Arrow, 1991.
2. Flying Saucer Review issues 2-6,1974.
3. Robert Temple, The Sirius Mystery, Sidgwick & Jackson, 1976.
4. More about this in chapter 9 on the seeding of humanity.
5. 'Colonization' takes place when beings from the civilizations land and settle on Planet Earth, while 'merging' takes place when beings mate with human females, then sooner or later depart.
6. The Pleiades are 410 light years away.
7. The beings from constellation Reticulum, a form of 'Greys', because of their grey appearance, are reported to have been involved with the American government since the 1950s, and have been in evidence in Nevada and Puerto Rico. For further details, see Alien Contact, and Above Top Secret by Timothy Good.
8. This statement could refer to some forms of crop-damage which are to be seen in crop fields increasingly. Such damage looks like wind-damage, but when examined closely, from a thermodynamic viewpoint, the patterns and nature of the damage implies either new wind patterns (not vortical) or some wind I other kind of energy-effect.
9. This refers to abductions and surgical operations reputed to have been performed on animals and humans. The animals are then left lying on the land, with specific organs removed through extremely accurate operations, leaving not one drop of blood. Humans are usually returned with their memory of the experience suppressed, and with physical signs of operations or tampering. In such cases there has even been fertilization of Earth females, followed by removal of the foetus at around 4-5 months pregnancy. These are presumably connected with bio-engineering which the perpetrating beings are carrying out, for use on their home planets, or here.
10. The supposed principle is that the creation of extremely powerful counteractive magnetic fields actually warps time and space (as stars do, through their own magnetic and gravitational fields). Time and space can be warped in specific directions and intensities, such that the vehicle is literally sucked, or twanged in the desired direction, simply by bending the space-reality around it. In other words, the vehicle does not move in relation to the world - the world moves in relation to it, in terms of its time-space arrangement.
11. This refers to the special organization MJ-12, which is claimed to lie outside the jurisdiction of the official intelligence agencies in USA.
12. This refers primarily to the disarmament negotiations between USA and USSR in the Reagan-Gorbachev period of the late 1980s, which did quietly involve other countries. There was a realization that a divided Planet Earth was in danger from the apparently superior capabilities of the 'aliens'.
13. By 'sonars' is meant what we often call 'antennae', for both receiving and broadcasting.
14. Book of Revelations, Ch 8.
"When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. And another angel came and stood at the altar with a golden censer; and he was given much incense to mingle with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar before the throne; and the smoke of the incense rose with the prayers of the saints from the hand of the angel before God. Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it on the Earth; and there were peals of thunder, voices, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake..."
15. This strong statement is examined in the following two sections.
NOTES
[The Opposition Chapter 8-old]
1. We shall be examining the mythology of Adam & Eve in chapter 9.
2. This implies that desire was introduced into humans - instead of innocent and trusting contentment - in order to give us the itch to grow.
3. Also known as Lucifer (Latin) or Phosphorus (Greek), the Bringer of Light or Morning Star, whose job was to hone the spirits of souls through helping them face challenge and adversity, in such a measure that they would grow to overcome this, and thereby cultivate the light, or the 'diamond body', within them. Lucifer, however, got offended by developments in the heavenly realms, and struck out on his own.
NOTES
[The Seeding of Humanity & the Aksu Culture Chapter 9-old, Chapter 10-new]
1. Quote from "Visual Thinking in the Ice Age", Randall White, Scientific American, Vol 261, No 1, July 1989. From "The Great Leap Forward - Dawn of the Human Race" by Jared Diamondd in Discover the World of Science, May 1989:
"Having surveyed some of the key developments of the Aurignacian in technology, body ornamentation and representation, one is led to ask whether there is any way to tie them together.... Close to the heart of these developments is an increased ability to think in - and communicate specific visual images."
Also "The Search for Modern Humans", John J Putman, National Geographic Magazine, October 1988.
2. Quote from "The Great Leap Forward Dawn of the Human Race" by Jared Diamond in Discover -the World of Science, May 1989
3. "Our Being" is the Nine's name for Phyllis, the channel.
4. "The Hawk was worshipped in Egypt from the earliest times. He was the incarnation of the Spirit of Heaven, and the sun and moon represented his eyes. The texts mention the Golden Hawk which was four cubits in breadth, and had the head of a Benu [Ibis or Heron-type bird]; this was the phoenix of the Greeks. The 'Divine Hawk' was the offspring of Tern or Atem, and was the incarnation of the One God and of Horus, son of Osiris; 'millions of years serve him, and millions of years hold him in fear'. The human-headed hawk was the symbol of the soul."
From Fetish to God in Ancient Egypt, E A Wallis Budge, 1934 (reprinted Dover, NY, 1988).
5. Holy Bible, Genesis 6, v4.
NOTES
[The Altean Venture: Atlantis Chapter 10-old, Chapter 11-new]
1. Lee, Sir Desmond, Timmaeus and Critias, Penguin, Harmondsworth, 1986. See also, Hope, Murry, Atlantis: Myth or Reality?, Arkana, London, 1991.
2. This is echoed in a book called Jesus and the Essenes, by Dolores Cannon, Gateway Books, 1992, in the sections concerning the mysterious Kaloo, who were the last remnants of Atlanteans, in Jesus' time.
3. The Kahuna are the indigenous medicinemen of the Hawaiian islands, possessing an advanced philosophy of life. The tribe of Cohen refers to the priests of the Hebrew peoples, descended from Aaron. The term, nowadays a Jewish surname, derives from the Hebrew 'hakkohen', meaning 'priest. This statement from Tom illustrates how, contrary to our normal picture, there was considerable travel in the world in ancient times, covering vast distances.
4. The story of loannes re-appeared in the Book of Jonah in the Bible, in which Jonah was asked by God to go to Nineveh to protest against its wickedness. He rebelled and took ship in an opposite direction. But a storm arose, and the sailors threw him overboard, at his own suggestion. A great fish or whale then swallowed him, later to disgorge him on to the shore. Jonah managed to persuade the people of Nineveh to change their ways, and the destruction of Nineveh was prevented (from A History of the Jews by Paul Johnson, Weidenfeld & Nicolson, London 1988). This is taken as a Biblical encouragement to the Jews to recognize that God's attention and mercy extended beyond the Jews to the whole human race, and that, if the people of Nineveh could repent from unwholesome ways, so too could the Jews. This story is a remnant of an earlier story, in which loannes came to Mesopotamia to upgrade the understanding and culture of the people of the area, who were post-Aksu people.
5. The Maori-Hawaiian-Polynesian story of the demi-god Maui falls into the pattern of ET visitors and influences. The myth says that shortly after he was born, his mother threw him into the sea, whence he was taken up to the sky by supernatural beings, from whom he learned his skills. When he readied maturity he returned, bringing much knowledge with him.
6. This could be Hephaestus, Greek god of fire and chief workman of the Gods. However, the Greek name for Horus was Harpocrates.
7. The purpose of the Hawk and his colleagues being involved in the later stages of Atlantis was, again, to seek to upgrade the genetic stock, particularly to inject a stronger sense of purpose or 'covenant' into the mixed Atlantean peoples. Those that opposed, however, were set on carrying out their medical transplant technology, and presumably saw the Hawk as an interference in this process.
8. This refers to the sexual propensities of the Atlanteans, who had come to enjoy and identify with the physical sexuality possible on Planet Earth.
9. Heavy water is a technology involved in the nuclear industry. If it is released into the environment, there is a risk that it would convert ordinary water into heavy water, rendering all water use impossible.
NOTES
[Ancient Egypt Chapter 11-old, Chapter 12-new]
1. This use of sound in moving blocks of stone was also mastered by the Tibetans, and recorded early in the 20th Century by the Swedish traveller Sven Hedin. Rumour has it that one of the Swedish museums has a copy of film taken of this - under lock and key.
2. Isis and Ra were both influential deities in Egypt of the Middle Period. Isis made universal claims: the One who is all things, the Goddess of Ten-Thousand Names, the single embodiment of all gods and goddesses. She was consort to Osiris, the idealized woman, wife and mother. She was also mother of Horus, whose consort was Hather. Ra, the Sun God, was recognized as the successor to Atum, at Heliopolis. Later, Ra declined in popularity, in favour of Osiris. Mankind and animals were said to come from Ra's teas.
3. Hathor was a cow-goddess, representing the conceiving and creating power of nature, 'mother of her father and daughter of her son', midwife to pregnant women, ally of lovers and beautiful women. She had an honoured place in every local company of gods, as the female counterpart of the head of each company, even though she had entered the company as but a guest. Many other goddesses were forms of her. Refer to Wallis Budge, From Fetish to God in Ancient Egypt, Dover reprint, 1988, for information about all these deities.
NOTES
[Hoovid Branchings, Hebrew Roots Chapter12-old, Chapter 13-new]
1. This is referring to the times in Israel's history when the nation was strong and proud, for example, in the days of the Twelve Tribes (1200-1020 BC), David and Solomon (c1000-925 BC) and the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah (925-842 BC).
2. Obedience in this context implies adherence to the innate laws or agreements of the Universe, through aware choice - the Hoovids participated in the seeding by contract with the Nine, as it were. That contract was the Covenant.
3. Here, Tom is referring to the emphasis which the Jewish people placed on ritual throughout their history, especially the differences of opinion between the ritualistic and more authoritarian Sadducees, the priests of the Temple in Jerusalem, and the more pragmatic Pharisees, the grass-roots rabbis of the villages and local communities of Israel, but also to the ancient tendency for religion to become less a vehicle for knowledge as one for supplication.
4. This refers to the requested sacrifice by Abraham of his favoured son Isaac at Moriah, Jerusalem, where, on the verge of sacrificially killing his son, his hand was stayed, Isaac was reprieved, and the test was passed. Genesis, 22,1-14.
NOTES
[The Covenant Chapter 13-old, Chapter 14-new]
1. The Bedouin are a small grouping of nomads (who nowadays act as truck and taxi drivers in the Middle East) who range throughout the region from Egypt to Syria to Saudi Arabia, including Israel. Even though the royal house of Jordan is of Bedouin extraction, this people as a whole tend to stand at the bottom of the pile in the region. While being Islamic by religion, they hold their own views and practices, and these days seem to be on quite good terms with Israelis.
2. Zipporah, daughter of Jethro the Medianite. The Midianites had a similar origin to the Arabs (Ishmael's descendants) inasmuch as they were descended from one of Abraham's concubines, Keturah, who was, like Hagar, sent away.
3. Megiddo is recognized by archaeologists to date back at least to Chalcolithic settlements around the 4000s BC (the time of Upper and Lower Egypt and the Sumerian city-states), and twenty occupation levels have been identified. It was attacked, re-peopled and re-built though time, involving Egyptians (1460s BC), Mesopotamians (730s BC), Phoenicians (1490s BC) and locals at different times. When Joshua and the Israelites entered the area from Sinai (about 1250 BC), Megiddo, with Jericho, was one of the Canaanite Strongholds which had to be subdued -and archaeological remains demonstrate a formidable level of civilization there. It was completely re-built as a fortified city by Solomon (950s-940s BO, then destroyed and reconstructed by the Assyrians in 733 BC. It went into terminal decline at the time of the defeat and death of Josiah in 609 BC.
4. This could be the 'Great Shining Ones', or the 'Sons of Anu, the Annanage (the Anunnaki), who, according to Sumerian tradition, brought high culture with them to the Mount Hermon area (on what is now the Lebanese-Syrian-Israeli border), "where heaven and Earth meet". See The Fire and the Stones, Nicholas Hagger, Element, UK, 1991.
5. See chapter 9, concerning the early preparation of the energy-fields of the Earth.
NOTES
[Jesus the Nazarene-Chapter 14-old, Chapter 15-new]
1. Prof. Fida Hassnain, a Kashmiri historian, points out in A Search for the Historical Jesus: from Buddhist, Islamic and Sanskrit sources, Gateway Books, 1993, that, according to the chronicles he has found from Persia, India and Tibet, Jesus was a world teacher, who became monopolized by the Christian Church, to the exclusion of other faiths which adopted 'St Issa' as a saint and prophet. The Church even went to great lengths to acquire and conceal, or destroy all other records of Jesus' life, from early times up to recent decades.
2. From the Gospel of Thomas found at Nag Hammadi in Egypt in 1945, from The Other Gospels by Ron Cameron, Lutterworth Press, 1983. This resembles a Druidic verse, which goes: "I am a stag of seven times, I am a wide flood on a plain, I am the wind on the deep waters, I am a shining tear of the sun, I am a hawk on a cliff, I am fair among flowers, I am a battle-raging spear, I am a salmon in the pool, I am a hill of poetry, I am a ruthless bear, I am a wave of the sea - Who but I knows the secret of the unhewn dolmen?
3. Gospel according to Matthew 7, 15-20. "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorns, or figs from thistles? So, every sound tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears evil fruit. A sound tree cannot bear evil fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will know them by their fruits."
4. Kingston-on-Thames has a landscape zodiac, miles wide, similarly to Glastonbury - as identified by Katherine Maltwood and Mary Caine in their work on landscape zodiacs and temples. See New Light on the Ancient Mystery of Glastonbury John Michell, Gothic Image, Glastonbury, 1990, and New View over Atlantis by John Michell, Thames & Hudson, London, 1983. Here is the origin of William Blake's poem: "And did those feet in ancient times fall upon England's mountains green?".
5. See A Search for the Historical Jesus, Prof. Fida Hassnain, Gateway Books, Bath, 1993.
6. See Jesus and the Essenes, Dolores Cannon, Gateway Books, Bath, 1992, and The Dead Sea Scrolls Deception, Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh, Jonathan Cape, London, 1991.
7. Aramaic was related to Hebrew, using roughly the same script. The Aramaeans were Semitic peoples deriving from Arabia, whose influence became dominant in Mesopotamia, and whose language was the lingua franca of Persia and Mesopotamia in the centuries before Jesus.
8. There is dispute over this. To quote The New Bible Dictionary, ed J D Douglas (InterVarsity Press, 1962): "The view that the author was John the Apostle goes back to Justin Martyr (c 140 BC), and is supported by Irenaeus and many others. The principal objection is the style of Revelation. The Greek is in many respects unlike that of the other Johannine writings. It is so unusual, and sometimes shows scant respect for the rules of Greek grammar that it is felt it cannot come from the same pen as do the Gospel and the Epistles Whereas most scholars today deny the apostolic authorship, there are some who find it best to think of all five Johannine writings as from one author, the apostle John."
9. Imhotep, "a man of obscure origins, son neither of a king nor a vizier". (R & A David, Biographical Dictionary of Ancient Egypt, Seaby, UK, 1992). The oldest Egyptian Wisdom Texts were attributed to him, and he was called in by the Pharaoh Djoser for counsel during a seven year famine. He was revered and deified as a physician, and as god of medicine and healing in the Late Period (later becoming the Greek Asklepios). His tomb was never found. Annas conducted the preliminary investigation into Jesus' activities, before Jesus' trial before Pontius Pilate. In the Biblical story, it looks as if Annas is one of the 'bad guys', because he commits Jesus to Caiaphas (John, 18, 13-24). But if we take it that various initiates knew that Jesus' public death was inevitable and necessary, for the demonstration of Jesus' commitment, then Annas was conceivably smoothing the flow of the cosmic conspiracy. Joseph of Arimathaea was a wealthy metals trader in Jerusalem, possibly a financial supporter of Jesus' operation, and was a member of the Sanhedrin who did not vote for Jesus' death. He landed up, according to tradition, being sent by Philip to England, landing up in Glastonbury to found one of the earliest churches.
10. See Conversations with Nostradamus, by Dolores Cannon, 3 Volumes, Atrium (USA). Nostradamus wrote in cryptic terms, because of the activities of the Inquisition at the time he was alive. Many attempts have been made at interpreting his quatrains, but this set of books involves a form of psychic communication with Nostradamus himself, in which he explains what he meant in his work. He backs up what Tom says concerning prediction and the purpose of his quatrains.
NOTES
[Israel and the Crescent Chapter 15-old]
1. What is buried could mean the memory of our origins, that we are not alone, that there is no death, and that we have a purpose for being here on Planet Earth.
2. If you are interested in the whole background to the situation, try Holy War, The Crusades and their Impact on Today's World, by Karen Armstrong, Macmillan /Papermac, UK, 1988. The author uses a refreshing feminine sensitivity and viewpoint in the matter of war, citing social feelings and hurts as valid, even crucial issues in historical developments
NOTES
[War and Peace in the1990s Chapter 16-old, Chapter 16-new]
1. This refers most probably to the end of the Atlantean period, but it could also refer to times in history when the polar axes of the world might have shifted.
2. Yasser Arafat was the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization for two decades
3. "Those of the spirit" are the hosts o 'spirit guides', evolved helper-souls, Earth graduates and non-incarnate inner workers in the Earth sphere who work to aid humanity from the 'inner planes'. What Tom is implying here is that a major policy-shift has gone on from one of total non-intervention, to limited 'surgical' intervention which can obviate further difficulty. This is connected with the matter of 'soul-recycling', inasmuch as souls who have ended their lives before they have completed their purpose, and particularly souls who have been caught up in tragedy, can return to life on Earth with major psychic scars and underlying ill-feeling, leading frequently to the development of further ill Such people are now being removed to other spheres, where their particular soul-ailments can be dealt with, without bringing complication to an already-difficult collective psychic situation on Earth. 'Transition' is the Nine term for what we call 'death' (which doesn't actually exist).
4. This literally implies that there is a battle going on a cosmic scale, in which similar issues were being fought out - more in a psychic sense than a military one.
5. A free-radical cell is a wild cell within the body, created through imbalanced diet lifestyle, which eats and obliterates health-giving and healing cells, being a major cause debilitation and infection.
NOTES
[Antidoting Disaster Chapter 17-old]
1. What Tom is alluding to here is that such beings as the Nine have ways of implanting ideas into the minds of innovators and inventors -which, if such people are receptive, become developed, for the advantage of humanity. In other words, there is a 'muse' of science and technology, a way of accessing revolutionary ideas and prototypes, if mechanical logic can be overcome within the mind of the recipient.
2. The 'Harmonic Convergence' in August 1987 was a worldwide-observed cosmic event, triggered by utterances emanating from the Hopi Indians, with a little help from astrologers and interpreters of Mayan prophecies. Thousands of people gathered at different sacred sites to meditate together. The Nine indicate this to have been a success, in its objective of swinging the energy on Earth.
3. This refers to the 'Greys' from Reticulum, who were mentioned in chapter 7.
NOTES
[Souls Matters Chapter 18-old, Chapter 20-new]
1. You will find out more about this in books, about 'pranayama' or yogic breathing, and a so in The Tao of Love and Sex by Jolan Chang.
2. Incoming souls to Planet Earth, in order to encode themselves with a frame of reference with which to deal with the intricacies of living on Planet Earth. This is not a substitute for life-experience itself, however,
3. If you are interested in the consciousness of yet-to-be-born people, try reading Diary of an Unborn Child, by Manuel David Coudris, Gateway Books, 1992 - a book of psychic communications between a baby in the womb, and its mother. Manuel is credited with being the youngest author in the world - unborn at the time of authorship!
4. Concerning spirit-teachings on death, try Death, Intermediate State and Rebirth, by Lati Rimpoche and Jeffrey Hopkins, Rider, UK, 1979, and The World Before, by Ruth Montgomery, Ballantine, USA, 1976.
5. This refers to a range of beliefs, including elements of paganism, shamanism, rebirthing, psychotherapy and self-improvement and self-mastery therapies.
NOTES
[Relating Chapter 20-old]
1. Engrams are deep-level unconscious beliefs or 'programs' which condition our seeing and actions to such a fundamental level that we are not aware of this happening. They are like psychic viruses, with a life of their own, taking root in people's psyches, and acting to ensure their own survival and propagation. The engram Tom is referring to here is that of male dominance.
2. The effects of this process are outlined in Riane Eisler's book, The Chalice and the Blade (Harper & Row, 1987, Unwin 1990), which traces the diffusion of the Kurgan (IndoEuropean) peoples, and the spreading of dominance-oriented societies, in the 4000S BC, across Eurasia.
3. Extra-Low Frequency Waves were experimented with for defence purposes during the Cold War, by both USA and USSR.
NOTES
[Adventures in Consciousness Chapter 21-old, Chapter 19-new]
1. Ozone is necessary and beneficial in the upper layers of the stratosphere, since it acts as a barrier to ultra-violet bombardment from the sun's rays. However, on ground level, ozone is ,harmful to us, and is generated particularly in places where there is a lot of pollution, or electronic machinery, especially when it is hot and sunny - such valley-bottom cities as Athens, Los Angeles and Tokyo suffer greatly from this. Diseases particularly associated with excess ozone intake are premature ageing, visual reduction and eye irritation.
2. The refers to the tendency of Buddhists to spend long periods in meditation and retreat, and that of Hindus to remain within their caste or ashram, and to withdraw engagement from the world. This tendency became especially strong during the first millennium of the Christian era, in the growth of monasticism (in Buddhism and Christianity especially), as a means of separating oneself from the psychological states of the mass of humanity, in order to strengthen enlightened consciousness. This is no longer necessary, except perhaps for but a few, since the insanities and bizarrities of modem life and rapid historical change are sufficient to awaken the mind. However, I would imagine that the Nine would not discourage people making periodic retreats from the world, if the aim is to clarify our work in the world and our ability to carry it out. However, in the Hindu teaching, karma yoga, the path of consciousness-within-action, and in Buddhism, the Bodhisattva Ideal - the vow to dedicate the merits of all spiritual practice to the benefit of all living beings - were designed to counteract the otherwise individual orientation of traditional spiritual practices. They were practiced, however, only by a minority. The majority believed that individual liberation was the aim.
3. According to the 'Hundredth Monkey' Principle, once something new has been earned, it becomes easier for others to learn the same thing, even if they might have no connection at all to the first learner. Also, if a critical number of people learn and understand something, it will become generally learned and known. Thus, it can be possible that if, say, 1% of people in an area, or in the world, gave their awareness to a particular thought or vision, the other 99% would experience significant shifts of consciousness toward that end. This is the principle behind the various global meditation link-ups in the world, but also events such as Live Aid or One World Week serve this purpose.
