# Pawns in the Game - 18

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/pawns_inthegame/pawns_18.htm

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
The Present Dangers
By studying history it is possible to predict future trends with a certain degree of assurance. History repeats itself because those who direct the W.R.M. (World Revolutionary Movement) do not CHANGE their Long Range Plans they simply adapt their policies to suit modern conditions and adjust their plans to take full advantage of the advancement of modern science.
In order to understand the international situation as it is to-day, we must recall what has happened since Lenin established the totalitarian dictatorship in Russia in 1918. It has been proved that the dictatorship was established to provide the Western Internationalists with the opportunity to put their totalitarian ideas and theories for a universal dictatorship into effect. They wished to iron out any wrinkles by the process of trial and error.
When Lenin died Stalin took over. At first he was ruthlessly obedient to the dictates of the international bankers. He appointed Béla Kun to put their ideas for the collectivization of farms into effect in the Ukraine. When the farmers refused to obey the edict, five million were systematically starved to death when their grain was taken from them forcibly. This grain was dumped on the markets of the world to aggravate the artificially created depression. Another five million farmers and peasants were sent to forced labour to teach the rest of the subjugated people that the STATE was supreme and the Head of the STATE their God, whose edicts must be obeyed.
It was not until Stalin began to purge a great number of Jewish Communist leaders, who were undoubtedly Marxists, that Trotsky and other revolutionary leaders knew for certain that he had abandoned the Illuminati and developed imperialistic ambitions.
Stalins conduct of the revolution in Spain perturbed the Western Internationalists still more, particularly when Serges and Maurin proved Stalin was using international Communism to further his own secret plans and imperialistic ambitions.
After Franco won the Civil War, Stalins conduct was very difficult to understand. Revolutionary leaders in Canada and America just couldnt follow the drastic changes in the Party Line as they had been taught it during their indoctrination into the Marxian theories. When Stalin signed the non-aggression pact with Hitler, after the British and German Empires had been plunged into World War Two, it appeared as if Stalin wanted to do everything within his power to aid Hitler overrun Western Europe and destroy the power of the international bankers.
The situation looked so grave from the international bankers point of view that they decided they had to try to persuade Stalin to abandon his imperialistic ambitions and go along with them in a spirit of peaceful co-existence. They tried to persuade Stalin that it was quite feasible that he should rule the Eastern World by Communism, while they ruled the Western World under a super-government. Stalin asked for proof of their sincerity. This was the beginning of the now much talked about theory of peaceful co-existence. But peaceful co-existence between two internationalistic groups; or between people who believe in God and those who believe in the devil, is impossible.
By secret communications between Churchill and Roosevelt, which Tyler Kent exposed, it was agreed that Chamberlain should be removed as Prime Minister so that Churchill could assume office and turn the Phony war into a Hot, and shooting war. They considered this act would convince Stalin of the sincerity of their intentions.
History reveals that Mr. Chamberlain was ousted as Prime Minister in May 1940 in much the same way Asquith was ousted in 1913. Churchill assumed office as Prime Minister May 11th, 1940. He ordered the R.A.F. to start bombing German cities and towns that same night. Mr. J.M. Spaight, C.B., C.B.E., was principal assistant secretary at the Air Ministry at that time. After the war he wrote a book Bombing Vindicated. In it he justifies Churchills policy to bomb German cities and towns on the grounds that it was done to Save civilization.
The author admits however that Churchills order was a breach of the agreement entered into by Britain and France on September 2nd, 1939. On that day the Prime Minister of Britain and the President of the French Republic agreed that war must be declared on Germany because of Hitlers invasion of Poland; they also agreed they would NOT bomb German cities and towns, and make the German people suffer for the sins of one man. The leaders of the two governments solemnly agreed that bombing should be restricted to strictly military objectives in the narrowest sense of the word.
Since the war it has been proved that the real reason Churchill bombed German cities, contrary to the agreement, was because the Western international bankers wished to give Stalin a definite assurance that they were sincere in their desire to carry out their suggested policy of peaceful co-existence between Eastern Communism and Western Illuminism.
The bombing of Germany brought about immediate retaliation and the people of Britain were subjected to an ordeal the like of which had never been experienced since the dawn of creation.
It is difficult for the average citizen to appreciate the depths to which those involved in international intrigue can sink. It will be proved that the Illuminati had no intention of keeping faith with Stalin. It will be proved Stalin had no intention to keep faith with them. It will also be proved that the Nazi War Lords, while secretly determined to crush both international Communism and international capitalism, actually tried to deceive Churchill into believing they did not have secret plans for world domination by military conquest.
In the Spring of 1941 the Nazi War Lords, unknown to Hitler, ordered Hess to fly to Britain and tell Churchill that if he would agree to end the war against Germany they would guarantee to get rid of Hitler and then destroy Stalin and international Communism. After consultation with Roosevelt, Churchill turned down the offer made by Hess.
The Nazi War Lords then tried to convince the Western internationalists of the sincerity of their intentions by ordering Hitlers assassination. The plot failed and Hitler escaped with his life. When this act failed to charge the minds of those who were secretly instructing Churchill and Roosevelt, the Nazi War Lords decided they must first attack Russia and defeat Stalin, and then turn their military forces against Britain and the Americas. They launched their attack against Russia June 22nd, 1941. Immediately this happened both Churchill and Roosevelt announced publicly that they pledged their respective governments to support Stalin to the limit of their resources. Churchill, ever dramatic, said he would shake hands with the Devil himself if he promised to help him destroy German Fascism. He referred to Hitler as That monstrous abortion of lies and deceits, and yet Churchill must have known that Hitler, for all his faults, was not an internationalist.
This action was calculated to remove from Stalins mind any doubt, he might still have regarding the honesty of the intentions of the Western internationalists to divide the world into two halves and then live in peaceful co-existence. Roosevelt and Churchill then proceeded to provide Stalin with unlimited aid. They borrowed astronomical sums from the international bankers and paid them interest on the loans. They then charged the principal and interest to the National debts of their two countries so that the tax payers paid for, and fought, the war fomented by the Illuminati while the bankers sat back and made hundreds of millions of dollars out of the deal. This extraordinary generosity with the peoples blood and money paved the way for the meetings which THE BIG THREE subsequently held in Tehran, Yalta, and Potsdam.
Stalin played a very cunning game at Tehran. He made it clear that he still suspected the Western internationalists might be deceptive rather than sincere. He played at being difficult to persuade, and very hard to get. He made outrageous demands. He demanded unreasonable concessions. He implied that in making these demands he was only testing out the sincerity of the men he knew only too well, from long experience, were the directors of the international conspiracy. Roosevelt had been well briefed. He gave Stalin everything he asked for. Churchill had to go along or lose the financial backing of the international money-lenders and the military support of the United States.
Then came Yalta. Stalin changed his attitude. He pretended he had been won over. He became the perfect host. Churchill and Roosevelt were dined and wined. Stalin dissolved the Comintern. The Comintern was the executive body which had plotted and planned revolutions in every country. Stalin, Roosevelt, and Churchill drank damnation to the Germans. Roosevelt assured Stalin that after they were through there wouldnt be enough German left to worry about, he is reported to have advocated shooting 50,000 German officers without trial. The controlled press has never stopped harping upon the Nazi policy of genocide against the Jews, but it has been singularly silent in regard to Roosevelts policy of genocide against the Germans. In return for the dissolution of the Comintern, Roosevelt gave Stalin more concessions. Six hundred million human beings east of Berlin were handed over into Communist bondage.
Churchill acquiesced in everything Roosevelt and Stalin did. History will prove that at the Yalta meeting Stalin and Roosevelt had several secret meetings after Churchill had been dined and wined too well to allow him to keep his wits alert. Roosevelt pretended to be friendly with Churchill but, on the evidence of his own son, he often said things, and suggested policies, which showed, that secretly, he looked upon him with contempt.
Only Churchill can explain WHY he had to sit and listen to Roosevelts suggestions that Hong Kong be given to Communist China to bribe Mao-Tse-Tung to play along with the Western internationalists. How could Churchill profess publicly, such a close and sincere friendship for Roosevelt when Roosevelt was constantly repeating that he considered the dissolution of the British Commonwealth necessary to the future welfare of the human race ? Hitler thought just the opposite.
But Stalin was nobodys fool. He had been associated with the agents of the international bankers so long that he could read their most secret thoughts like an open book. He knew better than any man alive that they had used Communism to further their totalitarian ideas, so he played them at their own game. During the final stages of the war he forced the Allied Armies to halt and wait until his armies occupied Berlin.
The above statements are proved by the existence of a secret order issued by Stalin to the General Officers of the Soviet Armies to explain his policy. The order is dated February 16th, 1943. It reads :
The Bourgeois Governments of the Western Democracies, with whom we have entered into an alliance, may believe that we consider it our sole task to throw the Fascists out of our land. We Bolsheviks, and with us the Bolsheviks of the whole world, know that our real task will only begin after the second phase of the war is ended. Then will begin for us the Third phase which for us is the last and the decisive one ... the phase of the destruction of world capitalism. OUR SOLE GOAL IS, AND IT REMAINS, THE WORLD REVOLUTION : THE DICTATORSHIP OF THE PROLETARIAT. We have engaged in alliances because this was necessary, to reach the third phase, but our ways part where our present allies will stand in our way in the achievement of our ultimate aim.
Stalin did not show his true colors until after he had captured Berlin and occupied Eastern Germany. Then he broke every promise he had made. This turn in events was kept out of the Press because neither Roosevelt nor Churchill wished the public to know how Stalin, the bank robber; the murderer; the international counterfeiter had put it over them like a blanket.
The Western internationalists just had to bide their time. They realized that if Stalin and Mao-Tse-Tung joined forces the Communist hordes could sweep over the western world like a plague of locusts. They reasoned that Stalin was getting old. They knew he hadnt too long to live. It was better to curry favor with him rather than have him spill the beans and expose the whole diabolical conspiracy.
The Western capitalists considered Stalins open defiance a serious matter, but they had a trump card up their sleeves. Before playing this card, they instructed Roosevelt to make one more effort to bring Stalin back into line again. Roosevelt offered to grant anything Stalin demanded, as far as the Far East was concerned, if only he would play along with the Western capitalists. The controlled press have persistently reported that Roosevelt gave Stalin the concessions he did in the Far East because his military advisers had told him it would require two full years of heavy fighting, after the collapse of Germany, before Japan could be brought to her knees. This lie is so apparent that it was really unnecessary for General MacArthur to give Roosevelt the lie direct. The American generals knew that Japan had been trying to negotiate a peace for a considerable time before Roosevelt made the concessions he did to Stalin.
Once again Stalin took all he could grab in Manchuria. He again reneged on his promises and renewed his defiant attitude. This time the powers behind the White House administration were really angry. They must have made some suggestion of such a diabolical nature that it even shocked Roosevelt, for he sickened and died. It has been said that he died in the house of Bernard Baruch. The Advisers of the United States government then decided to play their trump card ... the atomic bomb. The atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki to indicate to Stalin what was in store for Russia unless he toed the line.
The fact that America had atomic bombs had been kept secret. Japan was already defeated when they were dropped. Surrender was only a few days off. Over one hundred thousand human beings were sacrificed, and twice that number injured in Japan, to demonstrate to Stalin that the United States actually did have atomic bombs. Thus it is seen that Churchill ordered the unrestricted bombing of Germany to try to fool Stalin into believing the international capitalists wanted to be friends, and then the U.S.A. bombed Japan with atomic bombs to warn him that he better play along and do as he was told ... or else.
Molotov was the one man best able to judge what was going on in Stalins brain. During the post-war period Molotov was the Soviets Foreign Minister. He represented the Kremlin at the United Nations for many years. Molotov married the daughter of Sam Karp of Bridgeport, Connecticut. Thus Molotov became the connecting link between the Kremlin and the international financiers of the Western World. It has been reliably reported that immediately after Stalin withdrew Molotov from the United Nations he sent Molotovs wife into exile in Siberia. These acts alone strongly indicate that Stalin had broken with the Western capitalists who had helped put him in power in Russia.
The fact that Tito broke with Stalin after the war ended is further proof that Stalin had determined to go ahead with his imperialistic programme. Tito has always been subservient to the western Financiers who supplied him with all the money he required to establish himself in his present position in central Europe. Churchills son risked his life on more than one occasion during World War Two by parachuting into Titos territories to confer with him on behalf of the western powers.
Finally Stalin died or was disposed of. He left this world with his lips sealed like any other gangster. The agents of the Western internationalists, located in Moscow, struck as soon as Stalin died. Beria, and Stalins other trusted lieutenants, were done away with. Stalins son disappeared without a trace.
In order that what was happening in Russia would not appear too obvious, it was arranged that Malenkov should take over temporarily after Stalins death. He was ordered to decry the Great Stalin and, for a time, he did deflate him in the eyes of the people. Then he changed his tactics. He renewed friendly relations with the Chinese Dictator ; he started to make friends with the Russian people; he sponsored the development of a spirit of national pride. By doing so he sealed his own fate.
The Western internationalists countered with a demand that Western Germany be immediately rearmed. France was the stumbling block. Mendes-France was placed in power long enough to have France ratify the agreement to rearm Germany. Having served his purpose he was placed amongst the discards as so many others have been.
The situation in the Far East has deliberately been confused but it is not difficult to explain. The Western internationalists had friends in China, just as they had in Russia, but Mao-Tse-Tung cannot be considered one of them. He and Stalin had very similar ideas in regard to the Western internationalists. But both the Eastern and Western totalitarian-minded groups had one thing in common ... They wished to get rid of Chiang-Kai-Shek.
The Western capitalists started a propaganda campaign against Chiang-Kai-Shek just as soon as the Japanese war ended. This action had a two-fold purpose. They wanted to prove to Mao-Tse-Tung that co-existence with them was feasible and, at the same time, they wished to eliminate the nationalist leader. The press charged that the nationalist government was corrupt; that the nationalist generals were lax, and did not maintain discipline amongst their troops; that the nationalist troops committed pillage and publicly performed rapes. It is only right to admit that many of the charges made against the nationalists were true.
The fact that many officials in the nationalist government in China were proved to be corrupt was used to justify Great Britains policy to recognize the Communist regime. It was also used by certain United States advisers as the grounds on which they advocated that America withdraw support from Chiang-Kai-Shek. What the general public has not been told is the fact that, after the Communists took over in China, it was proved that most of the high officials who had brought ChiangKai-Shek and his nationalist government into disrepute were Communist cells who had infiltrated into the nationalist government for the purpose of wrecking it from within. This statement is substantiated by the fact that many of the nationalist government officials, who came under criticism for corrupt practices, were absorbed into the Communist regime, and given favored positions and accelerated promotions. The Rev. Leslie Millin of Toronto, who was a missionary in China during this period, will vouch for the truth of the above statements.
The way international affairs developed after 1946 would indicate that Stalin did not have atomic weapons at the time of his death. Had he possessed atomic weapons he could have knocked the principal cities of Canada and the United States into a cocked hat.
Churchill has served their purpose as far as the international bankers are concerned. He is growing old and a bit troublesome. He has to be relegated into the discard also. But Churchill has been built up by the propaganda of the western Capitalists as a GREAT man. He is the peoples national hero. He couldnt very well be disposed of by a campaign of LInfamie. He couldnt be ridiculed out of office. With rare cunning the Western internationalists disguised their intentions by ordering the Press to organize the greatest tribute a man ever load. On Churchills eightieth birthday they showered him with gifts and honor. They convinced the vast majority of people that Churchill didnt have an enemy in the world.
Events indicate that both the Communist dictators and the Western internationalists were agreed that Churchill could be an obstacle to the furtherance of their plans. The Communist dictators decided they would use Aneurin Bevan to grease the skids under Churchill. They indicated this to Communists throughout the entire world when the Chinese dictator Mao-Tse-Tung entertained Attlee and Bevan at a banquet when they visited China in 1954. The international press published pictures taken at this banquet.
It is unlikely that one person in a million, other than a Communist, understands the significance of that picture. Attlee was shown as sitting at the head table. Bevan was shown as having been placed at the bottom nearest the door. The general impression was that Attlee was the guest of honor; and that Bevan was considered of very little significance as far as the Communist regime in China, and the Soviets, were concerned. But this is how the public is confused and deceived. In China it is customary to seat the Guest of honor nearest to the door.
In view of the events recorded it is reasonably safe to predict that in the near future the following events will take place.
One. With or without his knowledge the Communist dictators will use Aneurin Bevan to help oust Churchill by attacking his foreign policy in the House of Commons.
Two. That the Western internationalists will use Bevans attacks on Churchill as a lever to get Bevan out of the British Labour party and parliament. At the same time they will get rid of Churchill by casting doubts into the minds of the people regarding his ability to carry on top-level secret negotiations now he is past eighty. It is possible the Western internationalists may lift the screen from secret diplomacy just sufficient to justify those chosen to lead the attack. By doing so the threat would be implied that if he didnt step down gracefully they would make known all that went on behind the scenes at Tehran, Yalta, Potsdam, etc.
Three. It is safe to predict Churchill will step down immediately pressure is brought to bear on him. It is equally safe to predict that Bevan will not step down. The chances are a hundred to one that Attlee and Deakin will leave, or be removed, from the Labour party in Britain and that Bevan will lead the party against Sir Anthony Eden when he decides to contest a general election after taking over from Churchill.[1]
Four. The fact that Roosevelts son has given a glimpse of the fact that Churchill had to play along with his father; and had to do as he was told, and even had to profess publicly his friendship for the president after the president had so rudely told him that he favored the dissolution of the British Commonwealth of nations, is a clear indication as to the line of attack the Western internationalists will take to get rid of, what so many people consider, The Grand Old Man of British Politics.
The point to remember is this. The Nazi internationalists have, for all intents and purposes, been eliminated from the game. Two totalitarian-minded groups of men remain ... the Communist dictators of Russia and China; and the Western capitalists or internationalists, whichever one wishes to name them.
Just as long as both groups are satisfied to live in peaceful coexistence, with the world practically divided between them, there will be an uneasy peace. But if the leaders of either side decide that coexistence is too frail a structure upon which to build their respective New Orders there will be war.
World War Three if started by the Eastern Communist dictators will begin without any preliminary warning. An international general strike will be called in all capitalistic countries. This action is calculated to produce the paralysis previously referred to. The Communist planes will bomb all industrial centers to knock out the war potential of the United States and Canada and kill as many of the population as possible in order to bring about speedy surrender and subjugation. Britain will likely get the same treatment. Nerve Gas may be used on industrial areas the enemy do not wish to destroy. Soviet forces will occupy the mining districts of northern Canada from coast to coast.
The occupied areas will be used as bases of operation against the southern objectives. The international general strike will tie up shipping in every port in the world making it impossible for supplies to reach the people of Great Britain. A blockade of the British Isles by Soviet submarines will stop any leaks. The people of Britain will be starved into submission four weeks after the outbreak of hostilities. The members of the Communist underground in all cities in the western world will evacuate target areas immediately before the attacks. The underground armies will return and take over the devastated areas as soon as the All-Clear has been given. The Communist 5th Column will round up and liquidate all people whose names are on the black list. Thus will the directors of the Western internationalists be got rid of in much quicker time than they got rid of their Nazi opponents by means of the Nuremberg Trials.
On the other hand, if the Western internationalists become convinced that an attack is to be made upon them by the Communist dictators, then they will force the western democracies into another World War in order that they may get in the first blow. As a prelude to their attack the public will be made aware of the dangers of international Communism. The danger to Christian democracy will be emphasized.
The atheistic-materialists, who have the western world in economic bondage, will call for a Christian Crusade. They will justify their atomic attacks upon Russia and China as Churchill justified his attack on Germany. They will say it was necessary to save our civilization. But dont lets fool ourselves. Regardless of how the case may be presented to the public the fact will remain that if World War Three is allowed to take place it will be fought to decide whether Eastern Communism takes over the entire world or whether the Western capitalists will continue to rule the international roost.
If World War Three is permitted to take place, the devastation will be so extensive that internationalists will continue to justify their contentions that ONLY a world government, backed up by an international police force, can solve the various national and international problems without resorting to further wars. This argument will appear very logical to many people who overlook the fact that both the Eastern Communist leaders, and the Western capitalist leaders, intend to ultimately bring into effect, THEIR ideas for an atheistic-totalitarian dictatorship.
If we intend to save the future generations, from the fate being prepared for them by the forces of evil, we must take IMMEDIATE ACTION ... THERE IS NO TIME TO LOSE.
The reader may well ask: But what action must we take ?
A. Demand monetary reforms : Because selfishness and greed, and the desire for power, are the roots from which all evil grows, it is only logical that constitutional means be instituted to take away the wealth, and curb the powers, of the leader, of all atheistic-materialistic groups who, in the first place, usurped it from the governments of the people. This being the TRUTH the tax-payers have a legal right to demand that their elected governments redress the wrongs committed against them; put an end to all forms of usury; and reimburse their treasury departments to the extent of the loans floated during the last century to fight wars fomented to further the interests of those who loaned the money and charged interest on these loans. If this advice is followed the proletariat will have restored true democracy mid the Soviet and Chinese dictators would have no excuse to disguise their imperialistic ambitions under the cloak of anti-capitalism.
B. Monetary controls : The electors must insist that the issue of money, and the control thereof, be placed back in the hands of the government where it rightfully belongs. By government is meant the top-level executive body chosen from the elected representatives because of their qualifications to conduct the affairs of the nation in an efficient and business-like manner, basing their decisions on democratic justice.
C. Punitive action : The electorate can justifiably demand that heavy penalties be imposed on all those found guilty of corruption and graft because these two evil practices are the principal means used by the agents of all revolutionary organizations to subvert, or force, others into doing their will. All subversive organizations must be outlawed and all people, proved to be members, must be made liable to punishment provided by the law. Those who advocate the violent overthrow of constitutional government do so in order that they may usurp wealth and power without having to work for it. Their punishment should therefore consist of performing manual labour and/or public services. Their hours should be extended 25 per cent beyond the union limits, and their pay should be 25 per cent below the union rates. The period of their detention should be decided by the way they improve from their negative attitude towards society and religion.
D. Diplomatic negotiations : Because the agents of the international conspiracy always work behind the scenes of government, and always use SECRET meetings and diplomacy to further their own plans and ambitions, secret negotiation should not be allowed under any circumstances. If government is to be Of the people; by the people; for the people; then the people have every right to know every detail of what is going on.
E. United Nations : Because the constitution of the United Nations comes up for revision this year, possible changes may be recommended. It is important, therefore, that all those who oppose internationalism in any form organize political pressure groups in all parties to urge that the delegates of the democratic nations do not lend themselves in any way to suggestions favoring the trial of a World Government, regardless of whether it is called a super-nationalist government or disguised in any other way. Churchills suggestions for a United States of Europe was only a move in the direction of internationalism. Only he can say whether it was intended to help the Eastern Communists or the Western capitalists.
F. Illegal traffic and trade : Because the subversive 5th columns, and undergrounds, are organized, hidden, and subsist in the underworlds of large cities, and because no revolutionary effort can hope to succeed without the full co-operation of a well organized, properly trained, fully equipped, and well disciplined 5th column, or underground organization, it is necessary that public opinion be organized to demand that all those engaged in illegal traffic and trade, or criminally connected with the underworld, shall be arrested and brought to trial regardless of what their political affiliations may be, or what position they hold in society. The public must be organized to give support to all honest police officers and law administrators. Public opinion expressed on the floor of the Houses of Parliament must insist that the underworlds be CLEANED up, and not just raided and scattered. The policy of raiding and scattering the underworld characters has only resulted in creating a hundred dens of iniquity where only one existed before. Those convicted should be treated as recommended in subsection C.
G. Defeatism : Every effort must be made to counteract the efforts of those who preach defeatism. They usually argue that there is nothing that can be done to correct the existing conditions. They suggest that since the pending fate is inevitable it is no use worrying. The attitude of the Defeatist is like that of the professional rapist who advises his intended victim that, because her fate is inevitable, she might as well relax and enjoy it.
H. Military Preparedness : Military preparedness is absolutely necessary just as long as the conditions exposed in this book are allowed to continue. Everyone who accepts the hospitality of a country, and enjoys the privileges of citizenship, should be prepared to defend that country from aggressors, be they external foes or the enemy within. The only justification for fighting a war is to prevent subjugation by the enemy on the rational argument that as long as we have Some resemblance of freedom left there is still hope that we can overcome the forces of evil and re-establish true democracy.
I. Internal Security : The best way to Strengthen the internal security of any nation is to build up a strong and efficient Civil Defense organization. To permit of rapid development Civil Defense should be made part and parcel of the national internal security, system. As such, it should be a Federal project and responsibility. This suggestion is particularly applicable to Canada because the Minister of Justice. supported by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, is charged with the responsibility for the nations internal security.
Civil Defense is the organizing and training of the civilian population into auxiliary units to augment the regular departments which render public service during normal conditions. Civil Defense workers are trained how, to protect themselves, and the communities in which they live, in the event of attack by an enemy. Because our only potential enemies use their 5th Column and underground organizations to overthrow the constituted government by revolutionary action, and subjugate the population by means of terrorism, it stands to common sense that Civil Defense should be organized as a counter-revolutionary organization. The Civil Defense special police, and intelligence units, should therefore be trained under the supervision of the R.C.M.P. so they could co-operate with them to ensure our internal security during any emergency.
