# Pawns in the Game - 16

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/pawns_inthegame/pawns_16.htm

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
The Events Leading up to World War Two
It has been told how the international bankers enabled Germany to secretly re-arm, with the aid of Stalin, in spite of the restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles. In order to understand what happened in Germany to bring Hitler into power, it is necessary to be familiar with the political intrigue which went on between 1924 and 1934. The Secret Powers always have had their agents divide the population of countries. They plan to subjugate into many religious, economic, political, social, and labour groups. Their agents then divide the various groups into as many factions as possible. Their motto is United we stand. Divided they fall.
Most German citizens, excepting only Communists, were agreed upon the following issues: That Germany had been winning the war when had she had first been betrayed and afterwards victimized. That the national money-lenders had used the so-called democracies of Britain, France, and the United States, to defeat Germanys armed forces. That the Jewish-led Communist Party assisted the international bankers by bringing about the chaotic conditions that preceded the signing of the Armistice and the revolution that followed. They agree that every patriotic German male and female, should do his or her uttermost to build up post-war Germany, and break the economic and military stranglehold placed on their nation by the Treaty of Versailles.
Most political leaders, except Communists, were also agreed that in order to free themselves of the economic sanctions imposed upon the nation, it was necessary to break away from their dependence on the international bankers for financial assistance in the form of interest bearing loans. In other words, most German politicians, except Communists, were agreed that Germany should depart from the practice of financing the nations business by incurring debts, a practice which had been imposed upon England in 1694, France in 1790, and the United States in 1791, by the International bankers. They realized that this system had resulted in astronomical National Debts, the principal and interest payments on which were guaranteed and secured by Direct Taxation of the people.
The Fascist leaders in Germany decided they were going to create their own money and use their national assets, such as the value of their real estate, their industrial potentials, their agricultural production, natural resources, and the nations capacity to produce, as collateral.
The people of Germany found that, generally speaking, their views regarding future political and economic policy were shared by the people of Italy, Spain, and Japan, and thus came into being THE AXIS POWERS, and the Fascist Movement. Because of their dynamic personalities, Hitler, Mussolini and Franco became the chosen leaders. History proves that these three men did a great deal to help their countries recover from the effects of the preceding revolutions and wars. The industrial and agricultural developments were little short of miraculous. Their military rearmament was made possible by the secret assistance given by the agentur of the Illuminati who planned to bring the Fascist and Capitalistic countries into another World War.
When Hitler and Mussolini first rose to power they advocated the moderate Fascist policy which demanded that the wrongs done their countries be rectified; that they contain communism; and curb the powers of the Illuminati who controlled finance and industry. But as time went on, both Hitler and Mussolini came under the influence of the leaders of the hard core of Nazi War Lords who claimed the only way to establish a permanent peace in the world was by military conquest. The Nazi leaders sold the top-military leaders in Italy and Japan solidly on the theories and plans advocated by Karl Ritter in 1849. Franco in Spain refused to go along with their totalitarian plans. His religious beliefs convinced him that an ideology which denied the existence of an Almighty God was doing the work of the Devil.
The Totalitarian minded leaders in Germany, Italy, and Japan were determined to use Fascism to further their secret Long Range Plans in exactly the same way as their opponents, the international bankers, used Communism. The immediate plans of the War Lords were to first, defeat the Stalin-controlled Empire; second, wipe out Communism in Europe; third, consolidate the control of the Axis Powers on Continental Europe; fourth, invade Britain and France and subjugate the people, and fifth, to invade and conquer the United States by using two vast pincer movements. Japan was to land invading forces on the west coast of Mexico in the south and in the Northwest Territories in the north. Germany was to invade Canada by air in the North and the German-Italian forces were to jump the Atlantic from Africa, and attack the U.S.A. from South America and the Gulf of Mexico.
The Northern invading forces were scheduled to join together at a point in the vicinity of Chicago and push on down the Mississippi while the South-West and South-East invasion forces were to meet at New Orleans and push north up the Mississippi, thus dividing the country into two halves.[1]
With the conquest of Britain and the United States the Nazis planned to exterminate the Jews living in these two countries as they had exterminated those they located in Europe. The international bankers, and big capitalists controlled by them, were listed for immediate liquidation, together with confiscation of all their assets and estates.
While Hitler suffered imprisonment prior to 1934 because he was considered the personal enemy of the Nazi War Lords and the international bankers, he wrote Mein Kampf. On the very last page he stated: The party (National-Socialist) as such stands for positive Christianity but does not bind itself in the matter of creed to any profession. It combats the Jewish materialistic spirit within and without us.
In 1933 Hitler also announced his policy in regard to Britain. He pointed out that Marx, Lenin, and Stalin had all repeatedly reiterated that before International communism could reach its final objectives, Britain and her Empire had to be destroyed. Under these circumstances Hitler said: I am willing to help defend the British Empire by force if called upon.
Of the Treaty of Versailles Hitler wrote: It was not a British interest (intention) but, in the first place, a Jewish one to destroy Germany. He also wrote: Even in England there is a continual struggle going on between the representatives of British States interests and the Jewish World dictatorship. Whilst England is exhausting herself in maintaining her position in the world, the Jew to-day is a rebel in England and the struggle against the Jewish world menace will be started there also.
Hitler never wavered from his personal opinion that the survival of Germany as a great power depended upon an alliance with the British Empire. In 1936 he instituted proceedings to try to bring about this alliance. He arranged for unofficial conversations to take place between German and British diplomats, and after the meetings failed to produce the alliance he so greatly desired, he said: No sacrifice would have been too great in order to gain Englands alliance. It would have meant renunciation of our colonies; and importance as a sea power; and refraining from interference with British industry by competition.[2]
He considered all these German concessions would have been worthwhile if only he had been able to bring about the German-British alliance. His failure to bring about the British Alliance caused him to weaken in his opposition to the totalitarian ideology as advocated by the extreme Nazi War Lords. The failure of the conference convinced Hitler that no moderate policy would ever break the control the international bankers had over British Foreign policy. He reluctantly began to concede that Karl Ritter had been right when he said:
The power the Jewish financiers hold over Communism must be destroyed, as well as of those who are members of the world revolutionary movement, before peace and economic freedom can be restored to the world.
The purpose of this book is to record the events in history which provided the Causes which produced the Effects we experience to-day. We are not concerned with the Rights or Wrongs of the decisions made by individuals, except to judge for ourselves whether the decisions furthered the Devils Plan or were in accordance with the Plan of God. The only value of historical research is to obtain knowledge of how, and why, mistakes were made in the past so we can try to avoid making similar mistakes in the future.
The momentous meeting regarding the possibility of an alliance between Great Britain and Germany took place in January 1936. Lord Londonderry represented the British government and Goering, Herr Ribbentrop, and Hitler, Germany.
An authority on this phase of history informed me that Herr Goering and Herr Von Ribbentrop outlined the history of the World Revolutionary Movement to Lord Londonderry, explaining the detailed research work done by Professor Karl Ritter and others. They reasoned that the only successful way to fight a totalitarian-minded conspiracy was to use Total War. They explained to Lord Londonderry their plan was to attack all Communist-controlled countries; liberate the people, and execute all Communist traitors. They claimed the only way to wipe out Communism was the extermination of the whole Jewish Race.[3] They produced masses of documented evidence which, they claimed, was authentic, to prove Communism was organized, financed, and directed by powerful,wealthy and influential Jews, who also organized, financed and directed secret ambitions to bring about the Messianic Age.[4]
Hitler is said to have promised that he would continue to oppose the extreme totalitarian plans of the Nazi War Lords and confine his activities against Communism to Europe, providing the British government would enter into an alliance with Germany. When Lord Londonderry said he doubted if the British government would take part in a plan to abolish Communism, which called for Genocide, Hitler compromised. He said Germany would undertake the task alone provided England would enter into an agreement that the two countries would under no circumstances war against each other for ten years. Hitler argued that the only way Britain, France, and Russia could shake off the unbearable and ruinous burden of ever-increasing national debts was to repudiate them and restore the issuing of money to the government where it originally and rightfully belonged.
Hitler is said to have pointed out that the purpose of his National-Socialist party ... call it Fascism ... was to put an end at once, and all time, to the power and influence the international money-lenders exerted on national and international affairs by reason of the fact that they were forcing every nation that still claimed to be independent, further and further into their debt. He is said to have quoted what Benjamin Disraeli made one of his characters say in his famous book Coningsby, So you see, dear Coningsby, the world is governed by very different personages from what is imagined by those who are not behind the scenes.[5]
Goering is said to have backed up the Führer by pointing out that history had proved that the wealthy and influential Jews had obtained economic and political control of every country into which they had infiltrated by using illegal methods and corrupt practices.
Herr Von Ribbentrop is reported to have supported Goerings arguments by reminding Lord Londonderry that as recently as 1927-28 when he was in Canada, the Stevens Royal Commission into the Canadian Customs Service proved that the country was being robbed annually of over ONE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS by smuggling and other kinds of illegal traffic and trade organized and directed from an International Headquarters. He pointed out that evidence placed before the Royal Commissioner had proved that in order to get away with gangsterism and licentiousness to Fix thousands of public servants and hundreds of government officials, even as high as cabinet level.
He pointed out that what had been absolutely proved to exist in Canada was ten times as bad in the United States of America. Ribbentrop reasoned that the only way to clean up the mess was to Get the three hundred men at the top who were The Secret Power master-minding the negative forces whose various evil influences, and criminal activities, all furthered the Long Range Plan of those who directed the World Revolutionary Movement.[6]
Goering is said to have reviewed once more the part the international bankers had played in bringing about, directing, and financing the Russian revolution in 1917, which had enabled them to bring into existence the adverse conditions being experienced throughout the world at that time.[7]
Hitler reminded Lord Londonderry of the millions of Christians who had been ruthlessly slaughtered in the Communized countries since October, 1917, and argued that the men responsible could not be considered as anything else than international gangsters.
The final item of discussion was the manner in which Stalin had been instructed to turn Spain into a Communist dictatorship. The whole pattern of international intrigue was laid bare. The manner in which Germany had been enabled to secretly re-arm: The way French politics were controlled by Grand Orient Freemasonry.[8] The manner in which Britain had been persuaded to disarm, while her potential enemies were being re-armed.
According to the Germans, it would be impossible for the world to enjoy peace and prosperity as long as those who directed the World Revolutionary Movement insisted on fomenting wars in order to create conditions favourable for revolutionary action. They argued both international Communism and political Zionism had to be stopped and the movements ended at once, or another war was inevitable, because the Secret Powers, pulling the strings, were determined they were going to reach their ultimate objectives.
Hitler was a great orator, and my informant claimed he ended the discussions with a plea that Lord Londonderry return to England and persuade the British government to join in the suggested alliance with Germany because I am convinced that the British Empire and the Roman Catholic Church are both universal institutions, the continuance of which is absolutely essential as bulwarks for the preservation of law and order throughout the world in the future.
What has been said here of Hitler is so absolutely foreign to the general idea that the following historical facts and documents are quoted to support what has been said :
Lord Londonderry returned to London following the conference and made his report to the British cabinet. On February 21st, 1936, he wrote Herr Von Ribbentrop. He referred to the conversations he had had.
The letter reads in part :
They (Hitler and Goering) forget that here (in England) we have not experienced the devastation of a revolution for several centuries... In relation to the Jews ... we do not like persecution, but in addition to this, there is the material feeling that you are taking on a tremendous force which is capable of having repercussions all over the world ... it is possible to trace their participation in most of these international disturbances which have created so much havoc in different countries, but on the other hand, one can find many Jews strongly ranged on the other side who have done their best, with the wealth at their disposal, and also by their influence, to counteract those malevolent and mischievous activities of fellow Jews.[9]
After Hitler realized his hopes to bring about an alliance between Germany and Britain had failed, he leaned further and further to the Right. He became convinced that it was impossible for an individual, groups of individuals, or even a single nation to break the power and influence the international bankers exercised over the so-called democratic nations by reason of their financial control and the encumbrance of their national debts.
In July, 1936, the Spanish Civil War broke out and Hitler, Mussolini and Franco were drawn closer together. It was the fact that Franco had had to start a Civil War in Spain to prevent Spain being Communized without a struggle, that caused Hitler to round out his boundaries and concentrate military power on his borders. He was determined to make sure that Stalin, who he knew was only the agent of the international bankers appointed to rule over Russia, would not extend his dictatorship over other European countries.
Every step Hitler took in the direction was termed Acts of aggression by the anti-Fascist press. Hitler explained such moves as preventive wars or occupations. He stated that he was primarily concerned in preventing Stalin establishing his sphere of influence on or about the 40th parallel of latitude in Europe. If he was allowed to, Germany, Britain, and other northern European countries would be entrapped like flies in a spiders web.
Hitler had not only failed to bring about the British alliance, but he had earned the enmity of the Nazi War Lords who advocated totalitarian methods for solving the very complicated and dangerous problem. They did not want an alliance with England. They did not want to see Christianity flourish. They did not agree with Hitlers preventive measures. They didnt agree with anything Hitler did to hinder their plans to wage Total War, first against Russia, then against Britain and France.
The hard core of the pagan Nazi War Lords demanded that Hitler take offensive action, as the best defense against gradual encroachment by Communist underground and Stalins armed forces. When Hitler refused to go all the way with them, they decided to get rid of him. The first attempt was made on his life. The Nazi War Lords next tried to weaken the control he had gained over the German people.
They launched a campaign to sell their Aryan Pagan ideology to the German people. They taught the superiority of the Aryan Race. They advocated war to establish the undisputed supremacy of the Aryan State. They made it a fundamental principle that all men and women of Aryan blood should give unlimited obedience to the Head of the Aryan State and acknowledge no mortal as above him. This campaign was attributed to Hitler, and the anti-Fascist press throughout the world cried to high heaven that Hitler was a pagan, and a Black-shirted totalitarian-minded Nazi War Lord. Thus started the clashes between both Catholic and Protestant clergy and the state. The clergy condemned the Nazi ideology on the grounds that those who preached it were preaching the deification of men.
The Nazi leaders charged that both Catholic and Protestant clergy were breaking the laws and defying the authority of the state. The Roman Catholic and Protestant bishops replied by stating the extreme Nazi doctrines were antagonistic and contrary to the Divine Plan of Creation. The Nazi leaders countered with the argument that the Church had no right to interfere in matters of state.
Hitler tried to pacify the clergy by banning the Grand Orient Lodges which were known to be the headquarters of the Aryan extremists throughout Germany. The Nazi leaders rendered this step abortive changing them over to Orders of German Chivalry.
Hitler, in order to maintain a united front against Communism, tried to pacify the Nazis by issuing an edict that any clergyman preaching against the laws of the state, or questioning its supremacy, would be subjected to the full process of the law and, if found guilty, would suffer the penalties provided for such crimes. This situation provides another example of how the forces of evil divided two powerful forces which were both combating a common enemy.
The anti-Fascist propaganda made the most of the disagreement between Hitler and the Pope. It is true Pope Pius XI denounced Nazism in no uncertain terms in the Encyclical of March 14th, 1937 on the condition of the Church in Germany. He told Roman Catholics that he had weighed every word of the encyclical in the scales of truth and clarity.
In reference to the Nazi conception of the superiority of the Aryan race and the supremacy of the state he said:
While it is true that the race or the people; the state or a form of government; the representatives of a civil power, or other fundamental elements of human society have an essential and honourable place in the natural order, nevertheless, if anyone detaches them from this scale of earthly values and exalts them as the supreme form and standard of all things, even of religious values, deifying them with idolatrous worship, he perverts and falsifies the order of things created and constituted by God, and is far from true faith in God, and from a conception of life in conformity therewith... Our God is a personal God, transcendent, Almighty, Infinite, Perfect.
One in the Trinity of Persons and three in the unity of the Divine Essence; creator of the universe; Lord; King; and ultimate purpose of the history of the world; who does not suffer and can never suffer any other divinity besides Him ... Only superficial minds can fall into the error of speaking of a National God, of a National Religion, of foolishly attempting to restrict within the narrow confines of a single race that God, who is the Creator of the world, the King and Law-Giver of all peoples, before Whose greatness the nations are as small as drops of water in a bucket (Isaias XL-15).
In a pastoral letter dated August 19th, 1938, the bishops of Germany struck out boldly against Nazi ideology. The letter says that the attitude of the Nazi towards the Christian religion in Germany is in open contradiction with the Fuehrers assertions...[10]
What is aimed at is not merely the checking of the growth of the Catholic Church but the wiping out of Christianity and the setting up in its place of a religion which is utterly alien to the Christian belief in One True God.
The letter goes on to point out that the Nazi attack on Dr. Sproll, the Protestant bishop of Rottenburg, clearly proved that the persecution is directed not only against the Catholic Church but against the whole Christian idea as such... An attempt is being made to get rid of the Christian God in order to replace Him with a German God. What does a German God mean ? Is He different from the God of other peoples ? If so, then there must be a special God for each nation and for each people... This is the same as saying There is no God.[11]
What happened in Germany in 1936 has happened in other countries since. The leaders of Black Naziism joined forces with the leaders of Red Communism in an attack on both the Christian religion and the British Empire. The totalitarian-minded Nazi War Lords initiated their followers into the German Grand Orient Lodges, using the ancient pagan rites and ritual handed down from the time the barbaric Aryan tribes and the Huns swept over Europe. The totalitarian-minded men who direct international Communism initiate their leaders into the Grand Orient Lodges of other countries using the ancient Cabalistic Rites of Illuminism.
To understand this situation, it is necessary to recall that Jews have never, under any circumstances, been admitted into the German Grand Orient Lodges since 1785 when the papers found on the body of the Courier of the Illuminati, who was killed by lightning at Ratisbon, were handed over by the police to the Bavarian authorities, and proved that the Grand Orient Lodges in France were being used as the secret headquarters of the Jewish inspired revolutionary movement.
When complicated situations such as these develop, it can be understood why the Roman Catholic Church has taken such a definite stand against Black Nazism, while tolerating the less extreme forms of Fascism, i.e. anti-Communism as practiced by Franco in Spain. It also explains why Cardinal Mindszenty collaborated with allegedly Fascist leaders who attempted to overthrow Communist domination in his country.
Franco has consistently refused to go off the deep end. He refused to support German Nazism in World War Two simply because the extreme Nazi Pagan War Lords had become all powerful in Germany. In Germany, Italy, France, Spain, and Japan, millions of citizens, peaceful by inclination and charitable at heart, found themselves in the position of having to decide whether they became actively Pro-Fascist or Pro-Communist. They were given Hobsons Choice. They usually picked what they considered the lesser of two evils. They were immediately labeled accordingly.
By diabolical intrigue the nations of the world were being lined up for World War Two. The Russian dictatorship was secretly rearming the German armies. The Italian dictatorship, under Mussolini, was secretly building a huge navy of submarines to German specification and design. These submarines were tested out under conditions of actual warfare during the Spanish Civil War. These tests proved the German designed submarines were, in 1936, practically immune to British anti-submarine weapons including Asdic.
The British government was informed in regard to this matter. Captain Max Morton, R.N., had emphasized the warnings being given by evading all the anti-submarine devices used for the protection of the British Mediterranean fleet while it was at anchor. He actually got into the guarded harbor and, in theory, sank half a dozen capital ships as they rode to their anchors. This act of Captain Max Morton brought him condemnation from the British Civil Sea Lords instead of praise and recognition. His promotion was held up, and he was silenced. He was not allowed to take a very active part in British naval affairs until 1940. When German U-boats threatened to starve Britain into submission he was asked to take over direction of the anti-submarine Battle of the Atlantic.
The British government was warned as early as 1930 that German-designed submarines had dived deeper than 500 feet, thus rendering obsolete all depth-charges then in use. They were warned that Asdic gear then in use was also obsolete. But they refused to heed the warnings. The Secret Powers were using their agents within the British government to weaken the British war potential, while they were secretly strengthening that of Germany. When the war broke out, Britain did not have one single modern anti-submarine ocean escort vessel in service. As a result she lost 75 per cent of her merchant ships, and over 40,000 seamen, before the tide turned in her favor in April, 1943.[12]
Hitler antagonized the international bankers when he announced his financial policy and monetary reform programme. He persuaded Italy, Spain, and Japan to back him in his determination to challenge the power of the Cartels and Monopolies financed and controlled by the international bankers, particularly their Brain-child, the Bank of International Settlements. The German Reich abrogated the clause in the constitution which made Dr. Hans Luther, the president of the Reichsbank, a permanent fixture. Until the change was made, the president of the Reichsbank could not be removed without his own consent and a majority vote of the board of the Bank of International Settlements.
Since the Great War the international bankers had set up twenty-six central banks. They were modeled after the Federal Reserve Banks in the United States, which had been established in 1913 according to the theories of Mr. Paul Warburg, the German who had gone to America in 1907 and become a partner in Kuhn-Loeb & Co. of New York.
Mr. Paul Warburgs creation of 1913 had been steadily attempting to set up a Central Banking Organization which would acknowledge no authority on this planet as above it. Hitler knew that if Warburg and associates had their way, the Bank of International Settlements would become as autocratic as the bank of England is in regard to British National Affairs and Foreign Policy. Politicians and statesmen were being asked to believe this bankers dream would stabilize the banking system of the world. In this contention they were absolutely correct.
The nigger-in-the-gold-pile is the fact, that with the realization of this dream, all hope of freedom and plenty for the individual and private industry would automatically disappear. The citizens of the world would have the same financial security as the criminal who enjoys social security behind bars. Against this process of reducing the people of the world to financial slavery Hitler decided to take a definite stand, and he refused to allow Germany to be merged into the league of Monopolist States, secretly controlled by agents of the Illuminati.
After Paul Warburgs Federal Reserve System had been in operation three years i.e. 1913 to 1916, President Woodrow Wilson [Rosicrucian; bought and paid for by the money power; who signed the Federal Reserve Act; who by hook and crook and lies dragged the US into WWI; after four years of his own presidency, during his electioneering] summed up the economic situation in the United States of America as follows :
A great industrial nation is controlled by its system of credits. Our system of credit is concentrated. The growth of the nation, therefore, and all our activities are in the hands of a few men... We have come to be one of the worst ruled; one of the most completely controlled and dominated governments, in the civilized world... no longer a government by conviction and the free vote of the majority, but a government by the opinion and duress of small groups of dominant men.
That is actually what modern so-called democracy really means.[13]
When the countries of the Western World were plunged into the economic depression of the 1930s, out of which only another war could lift them, President Franklin D. Roosevelt [Marxist, fomentor of WWII] said :
Sixty families in America control the wealth of the nation... One-third of the nations population is ill-housed, ill-fed, and ill-clad... Twenty per cent of the men working on W.P.A. projects are in such an advanced state of malnutrition that they cannot do a days work... I intend to drive the money changers from the Temple.
[But he did not drive any of them anywhere, but introduced the new deal]
Roosevelt knew that unless he could drive the international bankers out of the modern temple of international finance only a full scale World War could relieve the chronic condition of financial constipation they had brought about on an international scale by withdrawing currency, restricting credits, and other financial manipulations. They grew richer while everyone outside their select circle grew steadily poorer. But soon Roosevelt was docile.
President Roosevelt found he couldnt break, or even curb, the power of the Illuminati. He was forced to lead his country into war against the only countries who held firm to the very policy he had so rashly announced soon after he was elected to office. And, after he had grown haggard and grey doing the bidding of the men whose money and influence had placed him in the office of president of the United States, he allegedly died in the home of the richest, and most powerful man in the United States ... Bernard Baruch...
A man above all others who, for the past forty years at least, has sat quietly in the background but was acknowledged the king over all American bankers and undoubtedly one of the select few who, in our time, has been The Secret Power behind the scenes of international affairs. If this were not so, why does Winston Churchill and his son visit him so often ? Why did Winston Churchill make his momentous announcements regarding his attitude towards political Zionism and peaceful co-existence immediately after his visit to Bernard Baruch in 1954 ?
It is unfortunate, but true, that to-day democracy is a very deceptive word. It is used to describe all countries which are in fact a money-lenders heaven. Today countries which are termed democratic follow a monetary system devised by the international bankers, under which currency originates in debt to groups of private individuals who manipulate the price levels of different countries and use money as a stable value facilitating the exchange of REAL WEALTH. Britain, France, and the United States are termed democratic countries only because they are linked together in debt to the international money-lenders. The Communist countries also call themselves democratic republics and they are entitled to do so as long as they also are controlled by the same international financial groups.
//* Interestingly, those so-called Communist countries had state-owned and controlled central banks, and used state-issued paper currency, backed by nothing but their own credit.
When the Axis Powers in Europe refused to place themselves in usury to the international bankers, they placed themselves in exactly the same category as the small independent store keeper is in relation to the big chain-store organizations and business combines and monopolies. They were given the option of joining the big Happy Family ... or else. In the case of an independent store keeper, if he refuses to see the light he is put out of business by systematically applied pressure of unfair competition. In the case of nations who refuse to play-ball, they are doomed to suffer war or revolution. There is no mercy shown to the nations whose leaders refuse to bow down and worship at the feet of Mammon. There is no consideration given to nations which refuse to place themselves in usury to the High Priests of the God of Mammon. All must pay the tribute demanded of them ... or else.
World War Two was started in order to enable the Illuminati to finally rid themselves of the barriers of caste and creed and prejudice. Their ideas regarding a new civilization had to be built through a world at war. In proof of the above statement a portion of the broadcast Sir Anthony Eden addressed to America on September 11th, 1939, is quoted. He said :
Can we finally rid Europe of the barriers of caste and creed and prejudice ? ... Our new civilization must be built through a world at war. But our new civilization will be built just the same.
What utter rot. Wars are destructive not constructive.
From 1930 onwards, informed and influential Britishers had been doing everything within their power to try to prevent England and her allies being inveigled into another war with Germany. As was to be expected, everyone of these people was attacked by the anti-Fascist agencies as being black totalitarian-minded Nazis.
Some of the British who opposed Communism and also the continued subservience of the British government to the international bankers openly declared themselves in favor of the Fascist principles as expounded by Franco and Hitler. This group was led by Sir Oswald Mosley. Others, mostly statesmen, retired admirals, and generals, worked quietly trying to inform politicians and members of the government regarding the purpose behind the international intrigue.
The anti-Semitic movement started in England early in 1921, after Mr. Victor E. Marsden returned from Russia where he had been imprisoned by the Bolsheviks. Mr. Marsden had been correspondent in Russia for the London Morning Post since before 1914. When Mr. Marsden returned to England he was in possession of the document which Professor Sergei Nilus had published in Russian in 1905 under the title Jewish Peril. Professor Nilus claimed the original documents had been obtained from a woman who had stolen them from a wealthy international Jew when he returned to her apartments after addressing top-level executives of the Grand Orient Lodges in Paris in 1901.
While Mr. Marsden was translating the documents he received a warning that if he persisted in publishing the book he would die. Mr. Marsden published his translation of the documents under the title Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion and he did die under suspicious circumstances a few years afterwards.
Following the publication of the book by the Britons Publishing Society, Mr. Marsden was denounced internationally as a bare faced anti-Semitic liar. The book caused one of the greatest controversies the world has ever known. My own research work has caused me to believe that the documents published by professor Nilus in Russia in 1905 as Jewish Peril and by Mr. Marsden in England in 1921 as Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion are the long range plans of the Illuminati which was explained by Amschel Rothschild to his associates in Frankfort in 1773.
Rothschild was not addressing rabbis and elders. He was addressing bankers, industrialists, scientists, economists, etc. Therefore to charge this diabolical conspiracy as a crime against the whole Jewish people and their religious leaders is unjust. I am supported in this opinion by one of the highest ranking intelligence Officers in the British Service. He studied the matter in Russia, Germany, and England.
That the document which fell into the hands of Professor Nilus had been used as material for lectures to instruct leaders of the W.R.M. cannot be doubted because in addition to the original outline of the conspiracy there are additional remarks which explain how the plot had been put into effect; and how Darwinism, Marxism, and Neitzche-ism had been used since 1773. Mention is also made saying how it was intended to use political Zionism to service the purpose of the W.R.M. in the future ... the Illuminati.
The term Agentur contained in the document would seem to indicate an individual; a group; a race; a nation; a creed; or any other agency that could be used as a tool or an instrument to further the Long Range Plan of the Illuminati for ultimate world domination.
Regardless of its origin, no person who has read it can deny that the trend of world events has followed the programme suggested in the document from 1773 to date. No one can be otherwise than amazed at the deadly accuracy of the forecast made in the document.
To give only one glaring instance of many. The document outlines how Zionism shall be aided to reach its objectives. Theodore Herzl was the founder of the Zionist Movement. He is recorded as saying :
From the first moment I entered the Zionist movement my eyes were directed towards England, because I saw by reason of the general conditions there the Archimedean point where the lever could be applied.
Then again : When we sink (the we referring to Zionists) we become a revolutionary proletariat; the subordinate officers of the revolutionary party; when we rise, there rises also our terrible power of the purse.[14]
More amazing still, and getting back to near the time the document came into professor Niluss possession, Max Nordeu, addressing the Zionist Congress held in Basel, Switzerland, August 1903, is quoted as saying :
Let me tell you the following words as if I were showing you the rungs of a ladder leading upward and upward... The Zionist Congress : The English Uganda proposition : The future World War : The Peace Conference where, with the help of England, a free and Jewish Palestine will be created.
The fact to remember is this these men who were outstanding leaders of the Zionist Movement probably spoke in all sincerity. History proves, however, that the small select group, who have in the past, and still do, comprise The Secret Power behind the World Revolutionary Movement, have used both Communism and Zionism to further their own selfish totalitarian ambitions.
The contents of the document translated by Mr. Marsden detail the Party Line as followed by the Bolshevik revolutionary leaders under the leadership of Lenin and Stalin, just as it details the policy followed by the leaders of the Zionist movement. Lord Sydenham read the document and then remarked : The most striking characteristic ... is knowledge of a rare kind, embracing the widest field ... knowledge upon which prophesies now fulfilled are based.
Henry Ford studied this document. He had many outstanding and learned men study it also. He published a book of amazing disclosures, all of which add up to the sum total that the document details the plan by which a small group of international financiers have used, and still use, Communism, Zionism, and all other agencies they can control, regardless of whether they be Jewish or Gentile, to further their own secret totalitarian ambitions.
Mr. Henry Ford was interviewed in regard to the document by a reporter of the New York World. His comments were published February 17th, 1921. He said :
The only statement I care to make about the Protocols is that they fit in with what is going on. They are sixteen years old, and they have fitted the world situation up to this time. They fit it now.
Mr. Ford made his statement thirty-four years ago and what he said then is equally applicable to-day. This should prove to any unbiased person that the document is a genuine copy of the originally conceived plan which has been put into practice. It has almost achieved the purpose for which it was intended.
One may well ask How long are the people going to stand for such a state of affairs? Revolution is not the answer. Revolution only plays into the hands of the powers of evil. Only the indignant voice of the masses of all free nations can insist that their elected representatives end the totalitarian plans of the money-lenders before they reach their goal.
From 1921 to 1927 Mr. Marsden remained in the employ of the Morning Post. He had many friends but he had made powerful enemies. In 1927 he was chosen to accompany the Prince of Wales on his Tour of the Empire. It is very unlikely that Mr. Marsden failed to avail himself of this opportunity to inform His Royal Highness in regard to the document and the manner in which international financiers were involved in international intrigue and the Communist and Zionist movements. When the Prince of Wales returned from his tour of the Empire he was a very changed man.
He was no longer A gay young blade. He was much more matured and had assumed the serious role of Good Will Ambassador of the British Empire. It may be pure coincidence, but Mr. Marsden, whose health had improved greatly during his travels abroad, took suddenly ill the day after he arrived back in England and died a few days later. It reminds one of what Mr. E. Scudder wrote regarding the death of Mirabeau in his book The Diamond Necklace. King Louis of France was not ignorant of the fact that Mirabeau had been poisoned. Mirabeau died because he had told the king of France who the real instigators of the French Revolution were.
Everyone who has had the privilege of knowing the present Duke of Windsor knows how deeply he was affected by his experiences at The Front during the 1914-1918 war. He insisted on spending a great deal of time in the Front Lines cheering and encouraging the troops. He won their admiration and loyalty, and in return he loved and respected his future subjects who fought so well and died so bravely.
After the tour of the Empire, His Royal Highness took a great interest in social and economic problems. He visited the coal mining districts and entered the miners homes. He chatted with miners and their families regarding their problems. He wanted to dispense with many of the frills which encumber royal ceremonial proceedings. He had the audacity to disagree when statesmen and politicians tendered him advice he knew was unsound. He dared to express his opinions in regard to Foreign Affairs. He was alert and opposed to any proposed government policy which might play into the hands of The Secret Powers and lead the country into another war.
After he was proclaimed king, January 20th, 1936, he took his responsibilities even more seriously. He didnt intend to be just another king on the international chess-board, to be moved here and there at the will of the Powers-behind-the-throne, until he had been maneuvered into a position of stalemate or checkmate. It became quite evident he had a mind and a will of his own. A king with his knowledge and characteristics can be a serious obstacle to the men who are determined to have affairs of State managed according to their plans. He had to be got rid of.
From the time he became associated with Mr. Marsden be had been subjected to a modern version of LInfamie. A whispering campaign of slander hinted that he was wild and inclined to licentious conduct. He was accused of leaning to the Right and being associated with Sir Oswald Mosleys Fascist movement.[15]
When his friendship with Mrs. Wally Simpson was discovered, the full power of the leftist press was turned loose on them and, regardless of his position, the vilest insinuations were made, and the worst possible construction placed on their relationship. This was exactly the kind of situation his enemies could use to further their own unscrupulous plane, The Prime Minister of Great Britain was given his orders. In 1936 Mr. Baldwin carried out their mandate in regard to King Edward VIIIs abdication in exactly the same way Messrs Lloyd George, Churchill and Balfour had carried out their mandate in regard to the Palestine Mandate in 1919.
King Edward was maneuvered into a position in which he either had to make Mrs. Simpson his Morganatic wife, and lose the love and affection of his subjects, or he had to abdicate and marry her. He took the only course a gentleman could take under the circumstances.
The reader may wonder why the document over which there is so much controversy cropped up in 1901. The answer is to be found in the fact that the artificially created depression in 1893 brought about conditions favorable to war. The international bankers met in London to consolidate their position, and work out the details for the Boer War. They considered this war necessary in order to obtain control of the African gold fields and diamond mines. The Jameson Raid took place as scheduled January 1st, 1896. This led to the most unjustifiable war the British have ever fought. Winston Churchill hot-footed it to Africa to act as observer. Officially he was a war correspondent. A great deal regarding this period of history remains to be written.
The details leading to the Spanish-American War had to be worked out. This war gave the American bankers control over sugar production in Cuba. More important still was the business that had to be transacted in regard to the war scheduled to take place between Russia and Japan in 1904. This business was very complicated. Matters had to be so arranged. that while the Rothschilds financed the Russians, Kuhn-Loeb and Co. of New York financed the Japanese, An understanding had to be reached by which both groups made money while the Russian Empire was weakened, and made ready for the Menshevist revolution scheduled to take place in 1905.
While the international bankers met in the financial district of London, the leaders of the World Revolutionary Movement met in the slum-district of the same city. Lenin received his orders. He was told how he should manage the various revolutionary groups so that independent action on their part would not seriously interfere with the overall plans of those who directed the W.R.M.
It has been proved that the Directors of the W.R.M. used the heads of the Grand Orient Lodges in France, and other countries, to further their revolutionary plans, therefore it is reasonable to suppose that an agent was sent from London to Paris in 1900 or 1901 to instruct the top-level executives of the Grand Orient Lodges in regard to the part they were to play to bring about the programme of wars and revolutions agreed upon, in exactly the same way they had sent the agent who was killed in Ratisbon, from Frankfort to Paris in 1785. It is just another illustration of how and why history repeats itself.
__________________
1 This military plan had been in existence since before 1914 and was reported to the Allied Governments fighting World War One by intelligence officers of both the British and American armed forces. The plan is explained in detail in Hells Angels of the Deep and Check Mate in the North by W.G. Carr.
2 This statement and others of a similar nature prove that Hitler never had accepted or agreed with the extreme Nazi War-Lords Long Range Plan for World domination by Military conquest.
3 Once again rabid anti-Semitism shows itself and yet history proves that the International conspirators have used every race and creed to serve their own secret and selfish ambitions.
4 Most of this evidence is reproduced in The Palestine Plot by B. Jensen, printed by John McKinley, 11-15 King Street, Perth, Scotland.
5 The book Coningsby was published in 1844 just before Karl Marx published The Communist Manifesto. At that time several revolutions were being planned and took place immediately after Karl Marxs book appeared in print.
6 Ribbentrop was evidently quoting from an article Weiner Freie Presse published December 14th, 1912 by the late Walter Rathenau in which he said, Three hundred men, each of whom is known to all the others, govern the fate of the European Continent and they elect their successors from their own entourage. These are the Illuminati.
7 Most countries of the world were mired deep in economic depression.
8 Hitler closed all Grand Orient Lodges in Germany.
9 Quoted from the Evening Standard, London, dated April 28, 1936. For further particulars regarding Lord Londonderrys conversations with Hitler, Goering, and Von Ribbentrop read Ourselves and Germany published by Lord Londonderry.
10 For the full text of these letters read, The Rulers of Russia by Rev. Fr. Fahey pp. 64-70.
11 The opening paragraph of this letter confirmed the opinion reached by the author i.e. the extreme Nazi plan was at variance with Hitlers plan.
12 The author personally informed both the Canadian Chief of Naval Staff, the First Lord of the Admiralty and other government officials regarding this sorry state of affairs.
13 For further particulars regarding international finance read Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt by Professor Soddy, pp. 290 and on.
14 Theodore Herzl in A Jewish State (Judenstaat) re-quoted from p. 45 of The Palestine Plot by B. Jensen.
15 As recently as November 1954, this old slander regarding the Duke of Windows connection with Fascism was revived. He was accused in the Press of having given secret information to German officials regarding allied defenses and plans in 1936. This he vigorously denied.
