# pipeline

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/master_file/pipeline.htm

A
SPECIAL GIFT!
FOR
YOU
FROM
COSMIC AWARENESS
Simple Meditation and Healing Techniques
"A Way To Stay Centered"
This Awareness wishes at this time to send healing energies to all entities
who are recipients of messages from this Awareness; that this in part to help
offset any fears or anxieties that have been generated by or may have led to
fears and anxieties as a result of the readings on UFO's and aliens. It is also
for the benefit of entities in regard to their own personal lives and whatever
needs they may have.
This Awareness indicates that this healing energy will also
relate and pertain to healing of individual's personal needs; physicality, mentally,
emotionally, financially, and otherwise, as an energy boost in these areas to
help bring some improvement. This Awareness does not imply that such healings
can bring about a complete reversal of an entity's problems, but these healings
can be of some benefit, depending on how receptive entities are and how responsive
they are to use the energy for proper purposes.
This Awareness wishes from time to time to give such healings
en masse. This Awareness indicates at this time Its gathering
energy; that you all realize that the universe is comprised of energy, that
everything in the universe is energy, that all energy is information; that information
can be affected and directed; that the directing of this energy which is being
gathered from the universe as that which this Awareness now directs to you and
to you loved ones, and to those whom you are concerned about, and it is directed
to your situation which you are concerned about, and this Awareness is gathering
this information. is gathering this energy which accompanies the information
in order to bring about an alteration of the condition that is troublesome,
bringing about a change to that which is an improvement, bring about an uplifting
of energies, the creation of something more beneficial to you.
Its bringing this energy which carries the information
of healing.... of healing.... of healing, into your system, into your information
processing system, which is your consciousness, which permeates your physical
being, which fills your life with activity and with things to focus on. This
energy which you have which is within your consciousness, is now accepting this
energy from this healing, and this healing is continuing to improve the situation,
first on the etheric level, and from there it gradually will work into the other
level, and from there it gradually will work into the other lesser more dense
levels, including the physical body.
This Awareness indicates that these energies and this information which
accompanies it, as that which now permeates and touches into the astral, mental
and the emotional bodies and into the physical cells of your body and it permeates
your entire being with the information and energy; that you are indeed, receiving
a great boost and assistance in your life so that the healings being sent to
you at this time can improve your condition, whatever that condition is that
is of your concern.
This Awareness indicates that you may direct this simple energy,
by will fully aiming it and directing it towards one or more, towards any and
all aspects of your life that needs special attention, and you may also draw
more energy in from this healing by directing towards those loved ones of those
who also may need such healing; that this healing is unlimited; limited only
by your own willingness or unwillingness to continue focusing the energy and
directing the energy as you need to do so, or as you wish to do so.
This Awareness indicates that you may repeat this on a daily basis to
increase the charge of energy. You may repeat this for others also by focusing
this healing energy to them. This Awareness suggests, in fact, that it will
open a for each of you a doorway, a channel, an energy field whereby at any
time you do so desire, at any time you wish to wish to
draw from this energy, you simply draw by willful intent, by opening yourself
to this energy and focus this energy toward those areas, toward those entities,
toward those situations, and toward those aspects of your life which need healing,
or toward those aspects of other's lives which need healing.
You Become an Assistant to Cosmic Awareness
This Awareness indicates that when you direct this energy to the lives of others,
than you not dictate what should occur, but that you direct the energy to them
to be used for the highest and best seen by the Divine Consciousness, that which
is most helpful to them. This Awareness indicates the reason for this being
that you may not know what those entities truly need, and therefore,
it is not proper that you should determine and define exactly what this energy
should be used for.
This Awareness indicates that this can, of course, be defined if the entity
who is to receive the energy to be used for, otherwise, simply directs to be
used for that person for the highest and the best, for the entity's welfare.
That in this manner you can become assistants to this Awareness, helping to
send these healing energies to your loved ones and to your life and to many
situations that you encounter from day to day which need such healing energies.
This Awareness indicates that that you need not concern yourself with
overusing this energy for this Awareness is opening a pipeline for funneling
all this energy that you need for this purpose; that this shall remain open
for your use. This Awareness suggests that this not to include your using the
energy for commercial purposes other than as suggested; that this for you to
work in a different direction; that the action of becoming a healer and charging
for your services as that which is not part of this particular healing; that
this would be of a totally different movement or arrangement with higher forces.
This Awareness is not wishing that entities confuse this healing with
such as might be construed to imply that they can put an ad in a magazine and
start asking for money for healings from this Awareness, for it is not intended
as that kind of flow of energy. This Awareness indicates that this is simply
for your own use in serving others and in helping others, that you may help
to diminish the sorrow and suffering in the world.
This Awareness indicates that the energy has been sent, the pipeline is open.
Entities may use this energy in conjunction with their other forms of healing
as many may be necessary or may be appropriate or simply through the focussing
action of focusing this energy. This Awareness indicates that any questions
related to this may be asked at this time.
(Follow-up question):
I had one question. Would it help the readers or the members
if we made a tape of this opening message available to them? Would this be appropriate?
COMIC AWARENESS:
This Awareness indicates that this could be beneficial in helping
entities to attune more closely to this energy. This Awareness indicates that
it could be a very brief tape, or that other information could also be on the
tape that might be further added, or this Awareness suggests that you may have
it repeated on the tape. This Awareness suggests however, that a simple recording
of the opening message on a tape would be sufficient, the message regarding
this healing; that if you so choose, you could add other meditations or other
healing information or something that otherwise is appropriate to fill out the
remainder of the tape.
(Follow-up question):
This healing energy isn't a temporary or one-shot deal. It will be good for
some time to come?
COSMIC AWARENESS
This Awareness indicates that this will be a permanent opening
to this Awareness for healing energies; that it is not even dependent on the
Interpreter; that even after this Interpreter departs this plane or ceases in
his present activities as Interpreter, the pipeline will remain open. This Awareness
wish to clarify, however, that It is not intending by this action
to imply that It is creating channels for trance-healing, or jobs
for entities. It needs to clarify this because there is a tendency
when something of this type is given, for a few entities to leap to the conclusion
that Awareness has indicated, they can now commercialize on something and start
charging friends and neighbors and calling themselves "Awareness channels"
and initiating or pretending to have some valuable commodity which they can
charge for.
This Awareness indicates this is given as a service. It is not intended
for entities to sacrifice themselves for this to where they need to devote great
amounts of time in healing others. It is not intended that they should set aside
their jobs or persuade mundane affairs in order to become healers; It
is simply suggesting that you can direct energies from this opening, this pipeline,
toward others, that they may heal with the energy you direct to them; that they
may benefit and also that you may direct this energy towards your own needs.
This Awareness suggests that a grounding action would be appropriate
in this mental movement to assist in making this stronger as a ritual. This
Awareness suggests that this be the procedure; you could develop other procedures
if you wish, but that this would be sufficient as a grounding action. That you
may short-cut this if you desire; you may short-cut this by leaving out some
of the movements and gestures or steps, so long as you mentally do them, but
this be the procedure for this healing:
How to Ground your Healing Ritual
This Awareness suggests you take three deep breaths, raise your hands above
your head, opening the pipeline of healing energies from the universe, allowing
this energy to come down into your being. Bring the hands down to your heart
and then, from the heart, give forth the hands, moving the hands outwards toward
the one or toward the situation, wherever it may be in your visualized field,
for healing purposes. In other words, your hands move from above, collecting
the energy from the pipeline; bring it close to your heart, and then move the
energy from the heart as though giving it out to the situation or to the one
or more who needs the healing energies.
This Awareness indicates that this may be accompanied by an in-breathing as
you bring the energies down from above. Touch the heart, hold the breath and
hold the heart for a second, holding the energy in your heart for a second,
and then exhale as you give forth the energy to your loved one or to the situation
that needs healing. This Awareness indicates that this will be sufficient grounding
action to serve as a movement and meaningful subconscious gesture for the ritual
to have its proper effect in conveying the information and energy.
This Awareness indicates that after you have done this in this manner a number
of times, it may become possible to have the same effect without the hand gestures,
or the breathing gestures, but any time you wish to strengthen the ritual, it
is suggested that you include the full activities, for this will strengthen
the action. One can do the healings by mentally immigrating the gestures, and
the rituals, but by the actual participating of the rituals will enhance its
effects.
This Awareness indicates also, that the more this is used, the
stronger its becomes as a healing ritual. This Awareness indicates that this
is not intended to replace other healing techniques that have been given in
the past, such as various group healings that are taught in the Development
Classes. This is simply a healing technique that can be used by yourself individually,
without fanfare, without great attention being brought by yourself. It is best,
in fact, if it is done silently without other-self gaining attention. It is
best if it is done in solitude, or in accompaniment of others who are participating
with you in the ritual
This Awareness indicates in the three deep breaths taken, It
suggests that each breath be deeper than the one before and that
following the exhalation of the third breath, the hands raise above in a kind
of "V" shape to draw in energy from the universe, from this Awareness,
and to bring this energy in as you inhale, and to place the energy then on the
heart, hold on for a second and then exhale to accomplish the healing, to send
the energy for the healing purpose. Again, you may create with the arms outstretched,
sending to the target for your healing, the focal point of the healing, you
may blow the breath out between the outstretched arms in a direction that symbolizes
the object, thing, circumstance or person which needs healing.
