# Poll Exposes '2-Party' Dictatorship - 65% of Americans want a Candidate 
Who is NOT Clinton or Trump

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_americanempire145.htm

by Matt Agorist
May 19, 2016
from TheFreeThoughtProject Website
Matt Agorist is an honorably discharged veteran of the USMC and former intelligence operator directly tasked by the NSA. This prior experience gives him unique insight into the world of government corruption and the American police state. Agorist has been an independent journalist for over a decade and has been featured on mainstream networks around the world.
"There is nothing which I dread so much
as a division of the republic into two great parties,
each arranged under its leader,
and concerting measures in opposition to each other.
This, in my humble apprehension,
is to be dreaded as the greatest political evil
under our Constitution." John Adams
Letter to Jonathan Jackson
October 1780
A recent national poll has highlighted the problematic and autocratic nature of politics in the United States - the two party paradigm.
When faced with two candidates, one on the perceived left and one on the perceived right, the poll reveals that the majority of Americans want neither. According to Data Targeting, Inc., the group conducted a live telephone survey of active registered voters in the United States of America (fifty states + District of Columbia) on the evenings of May 12th through May 15th, 2016. The group carried out the survey,
"in order to better understand the facts at hand and the fundamentals of public opinion, on issues regarding the presidential race and the electorate's opinions regarding an independent candidacy."
Below are the key findings of their survey.
1 - As it stands today, the most likely scenario is that Hillary Clinton will win the general election. While Donald Trump has continued to improve in the popular vote, the electoral college map, because of his major problems among key demographics and battleground states, while possible, remains very difficult for him. 2 - Here are the most striking, historic numbers: 58. 55. 65. What are they? 58% of respondents are dissatisfied with the current group of Republican and Democratic candidates for President. 55% of respondents favor having an independent presidential ticket in 2016. a shocking 91% of voters under the age of 29 favor having an independent candidate on the ballot. 65% of respondents are at least somewhat, pretty or very willing to support a candidate for President, who is not Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. 3 - In a ballot test against Clinton and Trump, a truly independent candidate starts off with 21% of the vote. This number increases to 29% in the "Big Sky" region, 30% in "New England" and 28% in the "West" region. Among voters with an unfavorable opinion of both Trump and Clinton, the independent actually wins the ballot test: TRUMP: 11% CLINTON: 7% INDEPENDENT: 56% 4 - Both major candidates continue to have historically high negative name ID. 56% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Hillary Clinton. Among males, her unfavorable number is 64% Among Republicans, her unfavorable number is 78% Among Independents, her unfavorable number is 57% 55% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Donald Trump. Among women, his unfavorable number is 60% Among Democrats, his unfavorable number is 71% Among Independents, his unfavorable number is 58%
1 - As it stands today, the most likely scenario is that Hillary Clinton will win the general election.
While Donald Trump has continued to improve in the popular vote, the electoral college map, because of his major problems among key demographics and battleground states, while possible, remains very difficult for him.
2 - Here are the most striking, historic numbers: 58. 55. 65.
What are they?
58% of respondents are dissatisfied with the current group of Republican and Democratic candidates for President. 55% of respondents favor having an independent presidential ticket in 2016. a shocking 91% of voters under the age of 29 favor having an independent candidate on the ballot. 65% of respondents are at least somewhat, pretty or very willing to support a candidate for President, who is not Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.
58% of respondents are dissatisfied with the current group of Republican and Democratic candidates for President.
55% of respondents favor having an independent presidential ticket in 2016.
a shocking 91% of voters under the age of 29 favor having an independent candidate on the ballot.
65% of respondents are at least somewhat, pretty or very willing to support a candidate for President, who is not Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.
3 - In a ballot test against Clinton and Trump, a truly independent candidate starts off with 21% of the vote.
This number increases to 29% in the "Big Sky" region, 30% in "New England" and 28% in the "West" region.
Among voters with an unfavorable opinion of both Trump and Clinton, the independent actually wins the ballot test:
TRUMP: 11% CLINTON: 7% INDEPENDENT: 56%
TRUMP: 11%
CLINTON: 7%
INDEPENDENT: 56%
4 - Both major candidates continue to have historically high negative name ID.
56% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Hillary Clinton. Among males, her unfavorable number is 64% Among Republicans, her unfavorable number is 78% Among Independents, her unfavorable number is 57% 55% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Donald Trump. Among women, his unfavorable number is 60% Among Democrats, his unfavorable number is 71% Among Independents, his unfavorable number is 58%
56% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Hillary Clinton. Among males, her unfavorable number is 64% Among Republicans, her unfavorable number is 78% Among Independents, her unfavorable number is 57%
55% of voters have an unfavorable impression of Donald Trump. Among women, his unfavorable number is 60% Among Democrats, his unfavorable number is 71% Among Independents, his unfavorable number is 58%
What this poll confirms is that most Americans dislike both of their options.
Trump is disliked by 55% of the public Hillary Clinton is disliked by 56%
Trump is disliked by 55% of the public
Hillary Clinton is disliked by 56%
As the creators of Southpark so eloquently laid it out over a decade ago, when Americans vote on presidential candidates they end up having to choose between "A Giant Douche" and a "Turd Sandwich." In the meantime, however, a small majority of Americans want someone else - but, thanks to the incremental deterioration of choice among leaders in the U.S. over the last several decades, that is not an option. The poll also shows that if an independent candidate were to run, they would receive 21% of the vote against Clinton and Trump. The problem with that 21%, however, is that the system is setup in such a way as to make absolutely sure that doesn't happen. Sure, Americans will see the other parties on the ballot when they go to the voting booths this November, but thanks to the ruling class, most Americans will have no idea who those people are as they are given zero time on television to express their ideas. For the majority Americans, the United States political system is seen as a football game.
Any time their party is in power, it's as if they are 'winning' and the other party or team is 'losing.' But what most Americans fail to see is that both 'teams' have the same owner. That owner cares not about which one of their teams is 'winning,' just so long as its one of their teams in the game. This 'owner' of the teams is not a single person, nor a single corporation, or focus group, or think tank. Despite the best efforts of Alex Jones and the like, the owners of government cannot be nailed down to just a few old rich men. This is because the owners can be anyone. The U.S. political system is set up in such a manner that it allows for anyone with enough money to steer policy that benefits them personally. Politicians are hardly particular when it comes to who's throwing money at them, so ownership is constantly in a state of flux. The controlled politicians, the rigged system, and the elite are not some vast conspiracy as much as they are a tendency of the state in general. As long as a system exists that allows government force to be bought and sold for the benefit and privilege of a few, these atrocities will continue. The money shoved into the pockets of politicians on behalf of special interest groups, aka bribery, has become so mainstream and widely accepted that no one even bats an eye at the billions doled out to their elected officials on behalf of lobbyists. Republicans and Democrats alike sit back in their plush, taxpayer funded offices in white marble buildings, rubbing elbows with elite businesspersons who pay them to write laws that create unfair advantages for their industries.
In the extremely rare case that a politician resists this corruption and refuses to conform, they are ridiculed by fellow lawmakers, painted as kooks by the MSM, and their supporters labeled as radical nutjobs, i.e. Ron Paul. Meanwhile, We The People argue over the various privileges granted, and how much of our paychecks can be stolen by the almighty rulers on high. The reason it's so hard for people to break out of their two-party shells and see that there are no differences between politicians with a 'D' and politicians with an 'R,' is a complex one.
However, much of the reason we refuse to see things as they are is that humans have a naturally tribalistic tendency. Democrats and Republicans know and employ multiple techniques to keep you on their team, aka tribe. The main technique used is 'Us vs. Them' manipulation, as seen by this current poll.
In spite of the heavy desire to elect someone else, Americans are force fed only two options. Constantly pointing out the flaws of the perceived 'them' group makes the 'us' group easily dismiss logical information without applying any critical thought. This is how both Democrats and Republicans can pass freedom shattering police state laws, bipartisanly, and the masses continue to support their party.
All the blame from such horrid policy is easily written off and passed on to the "other guy." This method of ridicule invokes the "Black and White" constraint of thinking; there are only two choices, and one is detrimental while the other is our savior. MSM and politicians love this constraint on your mind because they can simply convince you that you must go their way, and not with this utterly ridiculous choice. In the meantime, however,
Republicans are for big government, if with war, and the democrats are for war, if with big government.
And, the only "change" people see is their dwindling bank accounts. Seeing outside of the two-party paradigm is a difficult task. It can take years for people to break their conditioning and see the political system for the rigged game that it is. The good news is that once you see the system for what it is, you cannot unsee it. No one goes back to sleep, despite the fact that waking up to the system can be particularly stressful. And, if this poll shows us anything, it's that people are beginning to see the two-party paradigm for the sham that it is. The number of people waking up to the controlled two-party system is ever-increasing and those people, in turn, wake up others. If you are one of those people who sees Washington DC as the Don King boxing match that it is, then you are doing something right. You are likely a reader of the alternative media, you probably don't watch massive amounts of television, and you likely have a thirst for a lesser ignorance. If you are accused of being a liberal and a conservative in the same conversation, it's probably because you have broken free from the cult-like constraints placed on you by the system. However, only waking up is not enough.
If you want to affect positive change in this world, then you have to become that change. This doesn't mean that you have to go out, buy a bullhorn and begin screaming in the streets. Simply changing your purchasing habits can force a change far greater than any bullhorn. Voting with your dollars is far more effective at inciting change than a voting booth. The radical and peaceful change that society needs will most assuredly not originate from the center of the very system that is designed to prevent it. You can quite literally 'be the change that you want to see in this world,' and you can start this now. Do not be discouraged by the establishment who attempts to silence your radical and peaceful views and keep them on the fringe. They do it out of fear, it's merely an act of self-preservation, and it shows that open-mindedness and peace are overcoming cruelty and ignorance.
Always remember, no army can stop an idea whose time has come...
Return to American "Empire"
Return to The Clintons - America Politics
