# Preparing for World War III in 1925!

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_iran42.htm

by Katherine Smith September 3, 2010
from ThePeoplesVoice Website
The Extraordinary claim that Barack Hussein Obama, Ahmadinajad and the Council on American-Islamic Relations (the group behind the Mosque at Ground Zero) are setting the world up for World War III can be supported with facts, and therefore is not a conspiracy theory. Google Trends confirms the U.S. is openly considering a raid on Irans (non-existent) nuclear weapons facilities. My articles on this subject have resonated throughout the anti-war community:
August 09 - The Maxine Waters Investigation: What is Iran Doing in this Picture? August 27 - Waxman, Waters and Iran, Connect the Dots
August 09 - The Maxine Waters Investigation: What is Iran Doing in this Picture?
August 27 - Waxman, Waters and Iran, Connect the Dots
We could be living in the most dangerous times the world has seen since the 1962 Cuba Missile crisis. Here are the facts:
A letter written before 1925 (AKA The Pike Letter) Albert Pike, author of "Morals and Dogma" in 1871 proposed the following plan in a letter to Giuseppe Mazzini: The Third World War must be fomented by taking advantage of the differences caused by the 'agentur' of the 'Illuminati' between the political Zionists and the leaders of Islamic World. The war must be conducted in such a way that Islam (the Moslem Arabic World) and political Zionism mutually destroy each other. Meanwhile the other nations, once more divided on this issue will be constrained to fight to the point of complete physical, moral, spiritual and economical exhaustion.We shall unleash the Nihilists and the Atheists, and we shall provoke a formidable social cataclysm, which in all its horror will show clearly to the nations the effect of absolute Atheism, origin of savagery and of the most bloody turmoil. Then everywhere, the citizens, obliged to defend themselves against the world minority of revolutionaries, will exterminate those destroyers of civilization, and the multitude, disillusioned with Christianity, whose deistic spirits will from that moment be without compass or direction, anxious for an ideal, but without knowing where to render its adoration, will receive the true light through the universal manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer, brought finally out in the public view. This manifestation will result from the general reactionary movement which will follow the destruction of Christianity and atheism, both conquered and exterminated at the same time. [1] Barack Hussein Obama is the 44th President with a biracial background (his estranged father was a Muslim). A Mosque has been proposed, in of all places, near the site where the events of 9/11 took place. Obama, after purposely avoiding the controversy is now on record backing the construction of a Mosque near the hallowed ground of the World Trade Center. His statements are so contradictory and confusing that some have wondered if there is some other agenda at work. Mosque controversy swirls around Obama James Hohmann, Maggie Haberman and Mike Allen The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) is behind the illogical location for a Mosque in the shadow of Ground Zero. CAIR is an organization that in 2007 was named an unindicted co-conspirator in connection with a plot to support the terrorists of Hamas. Mosque at Ground Zero - Who is behind it Muslim Mafia - Inside the Secret Underworld that's Conspiring to Islamize America P. David Gaubatz and Paul Sperry Ahmadinajad, the leader of a country with a non-existent nuclear weapons capability and an air force that belongs in a museum recently threatened Israel, a country with a nuclear arsenal third only to the U.S and the Soviet Union. [2]
A letter written before 1925 (AKA The Pike Letter)
Albert Pike, author of "Morals and Dogma" in 1871 proposed the following plan in a letter to Giuseppe Mazzini:
The Third World War must be fomented by taking advantage of the differences caused by the 'agentur' of the 'Illuminati' between the political Zionists and the leaders of Islamic World.
The war must be conducted in such a way that Islam (the Moslem Arabic World) and political Zionism mutually destroy each other. Meanwhile the other nations, once more divided on this issue will be constrained to fight to the point of complete physical, moral, spiritual and economical exhaustion.We shall unleash the Nihilists and the Atheists, and we shall provoke a formidable social cataclysm, which in all its horror will show clearly to the nations the effect of absolute Atheism, origin of savagery and of the most bloody turmoil.
Then everywhere, the citizens, obliged to defend themselves against the world minority of revolutionaries, will exterminate those destroyers of civilization, and the multitude, disillusioned with Christianity, whose deistic spirits will from that moment be without compass or direction, anxious for an ideal, but without knowing where to render its adoration, will receive the true light through the universal manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer, brought finally out in the public view.
This manifestation will result from the general reactionary movement which will follow the destruction of Christianity and atheism, both conquered and exterminated at the same time. [1]
Barack Hussein Obama is the 44th President with a biracial background (his estranged father was a Muslim).
A Mosque has been proposed, in of all places, near the site where the events of 9/11 took place.
Obama, after purposely avoiding the controversy is now on record backing the construction of a Mosque near the hallowed ground of the World Trade Center. His statements are so contradictory and confusing that some have wondered if there is some other agenda at work. Mosque controversy swirls around Obama
James Hohmann, Maggie Haberman and Mike Allen
The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) is behind the illogical location for a Mosque in the shadow of Ground Zero. CAIR is an organization that in 2007 was named an unindicted co-conspirator in connection with a plot to support the terrorists of Hamas.
Mosque at Ground Zero - Who is behind it Muslim Mafia - Inside the Secret Underworld that's Conspiring to Islamize America
P. David Gaubatz and Paul Sperry
Ahmadinajad, the leader of a country with a non-existent nuclear weapons capability and an air force that belongs in a museum recently threatened Israel, a country with a nuclear arsenal third only to the U.S and the Soviet Union. [2]
Since the events of Sept 11, 2001, a growing unrest and instability between the Arabic World and the Modern State of Israel is tracking with the prediction in the Albert Pike Letter to Giuseppe Mazzini. Normally, I don't recommend those "take action"-campaigns: the ones that tell us, It's not too late, click-here to importune our "elected"- representatives with emails and faxes. However, the perils of a nuclear confrontation with Iran are in line with Pikes call for a Third World War; therefore, we need to harness the energy of the grassroots activists in the U.S. and around the world into The Power of Community, to prevent a war that could end all life on earth.
We prevented a war in 2006 and 2008 and we can do it again in 2010. Contact Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton and demand she honor the commitment made by President Obama during the 2007 Democratic debate when he said that he would:
As president, be willing to meet without preconditions with Iran's leaders, and that the notion of not talking to one's foes was ridiculous. [3] In nuclear war all men are cremated equal. Dexter Gordon E-mail President of the United States, (202) 456-1414 Phone, (202) 456-2461 Fax E-mail The Secretary of State, (202) 647-6575 press 1 to leave a comment
As president, be willing to meet without preconditions with Iran's leaders, and that the notion of not talking to one's foes was ridiculous. [3]
In nuclear war all men are cremated equal.
Dexter Gordon
E-mail President of the United States, (202) 456-1414 Phone, (202) 456-2461 Fax
E-mail The Secretary of State, (202) 647-6575 press 1 to leave a comment
Footnotes
[1] Albert Pike's Letter To Guisseppe MazziniA Diabolical Plan, or A Wild Prophecy? Cardinal Caro Y Rodriguez published The Mystery of Freemasonry Unveiled in 1925. Rodriguez names several references for a particular letter written by Albert Pike in 1871 suggesting a plan of universal destruction, one of which is Le Palladisme : Culte de Satan-Lucifer dans les Triangles Maconniques by Domenico Margiotta which I quote on the front page of this website, and which I believe indicates that Pike did indeed write something of that nature. Rodriguez alleges that on 15th August 1871 Albert Pike proposed the following plan in a letter to Giuseppe Mazzini. The quoted text below lays out a plan for three world wars ending with Luciferian World Government. WW1 occurred as proposed by Pike. WW2 occurred as proposed by Pike. WW3 is looking like it will occur as proposed by Pike.[2] Who's Telling the Truth About Iran's Nuclear Program? by Muhammad SahimiSince February 2003, Iran's nuclear program has undergone what the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) itself admits to be the most intrusive inspection in its entire history. After thousands of hours of inspections by some of the most experienced IAEA experts, the Agency has verified time and again that (1) there is no evidence of a nuclear weapons program in Iran, and (2) all the declared nuclear materials have been accounted for; there has been no diversion of such materials to non-peaceful purposes. Iran has a clean bill of health, as far as its nuclear program is concerned.July 7, 2008 04:24 AM H. Con. Res. 362 - through efforts, Iran seeks to establish regional hegemony, threatens longstanding friends of the United States in the Middle East, and endangers American national security interests.Regional hegemony is not achieved with Iranian army that has been designed solely to defend Iran, and an air force that belongs in museums.To summarize: it is clear that practically every paragraph in the Senate and House Resolutions have factual errors, lies, exaggerations, and half-truths. Iran can be criticized on many grounds, particularly in the area of respect for human rights. But, Iran is not a threat to the United States or to Israel. It is not anywhere close to having the capability for manufacturing nuclear weapons, even if it wanted to.Therefore, the American public must recognize these Resolutions for what they really are: War Resolutions proposed and pushed by neoconservatives in both the Democrat and Republican parties, various pro-Israel lobbies, and their allies.It is crucial that the American public act now, today, by calling their congressional representatives before these "declarations of war" against Iran are passed. If we do launch an unprovoked attack on Iran the results will most probably be horrific to all sides, if not to the entire world. [3] Mr. Obama first made waves with his views on Iran policy in 2007, when he said during a Democratic debate that he would, as president, be willing to meet without preconditions with Iran's leaders, and that the notion of not talking to one's foes was "ridiculous." Since becoming president, Mr. Obama has pursued diplomacy, but his stance has become steadily more confrontational. Irans Nuclear Program The New York Times
[1] Albert Pike's Letter To Guisseppe MazziniA Diabolical Plan, or A Wild Prophecy? Cardinal Caro Y Rodriguez published The Mystery of Freemasonry Unveiled in 1925. Rodriguez names several references for a particular letter written by Albert Pike in 1871 suggesting a plan of universal destruction, one of which is Le Palladisme : Culte de Satan-Lucifer dans les Triangles Maconniques by Domenico Margiotta which I quote on the front page of this website, and which I believe indicates that Pike did indeed write something of that nature. Rodriguez alleges that on 15th August 1871 Albert Pike proposed the following plan in a letter to Giuseppe Mazzini. The quoted text below lays out a plan for three world wars ending with Luciferian World Government. WW1 occurred as proposed by Pike. WW2 occurred as proposed by Pike. WW3 is looking like it will occur as proposed by Pike.[2] Who's Telling the Truth About Iran's Nuclear Program? by Muhammad SahimiSince February 2003, Iran's nuclear program has undergone what the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) itself admits to be the most intrusive inspection in its entire history. After thousands of hours of inspections by some of the most experienced IAEA experts, the Agency has verified time and again that (1) there is no evidence of a nuclear weapons program in Iran, and (2) all the declared nuclear materials have been accounted for; there has been no diversion of such materials to non-peaceful purposes. Iran has a clean bill of health, as far as its nuclear program is concerned.July 7, 2008 04:24 AM H. Con. Res. 362 - through efforts, Iran seeks to establish regional hegemony, threatens longstanding friends of the United States in the Middle East, and endangers American national security interests.Regional hegemony is not achieved with Iranian army that has been designed solely to defend Iran, and an air force that belongs in museums.To summarize: it is clear that practically every paragraph in the Senate and House Resolutions have factual errors, lies, exaggerations, and half-truths. Iran can be criticized on many grounds, particularly in the area of respect for human rights. But, Iran is not a threat to the United States or to Israel. It is not anywhere close to having the capability for manufacturing nuclear weapons, even if it wanted to.Therefore, the American public must recognize these Resolutions for what they really are: War Resolutions proposed and pushed by neoconservatives in both the Democrat and Republican parties, various pro-Israel lobbies, and their allies.It is crucial that the American public act now, today, by calling their congressional representatives before these "declarations of war" against Iran are passed. If we do launch an unprovoked attack on Iran the results will most probably be horrific to all sides, if not to the entire world. [3] Mr. Obama first made waves with his views on Iran policy in 2007, when he said during a Democratic debate that he would, as president, be willing to meet without preconditions with Iran's leaders, and that the notion of not talking to one's foes was "ridiculous."
Since becoming president, Mr. Obama has pursued diplomacy, but his stance has become steadily more confrontational.
Irans Nuclear Program
The New York Times
Return to The Actual Iran Case - The Beginning of World War III?
Return to Masons and Knights Templar
