# Prieure de Sion

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_priorysion02.htm

by Dr.Vincenzo Chiodo, PhD from AlienExistence Website
The Prieure du Notre Dame du Sion, or Priory of Zion, is said to be the cabal behind many of the events that occurred at Rennes-le-Chateau. According to the Prieures own documents, its history is long and convoluted. Its earliest roots are in some sort of Hermetic or Gnostic society led by a man named Ormus. This individual is said to have reconciled paganism and Christianity. The story of Sion only comes into focus in the Middle Ages. In 1070, a group of monks from Calabria, Italy, led by one Prince Ursus, founded the Abbey of Orval in France near Stenay, in the Ardennes. These monks are said to have formed the basis for the Order de Sion, into which they were "folded" in 1099 by Godfroi de Bouillion. For about one hundred years, the Order of the Temple - Knights Templar - and Sion were apparently unified under one leadership, though they are said to have separated at the "cutting of the elm" at Gisors in 1188. (The Templar order was then destroyed by King Phillipe Le Bel of France, in 1307.) Sion appears to have been at the nexus of two French antimonarchical movements, the Compagnie du St.-Sacrament of the 17th century - acting on behalf on the Guise-Lorraine families - and the Fronde of the 18th, as well as behind an attempt to make the Hapsburgs emperors of all Europe in the 19th -- the Hieron du Val dOr. It appears that there are vast connections between Sion and numerous sociocultural strata in European thought -- Roscicrucianism, Freemasonry, Arthurian and Grail legends, "Arcadianism," Catharism, chivalry, etc.
Yet this mysterious secret society brought itself to light in 1956 and is listed with the French directory of organizations under the subtitle "Chivalry of Catholic Rules and Institutions of the Independent and Traditionalist Union," which in French abbreviates to circuit -- the name of the magazine distributed internally among members. Depending on what statutes one considers, Sion either has 9,841 members in nine grades, or 1,093 members in seven, with the supreme member, the "Nautonnier" or Grand Master of the Order being, till 1963, Jean Cocteau. While it is believed the head has been Pierre Plantard de St.-Clair up until recent times, he claims to have left that post in 1984, so it is not clear who runs the organization at this time. But whoever he is, he has had illustrious predecessors:
Jacques DeMolay Leonardo de Vinci Isaac Newton and Claude Debussy, among others!
Jacques DeMolay
Leonardo de Vinci
Isaac Newton
and Claude Debussy, among others!
Plantard, in any case, seems to have enjoyed the ear of many influential persons in contemporary French politics -- deGaulle, Marcel Lefebvre, Francois Ducaud-Bourget, Andre Malraux, and Alain Poher, and others, many of whom appear to know him from his efforts with the Resistance during the Vichy occupation. Despite its registry, however, the organization remains untraceable, its given address and number leading to dead ends -- which might lead one to wonder why the government never bothered to verify the information. Some interesting things have come to light about the Prieure recently. One is that the Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina (GLA), the highest body of Swiss Freemasonry (akin to the Grand Lodge of England), may have been the recruiting body for the Prieure. But the GLA is also said by some to be the meeting place of the "Gnomes of Zurich" who are said to be the Power Elite of Swiss bankers and international financiers. The GLA is said by David Yallop to be the body which controlled the P2 Masonic Lodge in Italy.
(P2 controlled the Italian secret police in the 1970s, took money from the CIA and KGB, may have had a hand in the kidnapping of Aldo Moro by the Red Brigades, had 900 agents in other branches of the Italian government and the highest positions of the Vatican, bombed a train station and tried to blame it on the Communists, used the Vatican Bank to launder Mafia drug money, fomented fascist coups in South America, and is most likely linked to the arch-conservative Knights of Malta and Opus Dei in the Vatican.)
P2s Lucio Gelli may have had a role in the death of John Paul I, and perhaps even the assassination attempt on John Paul II. One of the most interesting people to write about the Prieure may be Michael Lamy. He claims that Jules Verne was a member of both the Prieure and the Illuminati. Further, he maintains that the Prieures politics must be understood as "Orleanist," which he describes as "aristocratic, anarchistic, and Nietzchean." Perhaps it all becomes most clear when Lamy reveals to the reader that the true secret of the village of Rennes-le-Chateau is that the extinct volcano Mount Bugarach leads down into the hollow earth to a realm of supermen.
Ean Begg feels it is connected with many of the Black Virgin sites all over Europe. Certainly, if the organizations full name is the Prieure de Notre Dame du Sion, and if it is site of Orval is connected to the worship of the bear-goddess Arduina, venerated by the Sicambrian Franks of the area and their Merovingian kings, then this may be the case. There are hints, of course, that "Notre Dame" is not the mother of Jesus, but Mary of Bethany AKA "Magdalene" a princess of the tribe of Benjamin, which is itself notorious for an outbreak of goddess-idolatry in the period of the Judges. That Mary may also be the one also known to the Gypsies of the south of France as one of the three "Maries-de-la-Mer," whom they call "Sarah the Egyptian," the sun-burnt one. Sailing and Grailing Across the Atlantic
The most bizarre chapter in the story of Rennes-le-Chateau may have to do with the Money Pit mystery on Oak Island just off Nova Scotia. According to Michael Bradley, some of the keepers of the Grail may have come to the New World long before Columbus. He believes that some of the Templars may have fled to Canada after the dissolution of their order, carrying the Grail. The Money Pit has more often been associated with pirates buried treasure, but as many know, the "Jolly Roger" flags skull-and-crossbones icon has long been associated with Masonic and Templar legend.
The so-called Venetian "Zeno Map" (above image) of the 15th century shows a knight with a sword standing where Nova Scotia is.
(The Sinclairs of Scotland are "hereditary lords of Rosslyn Chapel" and are said to be descended from the Scots Guards, a clique loyal to the Stuart dynasty, which in turn are thought to have contained converted members of the Templar Order who fought with Robert the Bruce at Bannockburn, and to have provided the basis of Freemasonry.)
In the Money Pit on Oak Island, a mysterious stone inscription was found: "Forty feet below - two million punds are buried." Every company that has tried to locate this treasure has failed. Along with the supposed visits of Prince Madoc of Wales and St. Brendan of Ireland, Prince Henry the Navigators trip to the New World with the Zeno brothers makes it one of numerous European pre-Columbian voyages. The Zeno map, along with those culled by Viking travelers, may have even helped Columbus make his way across the Atlantic. Recently, a UFO "contactee" in Canada who calls himself only "Guardian" speculated wildly about some "Brotherhood of the Grail" being operative there for centuries.
Geographically speaking, there are in fact two Oak Islands, surrounding a central river, at the confluence of which is a mysterious ruin, which appears to be a fortress or old castle. It does appear that there may be strands connecting Rennes-le-Chateau and the New World. Ultimately, the Rosicrucian ideas behind the American experiment (as documented by Manly Palmer Hall) may have deeper "Arcadian" roots. Bradley hints, but does not come out and say, that what is beneath the Money Pit may be the Grail.
It is not the only weird trail in the Rennes mystery. One researcher insists that the inventor Barnes Wallis was one of the most recent Grand Masters of Sion. Yet another feels it is worth pursuing the origins of the Cajun people of Louisiana. Others have even found connections to the so-called "Baconian" theory, which suggests that Sir Francis Bacon authored Shakespeares plays. Bacons works suggest a Rosicrucian experiment taking place in the New World.
Fanthorpe seems to believe that ultimately Rennes-le-Chateau may be a "doorway unto the invisible" - a gateway to other dimensions, through the Emerald Tablet which he speculates may have been a tesseract (3-dimensional representation of a 4-dimensional figure).
Other theories
Lincoln and his co-authors fashioned a theory that Christ had descendents who "legged it to the south of France where they intermarried with the royal Franks to found what eventually became the mystical Merovingian Dynasty. Ergo, the real mission of the Templars and Priory of Zion: to safeguard not just the treasure of the Crusades, but to preserve the Grail, which appeared in medieval texts as Sangraal or Sangreal, and which Lincoln et al. translated to mean sang real, or royal blood. In other words: the dynastic legacy of Christ, literally. The Merovingians were considered in their day to be quasi-mystical warrior-kings vested with supernatural powers." The Merovingians traced their ancestry back to the Benjamites who, according to legend, has fled from Israel to Arcadia in Greece.
"Pierre Plantard de Saint-Clair [was] apparently the source behind much of the recent literature devoted to the hilltown and its enigmatic priest. Shepherded to Pariss Bibliotheque Nationale, our trio of historical investigators discovered there a genealogy purporting to link Pierre Plantard to King Dagobert II and the Merovingian dynasty. "Throughout these dossiers secrets at Pariss national library were tantalizing historical references to a mysterious and ancient secret society called Prieure de Sion, or Priory of Zion." "Lincoln and company checked with the French authorities and discovered that there was indeed a contemporary organization calling itself Priory of Zion. And who do you think was registered as the groups secretary-general but none other than Pierre Plantard." "The earliest roots of the Prieure de Sion are in some sort of Hermetic or Gnostic society led by a man named Ormus. This individual is said to have reconciled paganism and Christianity. The story of Sion only comes into focus in the Middle Ages. In 1070, a group of monks from Calabria, Italy, led by one Prince Ursus, founded the Abbey of Orval in France near Stenay, in the Ardennes. These monks are said to have formed the basis for the the Order de Sion, into which they were folded in 1099 by Godfroi de Bouillion." "The Order of Sion was founded in the 1090s by Godfroide Bouillon, one of the leaders of the First Crusade who had recaptured Jerusalem. They claim that it was this Order that lay behind Hugues of Champagne and the founding of the Templars."
"Pierre Plantard de Saint-Clair [was] apparently the source behind much of the recent literature devoted to the hilltown and its enigmatic priest. Shepherded to Pariss Bibliotheque Nationale, our trio of historical investigators discovered there a genealogy purporting to link Pierre Plantard to King Dagobert II and the Merovingian dynasty.
"Throughout these dossiers secrets at Pariss national library were tantalizing historical references to a mysterious and ancient secret society called Prieure de Sion, or Priory of Zion." "Lincoln and company checked with the French authorities and discovered that there was indeed a contemporary organization calling itself Priory of Zion. And who do you think was registered as the groups secretary-general but none other than Pierre Plantard."
"The earliest roots of the Prieure de Sion are in some sort of Hermetic or Gnostic society led by a man named Ormus. This individual is said to have reconciled paganism and Christianity. The story of Sion only comes into focus in the Middle Ages. In 1070, a group of monks from Calabria, Italy, led by one Prince Ursus, founded the Abbey of Orval in France near Stenay, in the Ardennes. These monks are said to have formed the basis for the the Order de Sion, into which they were folded in 1099 by Godfroi de Bouillion."
"The Order of Sion was founded in the 1090s by Godfroide Bouillon, one of the leaders of the First Crusade who had recaptured Jerusalem. They claim that it was this Order that lay behind Hugues of Champagne and the founding of the Templars."
From - Baigent, Leigh & Lincoln, The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail
"The avowed and declared objective of the Prieure de Sion is the restoration of the Merovingian dynasty and bloodline - to the throne not only of France, but to the thrones of other European nations as well. By dint of dynastic alliances and intermarriages, this line came to include Godfroi de Bouillion, who captured Jerusalem in 1099, and various other noble and royal families, past and present." Godfroi was, by legend, a member of the Grail Family, and by lineage a Merovingian and apparently, rightful King of Jerusalem by his descent from David. It is clear that he was aware of this. When he left for the first crusade, he sold all of his property. He intended to stay in Jerusalem. Godfroi was close to de Payen and the count of Champagne, and Baudoin [his brother] was integral to the founding of the Templars." "One might therefore term Godfroi de Bouillon as a sort of king of kings, or at least a maker of kings, since he founded the Order of Sion that could crown Kings of Jerusalem." "To the south of Jerusalem looms the high hill of Mount Sion." By 1099 an abbey had been built on the ruins of an old Byzantine basilica at the express command of Godfroi de Buoillon. "According to one chronicler, writing in 1172, it was extremely well fortified, with its own walls, towers and battlements. And this structure was called the Abbey of Notre Dame du Mont de Sion." "In 1979, M. Plantard had said to us, quite categorically, that the Prieure was in possession of the treasure of the Temple of Jerusalem, plundered by the Romans during the revolt of A.D. 66 and subsequently carried to the south of France, in the vicinity of Rennes-le-Chateau. The treasure, M. Plantard stated, would be returned to Israel when the time is right." "At some point, according to Lincoln et al., the treasure had passed from the Merovingians to the Priory of Zion----> Templars took the treasure from the Holy Land to the French Cathars, who, on the eve of their destruction by the church, squirreled the lucre away in the Pyrenees."
"The avowed and declared objective of the Prieure de Sion is the restoration of the Merovingian dynasty and bloodline - to the throne not only of France, but to the thrones of other European nations as well. By dint of dynastic alliances and intermarriages, this line came to include Godfroi de Bouillion, who captured Jerusalem in 1099, and various other noble and royal families, past and present."
Godfroi was, by legend, a member of the Grail Family, and by lineage a Merovingian and apparently, rightful King of Jerusalem by his descent from David. It is clear that he was aware of this. When he left for the first crusade, he sold all of his property. He intended to stay in Jerusalem. Godfroi was close to de Payen and the count of Champagne, and Baudoin [his brother] was integral to the founding of the Templars." "One might therefore term Godfroi de Bouillon as a sort of king of kings, or at least a maker of kings, since he founded the Order of Sion that could crown Kings of Jerusalem." "To the south of Jerusalem looms the high hill of Mount Sion." By 1099 an abbey had been built on the ruins of an old Byzantine basilica at the express command of Godfroi de Buoillon. "According to one chronicler, writing in 1172, it was extremely well fortified, with its own walls, towers and battlements. And this structure was called the Abbey of Notre Dame du Mont de Sion."
"In 1979, M. Plantard had said to us, quite categorically, that the Prieure was in possession of the treasure of the Temple of Jerusalem, plundered by the Romans during the revolt of A.D. 66 and subsequently carried to the south of France, in the vicinity of Rennes-le-Chateau. The treasure, M. Plantard stated, would be returned to Israel when the time is right."
"At some point, according to Lincoln et al., the treasure had passed from the Merovingians to the Priory of Zion----> Templars took the treasure from the Holy Land to the French Cathars, who, on the eve of their destruction by the church, squirreled the lucre away in the Pyrenees."
For about one hundred years, the Order of the Temple (Knights Templar) and Sion were apparently unified under one leadership, though they are said to have separated at the cutting of the elm at Gisors in 1188.
Near the end of the thirteenth Century a separate detachment of Templars was sent from the Aragonese province of Rossillon to the Rennes-le-Chateau area in southern France [the old Cathar stronghold]. This fresh detachment established itself on the summit of the mountain of Bezu, erecting a lookout post and a chapel. Alone of all the Templars in France, they were left unmolested by Philippe le Bels seneschals on October 13, 1307. On that fateful day the commander of the Templar contingent at Bezu was a Seigneur de Goth. And before taking the name of Pope Clement V, the archbishop of Bordeaux - King Philippes vacillating pawn - was Bertrand de Goth. Moreover, the new pontiffs mother was Ida de Blanchefort, of the same family as Bertrand de Blanchefort [the fourth Grand Master of the Order of the Temple]. Was the pope then privy to some secret entrusted to the custody of his family?"
Whether is was the intrigues and the Wars of Religion in the sixteenth century, the insurrection known as the Fronde in the seventeenth century or the Masonic conspiracies of the eighteenth century, successive generations of precisely the same families were implicated, operating in accordance with a single consistent pattern. In documents dating from 1619, it was stated to have incurred the displeasure of King Louis XIII of France, who evicted them from their seat at Orleans and turned the premises over to the Jesuits. After that, the Prieure de Sion seemed to vanish from the historical record, at least under that name, until 1956, when it appeared again, registered in the French Journal officiel. The castles of Templar Chateau of Bezu, the Chateau of Blanchefort and Rennes-le-Chateau are each located on a mountain top. Together, with the high spots of two other peaks, the locations form a perfect pentagon (five equal sides) some fifteen miles in circumference. Like Rennes-le-Chateau "the village church dates back to at least the time of the Visigoths, some thirteen centuries ago. The church is dedicated to Saint Magdalene. The early astronomers saw the earth as the center of the universe, around which the Sun, the stars and the planets revolved. Each planet forms its own pattern of movement around the Sun as seen from the Earth. For the ancient watchers of the heavens, those differing patterns of movement allowed them to draw geometric shapes based on the positions of each planet when it was aligned with the Sun. Only one planet describes a precise and regular geometric pattern in the sky - and that planet is Venus, the heavenly counterpart of the earthly Mary Magdalene - and the pattern that she draws as regular as clockwork every eight years is a pentacle.
There can be no doubt that churches, calvarias, castles and obscure ruins - almost every structure of note upon the map -form an intricate web of alignments which intersect with perfect regularity on the zero Paris- meridian. The distance covered by three of those division is the circle radius measure. Each point is separated from the next by exactly one third of 933.586 poles!
The accepted definition of a pole - also known as the Rod or Perch- is now 5.5 yards.
All of the measurements and placements of the buildings follow the patterns of the sacred geometry. This all leads back to the hermetic theories - Hermes - who was Thoth - the ancient Egyptians - Alchemy - Ark of the Covenant - Tree of Life / Qabalah.
Here are some of the theories/ mythologies that follow
The boat of Isis was positioned in the constellation of Argo. Specifically, in Egypt this constellation was named Sothis or Soth-Isis, the Star of Isis. Furthermore, in the Egyptian legends this vessel represented the female organ of generation. The Ark of the Covenant of the ancient Israelites is believed to have been modelled after the ceremonial ark of Isis. It has been alleged that Hughes de Payens, first Grand Master of the Knights Templar, had been inducted into the Johannites, a sect which chose John the Baptist as their prophet. According to the dossiers secrets, each of the alleged Grand Masters of the Prieure de Sion took the name Jean in succession (supposedly influencing the name chosen by Pope John XXIII). One of the Grand Masters on the list, Leonardo da Vinci, displayed a strong interest in John the Baptist. Another, Sir Isaac Newton, became preoccupied with the writings of the Apocalypse, then attributed to John the Evangelist. According to the dossiers secrets, the following individuals were amongst the Grand Masters: Renè dAnjou (1418-80) - a major impetus behind the Renaissance through his literacy and influence on Cosimo deMedici setting up bastions of esoteric, Hermetic principles - the underground stream. Legend records that the dAnjous were descended from Ann the Jew, daughter of Joseph of Arimathea, who supposedly carried the Davidic blood line and settled in western France. Later, the DAnjou branched into the Houses of De Guise and De Lorraine.Renè dAnjou "was related to the king of France by marriage and remained a trusted ally during the war with England. On paper, Renè was one of the most powerful men in Europe. Unfortunately, after the failure of his Italian campaign, he was nothing more than a patron of the arts and collector of books. Rene was co-sponsor of the Arcadia revival in the late 15th century." Through his patronage of art, literature and the advancement of knowledge Renè is one of the most important figures of the formative years of the Renaissance. It was directly as a result of Renes influence that Cosimo de Medici sent agents out to look for ancient texts, which resulted in the revival of Neoplatonic and Hermetic thought.Nicholas Flamel (1330-1418), the most famous of the alchemists said, "the Paris notary Nicolas Flamel claimed that he dreamed of an occult book, subsequently found it, and succeeded in deciphering it with the aid of a Jewish scholar learned in the mystic Hebrew writings known as the Kabbala. In 1382 Flamel claimed to have succeeded in the Great Work (gold making); certainly he became rich and made donations to churches.One alchemical symbol that is widely acknowledged by modern scholars is that of an old bearded man, the back of whose head shows a young woman looking into a mirror. A statue with this image graces the exterior of Nantes cathedral, as does a bearded king with the body of a woman, in the porch at Chartres that depicts the Queen of Sheba. "The hermaphrodite is a pure alchemical symbol, representing the perfect balance achieved in the Great Work, and the perfect being, in which the alchemist himself is transformed and transmuted spiritually - and, as many believe, physically as well. It was a consummation devoutly to be wished and had little, if anything, to do with sexuality as we understand it today. The Great Work was an explosion of the potential into the actual, where they mystical quest takes on concrete form. As the alchemists said, as above, so below - this process was believed to make spirit into matter and transmute one sort of matter into another. It made a man into a god. Revered by men like Newton, Flamel was the discoverer of The Sacred Book of Abraham the Jew, Prince, Priest, Levite, Astrologer and Philosopher to that Tribe of Jews who by the Wrath of God were Dispersed amongst the Gauls which became one of the most famous works in Western esoteric tradition.Leonardo de Vinci (1510-19) - Having little formal education, Leonardo enthusiastically accepted Nicholass [of Cusa] new worldview [of an universe with no limits in space, no beginning or ending in time] as a justification for rejecting the outmoded authority of the pharisees - the holy friars and of his adversaries Plato and Aristotle. For the first time since the Ionians, he put forward a conception of science that was wholly secular, in no way based on religious doctrines or philosophy. In Leonardo the craftsman, scientist, and inventor are merged into one.Leonardo was left-handed; he was a strict vegetarian- he sought the company of alchemists and necromancers; he worked on a Sunday and only attended Mass when at court. The only surviving sculpture that involved Leonardo in its making is the statue of John the Baptist in the Baptistery in Florence, on which he collaborated with the utmost secrecy with Giovan Francesco Rustici, a known necromancer and alchemist. And Leonardos last painting was John the Baptist, showing him with the same half-smile as The Mona Lisa, and pointing straight upwards with the index finger of his right hand. This in Leonardos work is a sign always associated with John: in the Adoration of the Magi a person stands by the elevated roots of a carob tree - Johns tree, symbol of sacrificial blood - while making this gesture. In his famous cartoon of St. Anne the subject also does this, warning an oblivious Virgin. The disciple whose face is perhaps accusingly close to Jesus in The Last Supper is also making this gesture. All these gestures are saying remember John.Johann Valentin Andrea (1637-54) - "the creator of the semi-secret Christian unions and author of the Rosicrucian manifestos, a Hermetic allegory which also evokes resonances with the Grail Romances and the Knights Templar. At this time, with the eclipse of the House of Lorraine, the Priory transferred its allegiance to the more influential Stuarts after Frederick of the Palatinate married Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of James I of England. Frederick "created a culture, a Rosicrucian state with its court centered on Heidelberg." Robert Boyle (1654-91) - part of the "Invisible College" of dynamic English and European minds which became the Royal Society after the restoration of the monarch in 1160 with the Stuart ruler, Charles II as its patron and sponsor. His two closest friends were Isaac Newton and John Locke who met regularly with him to study alchemical works. In the ancient world alchemy was referred to simply as the sacred art. It flourished in the first three centuries A.D. in Alexandria, where it was the combined product of glass and metal technology, a Hellenistic philosophy of the unity of all things through the four elements (earth, air, water, fire), and occult religion and astrology. The essential principle was that all things, both animate and inanimate, were permeated by spirit, and that the substances of the lower world could, through a synthesis of chemical operations and imaginative reasoning, be transmuted into higher things of the spiritual world - things not subject to decay. Napoleon Bonaparte - Sion appears to have been at the nexus of two French anti-monarchical movements, the Compagnie du St.-Sacrament of the 17th century (acting on behalf on the Guise-Lorraine families) and the Fronde of the 18th, as well as an attempt to make the Hapsburgs emperors of all Europe in the 19th- the Hieron du Val dOr. In 1796 Napoleon was one of three revolutionary Directors heading the government. Another Director was Abbe Sieyes, who knew of certain genealogical researches that had been undertaken by one Abbe Pichon. Pichon had access to the royal archives captured by the revolutionary government, where some important genealogies had been hidden away, and he discovered that a direct descent from Dagobert II had been maintained up to then. Abbe Seiyes urged Napoleon to marry Josephine Beauhamais because she was a Merovingian descendant, and to adopt her two children by a previous marriage who were of this anciently royal stock." In 1798 "on the way to Egypt, Bonaparte detoured to capture Malta and the treasure held by the Knights of Malta.
The boat of Isis was positioned in the constellation of Argo. Specifically, in Egypt this constellation was named Sothis or Soth-Isis, the Star of Isis. Furthermore, in the Egyptian legends this vessel represented the female organ of generation. The Ark of the Covenant of the ancient Israelites is believed to have been modelled after the ceremonial ark of Isis.
It has been alleged that Hughes de Payens, first Grand Master of the Knights Templar, had been inducted into the Johannites, a sect which chose John the Baptist as their prophet. According to the dossiers secrets, each of the alleged Grand Masters of the Prieure de Sion took the name Jean in succession (supposedly influencing the name chosen by Pope John XXIII). One of the Grand Masters on the list, Leonardo da Vinci, displayed a strong interest in John the Baptist. Another, Sir Isaac Newton, became preoccupied with the writings of the Apocalypse, then attributed to John the Evangelist. According to the dossiers secrets, the following individuals were amongst the Grand Masters:
Renè dAnjou (1418-80) - a major impetus behind the Renaissance through his literacy and influence on Cosimo deMedici setting up bastions of esoteric, Hermetic principles - the underground stream. Legend records that the dAnjous were descended from Ann the Jew, daughter of Joseph of Arimathea, who supposedly carried the Davidic blood line and settled in western France. Later, the DAnjou branched into the Houses of De Guise and De Lorraine.Renè dAnjou "was related to the king of France by marriage and remained a trusted ally during the war with England. On paper, Renè was one of the most powerful men in Europe. Unfortunately, after the failure of his Italian campaign, he was nothing more than a patron of the arts and collector of books. Rene was co-sponsor of the Arcadia revival in the late 15th century." Through his patronage of art, literature and the advancement of knowledge Renè is one of the most important figures of the formative years of the Renaissance. It was directly as a result of Renes influence that Cosimo de Medici sent agents out to look for ancient texts, which resulted in the revival of Neoplatonic and Hermetic thought.Nicholas Flamel (1330-1418), the most famous of the alchemists said, "the Paris notary Nicolas Flamel claimed that he dreamed of an occult book, subsequently found it, and succeeded in deciphering it with the aid of a Jewish scholar learned in the mystic Hebrew writings known as the Kabbala. In 1382 Flamel claimed to have succeeded in the Great Work (gold making); certainly he became rich and made donations to churches.One alchemical symbol that is widely acknowledged by modern scholars is that of an old bearded man, the back of whose head shows a young woman looking into a mirror. A statue with this image graces the exterior of Nantes cathedral, as does a bearded king with the body of a woman, in the porch at Chartres that depicts the Queen of Sheba. "The hermaphrodite is a pure alchemical symbol, representing the perfect balance achieved in the Great Work, and the perfect being, in which the alchemist himself is transformed and transmuted spiritually - and, as many believe, physically as well. It was a consummation devoutly to be wished and had little, if anything, to do with sexuality as we understand it today. The Great Work was an explosion of the potential into the actual, where they mystical quest takes on concrete form. As the alchemists said, as above, so below - this process was believed to make spirit into matter and transmute one sort of matter into another. It made a man into a god. Revered by men like Newton, Flamel was the discoverer of The Sacred Book of Abraham the Jew, Prince, Priest, Levite, Astrologer and Philosopher to that Tribe of Jews who by the Wrath of God were Dispersed amongst the Gauls which became one of the most famous works in Western esoteric tradition.Leonardo de Vinci (1510-19) - Having little formal education, Leonardo enthusiastically accepted Nicholass [of Cusa] new worldview [of an universe with no limits in space, no beginning or ending in time] as a justification for rejecting the outmoded authority of the pharisees - the holy friars and of his adversaries Plato and Aristotle. For the first time since the Ionians, he put forward a conception of science that was wholly secular, in no way based on religious doctrines or philosophy. In Leonardo the craftsman, scientist, and inventor are merged into one.Leonardo was left-handed; he was a strict vegetarian- he sought the company of alchemists and necromancers; he worked on a Sunday and only attended Mass when at court. The only surviving sculpture that involved Leonardo in its making is the statue of John the Baptist in the Baptistery in Florence, on which he collaborated with the utmost secrecy with Giovan Francesco Rustici, a known necromancer and alchemist. And Leonardos last painting was John the Baptist, showing him with the same half-smile as The Mona Lisa, and pointing straight upwards with the index finger of his right hand. This in Leonardos work is a sign always associated with John: in the Adoration of the Magi a person stands by the elevated roots of a carob tree - Johns tree, symbol of sacrificial blood - while making this gesture. In his famous cartoon of St. Anne the subject also does this, warning an oblivious Virgin. The disciple whose face is perhaps accusingly close to Jesus in The Last Supper is also making this gesture. All these gestures are saying remember John.Johann Valentin Andrea (1637-54) - "the creator of the semi-secret Christian unions and author of the Rosicrucian manifestos, a Hermetic allegory which also evokes resonances with the Grail Romances and the Knights Templar. At this time, with the eclipse of the House of Lorraine, the Priory transferred its allegiance to the more influential Stuarts after Frederick of the Palatinate married Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of James I of England. Frederick "created a culture, a Rosicrucian state with its court centered on Heidelberg." Robert Boyle (1654-91) - part of the "Invisible College" of dynamic English and European minds which became the Royal Society after the restoration of the monarch in 1160 with the Stuart ruler, Charles II as its patron and sponsor. His two closest friends were Isaac Newton and John Locke who met regularly with him to study alchemical works. In the ancient world alchemy was referred to simply as the sacred art. It flourished in the first three centuries A.D. in Alexandria, where it was the combined product of glass and metal technology, a Hellenistic philosophy of the unity of all things through the four elements (earth, air, water, fire), and occult religion and astrology. The essential principle was that all things, both animate and inanimate, were permeated by spirit, and that the substances of the lower world could, through a synthesis of chemical operations and imaginative reasoning, be transmuted into higher things of the spiritual world - things not subject to decay. Napoleon Bonaparte - Sion appears to have been at the nexus of two French anti-monarchical movements, the Compagnie du St.-Sacrament of the 17th century (acting on behalf on the Guise-Lorraine families) and the Fronde of the 18th, as well as an attempt to make the Hapsburgs emperors of all Europe in the 19th- the Hieron du Val dOr. In 1796 Napoleon was one of three revolutionary Directors heading the government. Another Director was Abbe Sieyes, who knew of certain genealogical researches that had been undertaken by one Abbe Pichon. Pichon had access to the royal archives captured by the revolutionary government, where some important genealogies had been hidden away, and he discovered that a direct descent from Dagobert II had been maintained up to then. Abbe Seiyes urged Napoleon to marry Josephine Beauhamais because she was a Merovingian descendant, and to adopt her two children by a previous marriage who were of this anciently royal stock." In 1798 "on the way to Egypt, Bonaparte detoured to capture Malta and the treasure held by the Knights of Malta.
Renè dAnjou (1418-80) -
a major impetus behind the Renaissance through his literacy and influence on Cosimo deMedici setting up bastions of esoteric, Hermetic principles - the underground stream. Legend records that the dAnjous were descended from Ann the Jew, daughter of Joseph of Arimathea, who supposedly carried the Davidic blood line and settled in western France. Later, the DAnjou branched into the Houses of De Guise and De Lorraine.Renè dAnjou "was related to the king of France by marriage and remained a trusted ally during the war with England. On paper, Renè was one of the most powerful men in Europe. Unfortunately, after the failure of his Italian campaign, he was nothing more than a patron of the arts and collector of books. Rene was co-sponsor of the Arcadia revival in the late 15th century."
Through his patronage of art, literature and the advancement of knowledge Renè is one of the most important figures of the formative years of the Renaissance. It was directly as a result of Renes influence that Cosimo de Medici sent agents out to look for ancient texts, which resulted in the revival of Neoplatonic and Hermetic thought.Nicholas Flamel (1330-1418),
the most famous of the alchemists said, "the Paris notary Nicolas Flamel claimed that he dreamed of an occult book, subsequently found it, and succeeded in deciphering it with the aid of a Jewish scholar learned in the mystic Hebrew writings known as the Kabbala. In 1382 Flamel claimed to have succeeded in the Great Work (gold making); certainly he became rich and made donations to churches.One alchemical symbol that is widely acknowledged by modern scholars is that of an old bearded man, the back of whose head shows a young woman looking into a mirror. A statue with this image graces the exterior of Nantes cathedral, as does a bearded king with the body of a woman, in the porch at Chartres that depicts the Queen of Sheba.
"The hermaphrodite is a pure alchemical symbol, representing the perfect balance achieved in the Great Work, and the perfect being, in which the alchemist himself is transformed and transmuted spiritually - and, as many believe, physically as well. It was a consummation devoutly to be wished and had little, if anything, to do with sexuality as we understand it today. The Great Work was an explosion of the potential into the actual, where they mystical quest takes on concrete form. As the alchemists said, as above, so below - this process was believed to make spirit into matter and transmute one sort of matter into another. It made a man into a god.
Revered by men like Newton, Flamel was the discoverer of The Sacred Book of Abraham the Jew, Prince, Priest, Levite, Astrologer and Philosopher to that Tribe of Jews who by the Wrath of God were Dispersed amongst the Gauls which became one of the most famous works in Western esoteric tradition.Leonardo de Vinci (1510-19) -
Having little formal education, Leonardo enthusiastically accepted Nicholass [of Cusa] new worldview [of an universe with no limits in space, no beginning or ending in time] as a justification for rejecting the outmoded authority of the pharisees - the holy friars and of his adversaries Plato and Aristotle. For the first time since the Ionians, he put forward a conception of science that was wholly secular, in no way based on religious doctrines or philosophy. In Leonardo the craftsman, scientist, and inventor are merged into one.Leonardo was left-handed; he was a strict vegetarian- he sought the company of alchemists and necromancers; he worked on a Sunday and only attended Mass when at court. The only surviving sculpture that involved Leonardo in its making is the statue of John the Baptist in the Baptistery in Florence, on which he collaborated with the utmost secrecy with Giovan Francesco Rustici, a known necromancer and alchemist. And Leonardos last painting was John the Baptist, showing him with the same half-smile as The Mona Lisa, and pointing straight upwards with the index finger of his right hand. This in Leonardos work is a sign always associated with John: in the Adoration of the Magi a person stands by the elevated roots of a carob tree - Johns tree, symbol of sacrificial blood - while making this gesture. In his famous cartoon of St. Anne the subject also does this, warning an oblivious Virgin. The disciple whose face is perhaps accusingly close to Jesus in The Last Supper is also making this gesture. All these gestures are saying remember John.Johann Valentin Andrea (1637-54) -
"the creator of the semi-secret Christian unions and author of the Rosicrucian manifestos, a Hermetic allegory which also evokes resonances with the Grail Romances and the Knights Templar. At this time, with the eclipse of the House of Lorraine, the Priory transferred its allegiance to the more influential Stuarts after Frederick of the Palatinate married Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of James I of England. Frederick "created a culture, a Rosicrucian state with its court centered on Heidelberg."
Robert Boyle (1654-91) -
part of the "Invisible College" of dynamic English and European minds which became the Royal Society after the restoration of the monarch in 1160 with the Stuart ruler, Charles II as its patron and sponsor. His two closest friends were Isaac Newton and John Locke who met regularly with him to study alchemical works.
In the ancient world alchemy was referred to simply as the sacred art. It flourished in the first three centuries A.D. in Alexandria, where it was the combined product of glass and metal technology, a Hellenistic philosophy of the unity of all things through the four elements (earth, air, water, fire), and occult religion and astrology. The essential principle was that all things, both animate and inanimate, were permeated by spirit, and that the substances of the lower world could, through a synthesis of chemical operations and imaginative reasoning, be transmuted into higher things of the spiritual world - things not subject to decay.
Napoleon Bonaparte -
Sion appears to have been at the nexus of two French anti-monarchical movements, the Compagnie du St.-Sacrament of the 17th century (acting on behalf on the Guise-Lorraine families) and the Fronde of the 18th, as well as an attempt to make the Hapsburgs emperors of all Europe in the 19th- the Hieron du Val dOr.
In 1796 Napoleon was one of three revolutionary Directors heading the government. Another Director was Abbe Sieyes, who knew of certain genealogical researches that had been undertaken by one Abbe Pichon. Pichon had access to the royal archives captured by the revolutionary government, where some important genealogies had been hidden away, and he discovered that a direct descent from Dagobert II had been maintained up to then. Abbe Seiyes urged Napoleon to marry Josephine Beauhamais because she was a Merovingian descendant, and to adopt her two children by a previous marriage who were of this anciently royal stock." In 1798 "on the way to Egypt, Bonaparte detoured to capture Malta and the treasure held by the Knights of Malta.
During second world war in France, a recent grand master of the Prieure de Sion, M. Plantard, was grand master of Alpha Galantes.
"He hinted that beneath its pro-Vichy and Petainist patina, Vaincre [the journal of Alpha Galantes] contained coded messages and instruction which would have been decipherable only to the Resistance....Vaincre had been printed by Poirier Murat, Chevalier of the Legion dHonneur, holder of the Medaille Militaire and officer in the French Resistance." "According to Vaincre and Alpha Galantes, chivalry was to be the instrument of national renewal for France: ...a chivalry is indispensable because our country cannot be reborn except through its knights."
"He hinted that beneath its pro-Vichy and Petainist patina, Vaincre [the journal of Alpha Galantes] contained coded messages and instruction which would have been decipherable only to the Resistance....Vaincre had been printed by Poirier Murat, Chevalier of the Legion dHonneur, holder of the Medaille Militaire and officer in the French Resistance."
"According to Vaincre and Alpha Galantes, chivalry was to be the instrument of national renewal for France: ...a chivalry is indispensable because our country cannot be reborn except through its knights."
In the fifth issue of Vaincre, dated 21 January 1943, a great German, one of the Masters in our Order" is quoted as saying:
"It is therefore with total confidence that I depart to perform my mission; for while not deluding myself about the perils I run in discharging my duty, I know that until my last breath my watchword will consist in recognition of Alpha and fidelity to its chief.
This statement is ascribed to Hans von Moltke, a career diplomat" and "also a cousin of Claus von Stauffenberg.... Helmut James von Moltke, together with Peter Yorck von Wartenburg, was the leader of the so-called Kreisau Circle, the civilian wing of the German Resistance to Hitler.
Both Alpha Galantes and the Kreisau Circle,
"were intent on youth movements and on mobilizing the resources of European youth. Both insisted on a moral and spiritual renewal - an opposition, in Moltkes words, based on fundamental principles. Both were essentially chivalric in their orientation. And both were dedicated to the eventual creation of a United States of Europe."
During the Second World War, while Poher was doing something heroic in the Resistance to win the Resistance Medal and the Croix de Guerre, and while Plantard [future Nautonnier of the Priory of Sion] defied the Nazis and suffered torture for it, the Cross of Lorraine was adopted as the symbol of the Free French forces under Charles de Gaulle. This cross, having two cross-bars instead of one, originated with the ancient French house of Anjou, where Guiot found his tale about Percival. It was later adopted by the Merovingian-descended rulers of Lorraine in the old Sicambrian heartland on the Rhine.
Return to Priory Sion
Return to Temas/Sociopolitica
