# Project Camelot Interviews Dr Pete Peterson - Part 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_petepeterson02.htm

Project Camelot Interviews Dr Pete Peterson
Part 2
Related Reports for Part 2
The "information field" and how the body, the mind, and DNA really function Healing modalities which work very rapidly and effectively
The "information field" and how the body, the mind, and DNA really function
Healing modalities which work very rapidly and effectively
Video Transcription
DAVID WILCOCK (DW): Okay. Now, Pete, one of the questions that I had for you is that you had mentioned before that you didnt like the term consciousness field, and you would prefer the term information field. I was wondering if you could explain why that distinction was made in your discussion? Dr. PETE PETERSON (PP): Because, to me, the consciousness field deals with consciousness and the information field is mostly unconscious. DW: Id like to double click on that and get more information on that link. PP: Well, [laughs] the information field holds everything in the known universe, and, theres consciousness each person has their own consciousness and their own consciousness field. Its one of the characteristics of individuality, or Ill say information field. Its one of the characteristics of the information field that I think the best English word for is the soul or spirit. The individual consciousness field of each person is very, very different. The information field holds everyones consciousness, while the consciousness field holds each individuals consciousness, or their... I guess we could say spiritual characteristic, though I use spiritual in a very different method than its used by religions. DW: My witness, Daniel, referred to spirit as the intellect. He said that the intellectual aspects of mind are non-local, that theyre not happening in the nervous system at all. Theyre in the field where those cognitive processes take place. PP: I absolutely agree with that. Theyre definitely non-localized. Theyre in the consciousness field, which is not localized with the person whatsoever. Its everywhere and every-when. Its not a device. Its not a part of the neural or even non-neural anatomy. Its a field. Its like a magnetic field or an electric field in some respects in the respects of a field but its non-local, even though it appears to be somewhat centered around the actual individual. It may be what some people call the aura. But it also has tentacles, if you would, that extend through time and space to infinity. DW: Theres a Russian scientist named Budakovski who takes a holographic photograph of a healthy raspberry plant, shines that light into a raspberry tumor, and the tumor cells rearrange into healthy raspberry cells and it grows a new plant. Are you familiar with anything like that? PP: Well, I am. I wasnt aware of that experiment and would very much like to be, because Im looking for things that I can instrument and observe, to try to come to some conclusions. But that to me is... it would be a necessity that things be that way. DW: Right. PP: Id like to be familiar with the experiment; but, for example, I found out in human medicine, for example, Ive come to the conclusion - and feel I can prove that to any competent neuro-anatomist - that the DNA is merely a factory that generates the physical part of the body. The DNA gets its information from the informational field in how to do that. So you find that the informational field is eternal and holds the spirit or the being or the information of the person in perfection whereas the perfection then runs through the factory. If the factory is missing the thing that puts the wheels on, the wheels are going to fall off, if you would. And so, the DNA problems that you get with human health and anatomies are errors that are in the DNA, which it appears, are pretty much passed down through the family tree. But theres also information that comes down through the family tree, and thats shown by a lot of work that was done by Joseph Chilton Pearce, for example, reported by him in The Magical Child. Theres information thats transmitted to heart tissue actually brain tissue thats in the heart and that holds most of the persons information about emotional things, and a lot of information about taste. For example, they found people with heart transplants all of a sudden loved mustard when they couldnt stand it beforehand. And they find that the person that was the donor loved mustard. They find that the person that was the donor was a very loving person, where the person who lost their heart lost it because of a lot of frustration and a lot of stress and they were a person that wasnt a loving person. Now they become a very loving person, and the people around them have no idea how to relate to them. DW: Does each person have the same degree of contact with this information field, or consciousness field? PP: I would doubt that they do because theyre all individual. For example, there are people who just seem to be informationally troubled, if you would, which has nothing to do with being, you know, personally troubled. But they seem to have problems, even when you go in and correct things in their... This is from a health field, because I spent many years in that field building medical instruments. Theyre all computerized and we had, you know, years and years and thousands of patient visits that we could go back and take a look at and correlate the long-term data. That was the instruments that have been out there now for 28 years in the marketplace, and some 16,000-plus instruments around the world, and well over a million-and-a-half patient visits. So we correlated that data and have shown that much of this must be the way that things are. So, like the statement that you made was one that I absolutely agree with, that out of necessity there has to be an informational field, and out of necessity there has to be something that drives the DNA. Now weve done some experiments showing that we can generate this field around the body and the body will act as if the DNA were perfect. If they had a genetic disease, the genetic disease goes away. Now with the advent of stem cell research, we find out that we can use a persons own stem cells in the body and heighten this field around the body, and the cells they had, that are replicable cells, that had a genetic problem, the genetic problem goes away because the informational field holds the perfect information rather than the flawed information of the gene itself. DW: Well, thats like the Budakovski raspberry thing I told you. PP: Exactly. DW: The tumor was transformed. Yeah. PP: Yep. DW: How can someone strengthen their contact with this field that they have? Do you have any exercises, or ways, or technology perhaps, anything that they could do? PP: I have technology that could do that, and thats one of the products that I intend to come out with once we get the laboratory and factory completely built. DW: Well, thats tantalizing, but what have you done? What could you do? What could it do for someone? PP: Well know that once we get it done and do the testing on it, so... I know what I think it would do and, you know, weve been very successful with these instruments. The American Medical Association publishes every year the number of clinical diagnoses that their doctors, they feel that their doctors got correct. This year it jumped all the way up to 6% from 5% the previous year. We have 85% of the patients that use the medical equipment that Im talking about, 85% of the patients feel that within two days they dont have what they had when they came. DW: Do you believe in acupuncture points on the body? PP: Well, I have to believe in them because theyre there, and you can go to Radio Shack, or you can go to Harbor Freight and buy a $4.00 or $5.00 dollar meter and adjust the meter appropriately and run those on the body and find every one of the points, put a little dot there; go compare yourself to an acupuncture chart, and youll look exactly the same. I did find out how the acupuncture system works. There have been a number of people that postulated it, but they didnt show that it worked. I worked with Dr. Jean Claude De Roche at the French Institute of Science. Hes a very famous acupuncturist. He taught the Chinese acupuncture. They did away with acupuncture in the 20s and made it illegal, even though it was practiced down every alley, and then during the Cultural Revolution they brought it back. The reason for that was they had a huge plague and acupuncture wouldnt cure the plague but penicillin would. So the French missionaries brought in penicillin and so they did away with acupuncture and went with penicillin. But acupuncture has its definite uses, as does the sister of acupuncture, which is Chinese herbal medicine. It makes sense [that] if you put certain chemicals in the body and certain precursors, youre going to get certain chemical reactions out of the body. So, anyway, the acupuncture system is very interesting. What we did is we injected radioactive potassium into each acupuncture point while the person was under a high-speed CAT-scan machine, and we found that the radioactivity moved directly to the organ associated with that point... KERRY CASSIDY (KC): Oh, wow. PP: ...for the 3,300 years that the Neijing has been around talking about it, and for the 6,200 years that Ayurvedic medicine has been talking about it. So we found there was a direct correlation to, not only to the organ system, but to actual parts of it. For example, down the outside of the thumb you have a point that gives you information about the entire lymphatic system just below the first joint. But above the first joint, it talks about the lymphatics that are in the tonsillary ring. When we inject here [touching the side his left thumb], the radioactive material goes to the tonsillary ring. When we inject here [touching same thumb, but closer to bottom knuckle], it goes the whole lymphatic system. You go down [indicating different points down the side of the thumb] and, you know, it goes on down the body. The same thing, you know, if you work across the hand, you have lymph and lung and circulation and etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. [pointing to different places on his hand] You come over here and you have the heart and the small intestine. You can go down and inject here and it goes to the mitral valve. Here it goes to the aorta. Here it goes to, you know, this chamber, that chamber, etcetera, etcetera. Then you go down on the feet, the acupuncture points are the same thing. We also found that the acupuncture points, the acupuncture meridians arent veins, they arent vessels. The acupuncture meridians, as theyre called, arent really meridians. Theyre made up of a... If youve ever cleaned a game animal or a chicken, youll notice that between the organs or done surgery between the organs theres a white filmy layer. That layer is built up like a baklava. Its built up in a number of layers, and each of those layers is a capacitive, conductive surface, not meant for conducting materials such as radioactive potassium, [laughs] but it works as does anything in the body. The body is a biological mechanism. It works like the intestine does, peristaltically, like the heart does, peristaltically. Its ionic in nature, so its polarized, so it pulsates and moves information. So that system was an information system. The points are just above and below each joint, and you have them down each side of the hand. Theyre around an area thats about a 45-degree angle toward the finger. And you can take something like a ball point pen I dont see one here [picks up a pen] but you can take, not the point of the pen but the point of the case, and you can probe about a 45-degree angle just above and below each joint. Most people dont know theres a joint just like this joint and this joint and this joint [pointing to the back of his had with the pen], right down here at the wrist. You can probe those places, and on ones where youre having a problem with the organ or organ system, youll find a little hard nodule under the skin, just above and below the joint, at about 45 [degrees]. If you rub back and forth past those, ones that arent too bad, ones you dont have a bad problem, youll feel the little nodule but it will actually palpate like it were a little grain of rice filled with coarse sand. Youll feel a grittiness or a graininess. And you go up below the joint and above the joint, and so you can tell where you have a problem. Now, what acupuncturists dont want you to know is, if you take something thats a little milder rounded and rub that point, itll feel really good if you have a problem there. And if you take a piece of metal and do the same thing, different points will feel differently because the metal thing tends to discharge an excess of electric field there, and plastic would tend to charge up a point of extra field there. It turns out theres a type of material called an electret. An electret is to electric field like a magnet is to a magnetic field. So theres a way of putting a permanent electric charge on a piece of plastic. All the microphones in little tape recorders youve ever seen, 99% of them are electret microphones where you have a little piece of film with a permanent charge. As the voice hits it, the film vibrates. Then theres a piece of metal next to it and you measure the voltage between the two, feed it into the device, and thats where the voice signal comes from. So you can make an electret and rub the various points and itll just feel really good. And you rub it one time or 50 times, and all of a sudden, itll quit feeling good and you move onto the next point. If you do that on your fingers and on your feet, youll feel really, really good. Itll normally alleviate almost any problem you have. Thats what an acupuncturist does. They can find where those places are that you need to have a treatment and do it that way. Another way to do it is use an acupuncture needle and stick it into the point to charge it or discharge it, and theres a way to put it in to do either. So, one of the products that we came up with is two little pieces of metal that you can have little indentations on them and you can rub your points. Those pieces of metal have a number of holes in them, and people asked us what the holes were for, if it was critical to the use of the unit, and I said: No. Thats where you tie a shoelace, and if you loan it to somebody, you keep one hand with a shoelace around because they wont give it back to you, it feels so good. [laughter] PP: So we have tooling to make those and I probably need to make another batch of them. But anyway, we found that these were there. Now, it turns out that these points like this is the lymphatic system here [pointing to the back of his hand], and this is the lung system here, and if you go clear to the end of what... and there are points up the body. If you go clear to the end of where that meridian is, they all end at a tooth root. The teeth are piezoelectric. When you squeeze a piezoelectric material, it generates a voltage. DW: Discharge. PP: Or if you take a piece of piezoelectric material and apply a voltage, it expands or contracts. The teeth are piezoelectric. So thats why you should take very good care of your teeth and dont get a root canal unless you absolutely have to have it, and, not that youll die, but your health will go down. So there are some things that we have, these little devices, will make up for that and will charge you up. Especially people who are missing a lot of teeth get a real, real success from that, and they have very, very pronounced little nodules, and their nodules are usually hard like a rock. If they keep massaging them from time to time until it quits feeling... It feels as good as a scratch on a good itch, and when it quits feeling good, move to the next one. And after a period of time youll feel the granularity, and after a period of time itll just get softer and there wont be any little nodule under the skin. DW: My mother had a large nodule right here and it finally went away, but she worked on it for a couple of years. It was on the middle finger. PP: I have one here, as a matter of fact. [laughs] And it comes and goes. DW: So youre saying that the tissues around the organs have an ionic transfer system, which is... PP: No. To the organ. Theyre around the organ, but they go all the way up the body. If you start stripping out neural tissue... in fact, its kind of an interesting thing. Most people dont know that lions and tigers never eat muscle tissue; its highly toxic. They strip out the blood veins, the vessels, the neural tissue. They eat intestines and they eat, you know, the heart and the internal organs. They dont eat muscle tissue. DW: Really? PP: Yep. If they feed em muscle tissue and they only give em muscle tissue, theyll eat it, but they get very ill. Its very highly toxic. But people eat all the muscle tissue and throw the good parts away. BILL RYAN (BR): Does that mean that we shouldnt eat a good raw steak if youre a meat eater? PP: Unfortunately. [sighs] Its very obvious that I eat anything thats slower than I am. [laughter] But that does mean that. As good as it tastes, its not good for you. DW: Im just trying to understand... PP: Thats also why the kosher meats have a very specific way of sneaking up on the animal and not alarming them and very mercifully putting them out of their... demise. Its because they dont want that animal to get excited and release a lot of toxins into the muscle tissue. DW: Hm. This is not... PP: Whether they know it or not. DW: This is not the typical nervous system youre talking about, with sodium... PP: No. Theres no nervous system there. Its what Im saying. DW: Right. PP: Its a completely different system. There was a Korean fellow, Kim Bong Jung, who postulated that there was... He said: I found the neural system and here are pictures of the little tubules that carry a yellow fluid, etcetera, etcetera. And thats all been reported. You can find that all over the Internet and you can find it all over medical literature. But what it doesnt report is that four years later he committed suicide and said he was sorry for perpetrating such a hoax. There isnt that system. People looked for it and couldnt find it and finally he just had to admit that he made it all up. DW: Hm. PP: And so, that isnt the system. We found how it worked because we injected the radioactive potassium and then we looked at it and watched it go through the body. And it goes exceedingly fast. If you took blood from the tip of this finger and traced it back to the heart, it doesnt move very fast. It moves very, very slowly. It doesnt race through your veins. But if you inject the radioactive potassium there, we had to get a higher speed CAT-scan machine to even see it. It really races. Its the frequency of this. Its like milking a cow or a goat its a peristaltic action, and it really races through there. Its a very high frequency. DW: Now, youre saying this is all happening, some interface with the consciousness field or the information field? PP: The informational field. DW: Okay. Could you explain that? Whats the energetic component? PP: I really... Yeah, thats a couple hour lecture. DW: Well, could I get the elevator version? [laughter] PP: Theres not really an elevator version. It depends where it is, what it is, what the problem is, which meridian it is. DW: Okay. If an organ is dysfunctional, why would it matter whats going on in your hand? PP: It doesnt. It makes whats going on in your hand. It creates whats going on in your hand. DW: Okay. So, because theyre the extremities, somehow... PP: Because were built that way. KC: Youre saying you can either heal it on the hand or you can heal it directly on the organ, right? PP: No. KC: No? PP: No, I wasnt saying that at all. What Im saying is that problems in the organ manifest themselves both physically and informationally at the appropriate points on the body. Now, if you think about it, when you build a car; any car that youve had in the last 10 or 12 years has an electrical connector under the seat. You plug a computer in there and itll say: The oxygen sensors bad. The brakes are getting weak. Itll say a number of things. So, lets assume that somehow, whether divinely or by genetics, we were designed. Why not design a system where you could test the thing? I mean, we dont come with an operators manual, but maybe we come with a system that is very easy for us to find out what the problem is and then alter things. Now, one thing we found out is that every substance has an informational field around it. We found out a way to take that substance, place it on a device, and from the device find a numerical signature for that information field. Then we found a way, therefore, to store it in a computer. Now we can take the computer and run that information back out and generate an informational field. We can make that field large, so it surrounds the body. And we can then measure in real time at these points, some of which - most of which - are acupuncture points, and some arent. There are some acupuncture points that we find dont do anything, even though theyre classical points. Now, you know, 6,000 years ago, or 3,300 years ago, they didnt have any kind of measurement instruments, so we now have a bio-feedback system that will actually do that. DW: A lot of our audience is going to think of the Rife machine when you say these numerical signatures. PP: Thats very unfortunate. DW: Okay? PP: Because theres no correlation whatever. It has nothing to do with the Rife machine. DW: Okay. KC: Didnt you work for Royal Rife? PP: I worked for Rife for a period of time, yes. I know how his instruments worked and it has no bearing on this whatsoever. This is a very gross, mechanical type of thing. DW: Okay. PP: And it doesnt work at all like anybody thinks. Thats another story. But, anyway... threw me off a little bit here in my thinking about this. DW: You can play a signature for a specific compound. PP: Yeah, we can make a signature of a compound, and what happens is, the body will react to that informational field as if you had given the person that substance. So you can go to an acupuncture point and get information from it that you can graph and chart on a machine, and it will tell you whether that organ is in a type of inflammatory process, or in a degenerative process, and how much, how long its been there, whether its winning the battle or losing the battle. Then you can put the person in an informational field from a substance that you think may solve that problem, and ask the body. The body will react exactly as if youve given that substance, so you can select a type of treatment. BR: When somebody is given a placebo, are they affecting their own informational field? PP: Absolutely. Placebos work 50 percent of the time, and it isnt because placebos have a physical effect. They have a mental effect in some instances, and they have an informational effect in some instances. BR: So you should be able to affect your own informational field without a placebo. PP: Yes. People asked me when I built these very complex computerized machines that do the diagnosis and selection of treatment, they asked me: Whats your goal for this machine? And I said: My goal is, when the doctor throws the thing in the Dempsey Dumpster, and just does it. That can be done. However, the machine takes away his emotional state and his emotional interference with it, and the patients emotional state and the patients emotional characteristics with it. But, one of the machines that I want to come out with in the future is one thats a bio-feedback device that allows the patient to put himself in an informational or mental state that affects the problem with the body. That can be done. It can easily be done, and other than gross poisoning, or gross over-consumption of something... For example, its very beneficial to have vitamin A. We dont get enough vitamin A in our bodies. But, you take too much vitamin A and youll find yourself gaining water and getting ascites, and some people die from it. Many people almost die from it. So, too much of a good thing is too much, no matter how good the thing is. DW: A lot of people are going to want to know, is anybody using this technology? Are there any doctors that are using it? PP: There are, right now, in the United States, that I know of, 18,000 clinics. DW: Eighteen thousand? PP: Eighteen thousand clinics using this technology. I taught seven companies how to make it. About five other companies came in and stole the information from them, which, if theyd come and asked me, Id have handed it to them. DW: Hm. PP: Because I knew it was going to need 20 or 25 years out there before it got itself established. And so what I did was I let other people do it, and I ran around in front of them like the man that runs in front of a curling stone and sweeping a pathway for it. I went around in front of them sweeping a pathway in front of the FDA.
DAVID WILCOCK (DW): Okay. Now, Pete, one of the questions that I had for you is that you had mentioned before that you didnt like the term consciousness field, and you would prefer the term information field. I was wondering if you could explain why that distinction was made in your discussion? Dr. PETE PETERSON (PP): Because, to me, the consciousness field deals with consciousness and the information field is mostly unconscious. DW: Id like to double click on that and get more information on that link. PP: Well, [laughs] the information field holds everything in the known universe, and, theres consciousness each person has their own consciousness and their own consciousness field. Its one of the characteristics of individuality, or Ill say information field. Its one of the characteristics of the information field that I think the best English word for is the soul or spirit. The individual consciousness field of each person is very, very different. The information field holds everyones consciousness, while the consciousness field holds each individuals consciousness, or their... I guess we could say spiritual characteristic, though I use spiritual in a very different method than its used by religions. DW: My witness, Daniel, referred to spirit as the intellect. He said that the intellectual aspects of mind are non-local, that theyre not happening in the nervous system at all. Theyre in the field where those cognitive processes take place. PP: I absolutely agree with that. Theyre definitely non-localized. Theyre in the consciousness field, which is not localized with the person whatsoever. Its everywhere and every-when. Its not a device. Its not a part of the neural or even non-neural anatomy. Its a field. Its like a magnetic field or an electric field in some respects in the respects of a field but its non-local, even though it appears to be somewhat centered around the actual individual. It may be what some people call the aura. But it also has tentacles, if you would, that extend through time and space to infinity. DW: Theres a Russian scientist named Budakovski who takes a holographic photograph of a healthy raspberry plant, shines that light into a raspberry tumor, and the tumor cells rearrange into healthy raspberry cells and it grows a new plant. Are you familiar with anything like that? PP: Well, I am. I wasnt aware of that experiment and would very much like to be, because Im looking for things that I can instrument and observe, to try to come to some conclusions. But that to me is... it would be a necessity that things be that way. DW: Right. PP: Id like to be familiar with the experiment; but, for example, I found out in human medicine, for example, Ive come to the conclusion - and feel I can prove that to any competent neuro-anatomist - that the DNA is merely a factory that generates the physical part of the body. The DNA gets its information from the informational field in how to do that. So you find that the informational field is eternal and holds the spirit or the being or the information of the person in perfection whereas the perfection then runs through the factory. If the factory is missing the thing that puts the wheels on, the wheels are going to fall off, if you would. And so, the DNA problems that you get with human health and anatomies are errors that are in the DNA, which it appears, are pretty much passed down through the family tree. But theres also information that comes down through the family tree, and thats shown by a lot of work that was done by Joseph Chilton Pearce, for example, reported by him in The Magical Child. Theres information thats transmitted to heart tissue actually brain tissue thats in the heart and that holds most of the persons information about emotional things, and a lot of information about taste. For example, they found people with heart transplants all of a sudden loved mustard when they couldnt stand it beforehand. And they find that the person that was the donor loved mustard. They find that the person that was the donor was a very loving person, where the person who lost their heart lost it because of a lot of frustration and a lot of stress and they were a person that wasnt a loving person. Now they become a very loving person, and the people around them have no idea how to relate to them. DW: Does each person have the same degree of contact with this information field, or consciousness field? PP: I would doubt that they do because theyre all individual. For example, there are people who just seem to be informationally troubled, if you would, which has nothing to do with being, you know, personally troubled. But they seem to have problems, even when you go in and correct things in their... This is from a health field, because I spent many years in that field building medical instruments. Theyre all computerized and we had, you know, years and years and thousands of patient visits that we could go back and take a look at and correlate the long-term data. That was the instruments that have been out there now for 28 years in the marketplace, and some 16,000-plus instruments around the world, and well over a million-and-a-half patient visits. So we correlated that data and have shown that much of this must be the way that things are. So, like the statement that you made was one that I absolutely agree with, that out of necessity there has to be an informational field, and out of necessity there has to be something that drives the DNA. Now weve done some experiments showing that we can generate this field around the body and the body will act as if the DNA were perfect. If they had a genetic disease, the genetic disease goes away.
Now with the advent of stem cell research, we find out that we can use a persons own stem cells in the body and heighten this field around the body, and the cells they had, that are replicable cells, that had a genetic problem, the genetic problem goes away because the informational field holds the perfect information rather than the flawed information of the gene itself. DW: Well, thats like the Budakovski raspberry thing I told you. PP: Exactly. DW: The tumor was transformed. Yeah. PP: Yep. DW: How can someone strengthen their contact with this field that they have? Do you have any exercises, or ways, or technology perhaps, anything that they could do? PP: I have technology that could do that, and thats one of the products that I intend to come out with once we get the laboratory and factory completely built. DW: Well, thats tantalizing, but what have you done? What could you do? What could it do for someone? PP: Well know that once we get it done and do the testing on it, so... I know what I think it would do and, you know, weve been very successful with these instruments. The American Medical Association publishes every year the number of clinical diagnoses that their doctors, they feel that their doctors got correct. This year it jumped all the way up to 6% from 5% the previous year. We have 85% of the patients that use the medical equipment that Im talking about, 85% of the patients feel that within two days they dont have what they had when they came. DW: Do you believe in acupuncture points on the body? PP: Well, I have to believe in them because theyre there, and you can go to Radio Shack, or you can go to Harbor Freight and buy a $4.00 or $5.00 dollar meter and adjust the meter appropriately and run those on the body and find every one of the points, put a little dot there; go compare yourself to an acupuncture chart, and youll look exactly the same. I did find out how the acupuncture system works. There have been a number of people that postulated it, but they didnt show that it worked. I worked with Dr. Jean Claude De Roche at the French Institute of Science. Hes a very famous acupuncturist. He taught the Chinese acupuncture. They did away with acupuncture in the 20s and made it illegal, even though it was practiced down every alley, and then during the Cultural Revolution they brought it back. The reason for that was they had a huge plague and acupuncture wouldnt cure the plague but penicillin would. So the French missionaries brought in penicillin and so they did away with acupuncture and went with penicillin. But acupuncture has its definite uses, as does the sister of acupuncture, which is Chinese herbal medicine. It makes sense [that] if you put certain chemicals in the body and certain precursors, youre going to get certain chemical reactions out of the body. So, anyway, the acupuncture system is very interesting. What we did is we injected radioactive potassium into each acupuncture point while the person was under a high-speed CAT-scan machine, and we found that the radioactivity moved directly to the organ associated with that point...
KERRY CASSIDY (KC): Oh, wow. PP: ...for the 3,300 years that the Neijing has been around talking about it, and for the 6,200 years that Ayurvedic medicine has been talking about it. So we found there was a direct correlation to, not only to the organ system, but to actual parts of it. For example, down the outside of the thumb you have a point that gives you information about the entire lymphatic system just below the first joint. But above the first joint, it talks about the lymphatics that are in the tonsillary ring. When we inject here [touching the side his left thumb], the radioactive material goes to the tonsillary ring. When we inject here [touching same thumb, but closer to bottom knuckle], it goes the whole lymphatic system. You go down [indicating different points down the side of the thumb] and, you know, it goes on down the body. The same thing, you know, if you work across the hand, you have lymph and lung and circulation and etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. [pointing to different places on his hand] You come over here and you have the heart and the small intestine. You can go down and inject here and it goes to the mitral valve. Here it goes to the aorta. Here it goes to, you know, this chamber, that chamber, etcetera, etcetera. Then you go down on the feet, the acupuncture points are the same thing. We also found that the acupuncture points, the acupuncture meridians arent veins, they arent vessels. The acupuncture meridians, as theyre called, arent really meridians. Theyre made up of a... If youve ever cleaned a game animal or a chicken, youll notice that between the organs or done surgery between the organs theres a white filmy layer. That layer is built up like a baklava. Its built up in a number of layers, and each of those layers is a capacitive, conductive surface, not meant for conducting materials such as radioactive potassium, [laughs] but it works as does anything in the body. The body is a biological mechanism. It works like the intestine does, peristaltically, like the heart does, peristaltically. Its ionic in nature, so its polarized, so it pulsates and moves information. So that system was an information system. The points are just above and below each joint, and you have them down each side of the hand. Theyre around an area thats about a 45-degree angle toward the finger. And you can take something like a ball point pen I dont see one here [picks up a pen] but you can take, not the point of the pen but the point of the case, and you can probe about a 45-degree angle just above and below each joint. Most people dont know theres a joint just like this joint and this joint and this joint [pointing to the back of his had with the pen], right down here at the wrist. You can probe those places, and on ones where youre having a problem with the organ or organ system, youll find a little hard nodule under the skin, just above and below the joint, at about 45 [degrees]. If you rub back and forth past those, ones that arent too bad, ones you dont have a bad problem, youll feel the little nodule but it will actually palpate like it were a little grain of rice filled with coarse sand. Youll feel a grittiness or a graininess. And you go up below the joint and above the joint, and so you can tell where you have a problem. Now, what acupuncturists dont want you to know is, if you take something thats a little milder rounded and rub that point, itll feel really good if you have a problem there. And if you take a piece of metal and do the same thing, different points will feel differently because the metal thing tends to discharge an excess of electric field there, and plastic would tend to charge up a point of extra field there. It turns out theres a type of material called an electret. An electret is to electric field like a magnet is to a magnetic field. So theres a way of putting a permanent electric charge on a piece of plastic. All the microphones in little tape recorders youve ever seen, 99% of them are electret microphones where you have a little piece of film with a permanent charge. As the voice hits it, the film vibrates. Then theres a piece of metal next to it and you measure the voltage between the two, feed it into the device, and thats where the voice signal comes from. So you can make an electret and rub the various points and itll just feel really good. And you rub it one time or 50 times, and all of a sudden, itll quit feeling good and you move onto the next point. If you do that on your fingers and on your feet, youll feel really, really good. Itll normally alleviate almost any problem you have. Thats what an acupuncturist does. They can find where those places are that you need to have a treatment and do it that way. Another way to do it is use an acupuncture needle and stick it into the point to charge it or discharge it, and theres a way to put it in to do either. So, one of the products that we came up with is two little pieces of metal that you can have little indentations on them and you can rub your points. Those pieces of metal have a number of holes in them, and people asked us what the holes were for, if it was critical to the use of the unit, and I said: No. Thats where you tie a shoelace, and if you loan it to somebody, you keep one hand with a shoelace around because they wont give it back to you, it feels so good. [laughter] PP: So we have tooling to make those and I probably need to make another batch of them. But anyway, we found that these were there. Now, it turns out that these points like this is the lymphatic system here [pointing to the back of his hand], and this is the lung system here, and if you go clear to the end of what... and there are points up the body. If you go clear to the end of where that meridian is, they all end at a tooth root. The teeth are piezoelectric. When you squeeze a piezoelectric material, it generates a voltage. DW: Discharge. PP: Or if you take a piece of piezoelectric material and apply a voltage, it expands or contracts. The teeth are piezoelectric. So thats why you should take very good care of your teeth and dont get a root canal unless you absolutely have to have it, and, not that youll die, but your health will go down. So there are some things that we have, these little devices, will make up for that and will charge you up. Especially people who are missing a lot of teeth get a real, real success from that, and they have very, very pronounced little nodules, and their nodules are usually hard like a rock. If they keep massaging them from time to time until it quits feeling... It feels as good as a scratch on a good itch, and when it quits feeling good, move to the next one. And after a period of time youll feel the granularity, and after a period of time itll just get softer and there wont be any little nodule under the skin. DW: My mother had a large nodule right here and it finally went away, but she worked on it for a couple of years. It was on the middle finger. PP: I have one here, as a matter of fact. [laughs] And it comes and goes. DW: So youre saying that the tissues around the organs have an ionic transfer system, which is... PP: No. To the organ. Theyre around the organ, but they go all the way up the body. If you start stripping out neural tissue... in fact, its kind of an interesting thing. Most people dont know that lions and tigers never eat muscle tissue; its highly toxic. They strip out the blood veins, the vessels, the neural tissue. They eat intestines and they eat, you know, the heart and the internal organs. They dont eat muscle tissue. DW: Really? PP: Yep. If they feed em muscle tissue and they only give em muscle tissue, theyll eat it, but they get very ill. Its very highly toxic. But people eat all the muscle tissue and throw the good parts away.
BILL RYAN (BR): Does that mean that we shouldnt eat a good raw steak if youre a meat eater? PP: Unfortunately. [sighs] Its very obvious that I eat anything thats slower than I am. [laughter] But that does mean that. As good as it tastes, its not good for you. DW: Im just trying to understand... PP: Thats also why the kosher meats have a very specific way of sneaking up on the animal and not alarming them and very mercifully putting them out of their... demise. Its because they dont want that animal to get excited and release a lot of toxins into the muscle tissue. DW: Hm. This is not... PP: Whether they know it or not. DW: This is not the typical nervous system youre talking about, with sodium... PP: No. Theres no nervous system there. Its what Im saying. DW: Right. PP: Its a completely different system. There was a Korean fellow, Kim Bong Jung, who postulated that there was... He said: I found the neural system and here are pictures of the little tubules that carry a yellow fluid, etcetera, etcetera. And thats all been reported. You can find that all over the Internet and you can find it all over medical literature. But what it doesnt report is that four years later he committed suicide and said he was sorry for perpetrating such a hoax. There isnt that system. People looked for it and couldnt find it and finally he just had to admit that he made it all up. DW: Hm. PP: And so, that isnt the system. We found how it worked because we injected the radioactive potassium and then we looked at it and watched it go through the body. And it goes exceedingly fast. If you took blood from the tip of this finger and traced it back to the heart, it doesnt move very fast. It moves very, very slowly. It doesnt race through your veins. But if you inject the radioactive potassium there, we had to get a higher speed CAT-scan machine to even see it. It really races. Its the frequency of this. Its like milking a cow or a goat its a peristaltic action, and it really races through there. Its a very high frequency. DW: Now, youre saying this is all happening, some interface with the consciousness field or the information field? PP: The informational field. DW: Okay. Could you explain that? Whats the energetic component? PP: I really... Yeah, thats a couple hour lecture. DW: Well, could I get the elevator version? [laughter] PP: Theres not really an elevator version. It depends where it is, what it is, what the problem is, which meridian it is. DW: Okay. If an organ is dysfunctional, why would it matter whats going on in your hand? PP: It doesnt. It makes whats going on in your hand. It creates whats going on in your hand. DW: Okay. So, because theyre the extremities, somehow... PP: Because were built that way.
KC: Youre saying you can either heal it on the hand or you can heal it directly on the organ, right? PP: No.
KC: No? PP: No, I wasnt saying that at all. What Im saying is that problems in the organ manifest themselves both physically and informationally at the appropriate points on the body. Now, if you think about it, when you build a car; any car that youve had in the last 10 or 12 years has an electrical connector under the seat. You plug a computer in there and itll say: The oxygen sensors bad. The brakes are getting weak. Itll say a number of things. So, lets assume that somehow, whether divinely or by genetics, we were designed. Why not design a system where you could test the thing? I mean, we dont come with an operators manual, but maybe we come with a system that is very easy for us to find out what the problem is and then alter things. Now, one thing we found out is that every substance has an informational field around it. We found out a way to take that substance, place it on a device, and from the device find a numerical signature for that information field. Then we found a way, therefore, to store it in a computer. Now we can take the computer and run that information back out and generate an informational field. We can make that field large, so it surrounds the body. And we can then measure in real time at these points, some of which - most of which - are acupuncture points, and some arent. There are some acupuncture points that we find dont do anything, even though theyre classical points. Now, you know, 6,000 years ago, or 3,300 years ago, they didnt have any kind of measurement instruments, so we now have a bio-feedback system that will actually do that. DW: A lot of our audience is going to think of the Rife machine when you say these numerical signatures. PP: Thats very unfortunate. DW: Okay? PP: Because theres no correlation whatever. It has nothing to do with the Rife machine. DW: Okay. KC: Didnt you work for Royal Rife? PP: I worked for Rife for a period of time, yes. I know how his instruments worked and it has no bearing on this whatsoever. This is a very gross, mechanical type of thing. DW: Okay. PP: And it doesnt work at all like anybody thinks. Thats another story. But, anyway... threw me off a little bit here in my thinking about this. DW: You can play a signature for a specific compound. PP: Yeah, we can make a signature of a compound, and what happens is, the body will react to that informational field as if you had given the person that substance. So you can go to an acupuncture point and get information from it that you can graph and chart on a machine, and it will tell you whether that organ is in a type of inflammatory process, or in a degenerative process, and how much, how long its been there, whether its winning the battle or losing the battle. Then you can put the person in an informational field from a substance that you think may solve that problem, and ask the body. The body will react exactly as if youve given that substance, so you can select a type of treatment.
BR: When somebody is given a placebo, are they affecting their own informational field? PP: Absolutely. Placebos work 50 percent of the time, and it isnt because placebos have a physical effect. They have a mental effect in some instances, and they have an informational effect in some instances.
BR: So you should be able to affect your own informational field without a placebo. PP: Yes. People asked me when I built these very complex computerized machines that do the diagnosis and selection of treatment, they asked me: Whats your goal for this machine? And I said: My goal is, when the doctor throws the thing in the Dempsey Dumpster, and just does it. That can be done. However, the machine takes away his emotional state and his emotional interference with it, and the patients emotional state and the patients emotional characteristics with it. But, one of the machines that I want to come out with in the future is one thats a bio-feedback device that allows the patient to put himself in an informational or mental state that affects the problem with the body. That can be done. It can easily be done, and other than gross poisoning, or gross over-consumption of something... For example, its very beneficial to have vitamin A. We dont get enough vitamin A in our bodies. But, you take too much vitamin A and youll find yourself gaining water and getting ascites, and some people die from it. Many people almost die from it. So, too much of a good thing is too much, no matter how good the thing is. DW: A lot of people are going to want to know, is anybody using this technology? Are there any doctors that are using it? PP: There are, right now, in the United States, that I know of, 18,000 clinics. DW: Eighteen thousand? PP: Eighteen thousand clinics using this technology. I taught seven companies how to make it. About five other companies came in and stole the information from them, which, if theyd come and asked me, Id have handed it to them. DW: Hm. PP: Because I knew it was going to need 20 or 25 years out there before it got itself established. And so what I did was I let other people do it, and I ran around in front of them like the man that runs in front of a curling stone and sweeping a pathway for it. I went around in front of them sweeping a pathway in front of the FDA.
[Ed. note: Pete is talking about the Scottish sport of Curling, in which a Curling Stone is slid on ice. A man with a broom goes in front of it, sweeping the ice, smoothing the surface so that the stone can slide more freely.]
We got a very, very good publicity man whose mother had been given, I dont know, eight or ten weeks to live, and we kept her alive for another 17 years. DW: Oh my gosh. PP: He felt very happy about that, and so he jumped on our bandwagon. Out of that, it finally ended up, about 10 or 12 years later theres actually an alternative medical branch of the FDA, and that branch handles things like we have. In the meantime, I spent a lot of money, and a lot of time and effort, and got this device actually approved by the FDA. DW: That was my next question. There must be publications. There must be documentation out there. PP: Well, the only documentation I know is, when you put my name into a computer, itll come up and tell what a fraud this device is, and how its a quack device. But if you find out who put that in there, youll find out that he says the same thing about a lot of other things that work. Then if you go and watch the man, youll find that the checks that he cashes at the bank are from large pharmaceutical companies and from the government at times. DW: Right. KC: So, what name are they going to put into the computer for that device? PP: Im not going to say that. Im not interested in thousands of people associating that and being able to show their friends that Im a fraud. Anybody who wants to know if its a fraud, come to me. Ill give you the closest doctor, and you can go there and ask the doctor whether his 3, 5, 7, 10,000 patients that went there, and two days later walked out without their problem, think that its a fraud. Now, I know its not 100% placebo because placebos only work 50% of the time. And even though the medical people - the AMA - says their doctors only get 5% of their clinical diagnoses correct... If they only get, you know, 5% or 6% now this year, of their clinical diagnoses correct, what do you think they get correct with the treatment? You know why they say practicing medicine. Or on the other hand, watch the TV show House, and in each incidence they tried five, or six, or seven treatments, almost killing the patient each time, and then find out what the solution is. You know, hes supposed to be the best diagnostician in the world, you know, on television. But its very true to life. It comes out of Canada. Theyre a lot more frank there. And, you know, you get the picture of practicing medicine. They dont have an idea. They dont have a way to have an idea. So Im now ready, after 28 years of having this device out there and about somewhere between, oh, probably $1.2 to $4 million, or maybe more, patient visits behind it; all computerized. In the medical terminology, its anecdotal because the patient cant tell you if theyre well or they dont have the symptom any longer thats illegal. But, Im now ready to go up against any one of them, because I can prove that my diagnoses with this type of machine are absolutely correct, because when they go look with conventional diagnostic tools and equipment, Ill see the problem as much as 20 years before it manifests itself in the body where common medical things can test it. How can I prove that? Well, Ill wait 20 years and prove it. Thats what weve done. Thats why I have 27 years of testing done on it. Thats why I have people that came and thought it was a fraud and didnt accept the medication, but I watched them over a period of time and saw them eventually die of what I told them they would die from. So I now have enough evidence. Im ready to go and do that, except Im not going to do that because I dont have any desire to be assassinated. I have people that have more testicles than I have that are willing to do it... pardon my 10 years in the Marine Corps. DW: You said theres a lot of clones of this technology out there, people have stolen it from you and... PP: They didnt steal it from me. They stole it from other people. I gave it away, so they couldnt steal it from me. If theyd come to me, Id have given it to them. DW: Is it variable in terms of how well they work, like... PP: Oh, absolutely. The first thing I did was... in my instrument, when you touch the body, in the beginning, the person doesnt know where the points are, so I put a Point Locator. And the Point Locator made a tone, which almost everybody likened it to the sound of a cow that was dying. [laughter] Okay? So, when I gave the people how to build this thing, they built it, and everybody says: Oh, that sounds like a cow dying, so they changed the tone. They eliminated 80% of the effectiveness of the machine, because the tone carried a lot of information, that, if the doctor had only persisted with it for a month, he could then hear that tone and he could cut down diagnosis time from 35 to 40 minutes to 2 to 3 minutes. DW: Wow. PP: It just became natural. Hed: Oh, I know what that means. I know what that tone means. Let me try this, let me try that. He can dial up on the machine now some 850,000 different substances that are in this world. All the medications of every medical system known; all the herbals of every herbal system known; all the magic healing potions of every magic healing potion system known; all the chemicals that are out there that are man-made; all the chemicals that you find in nature; all the vitamins; all the minerals; all the pharmaceuticals in the homeopathic pharmacopeia, and in the allopathic pharmacopeia. Everythings there. So, you can do it; the machine will help you sort those out and find out exactly what will alleviate the problem. And many times youll find something that will alleviate a problem in the, for example, the small intestine, but find that itll aggravate the neural system. So you say: Oh, well there must be another medication thatll work and not counteract something here. So you can go back and find that particular medication. Now you know what to give. Now, you can ask it: Okay, if Im going to give this, how much should I give? Itll tell you an exact amount. And like everything in nature, theres a bell curve produced, a curve that looks like a bell, and you want that medication thats right at the peak of the bell curve. You want just that amount thatll produce that reaction and BANG you give it. Many times when we give the medications to a patient, theyll bounce up and down like they were at Disneyland on Mr. Toads Wild Ride, and theyll say: Ah, ah, Ive had that pain for 20 years and now its gone. Did we heal him? No. Did we cure them? No. Why do I say: No? Because its against the law. Do they believe they were healed? Yes. Did they believe they were cured? Yes. What makes the difference? DW: One thing that I think is really important is, if this video is out there online, theres going to be a lot of people that want to claim that they have this technology to profit from it. PP: Oh, absolutely. DW: And it may not be the one youre actually talking about. PP: Absolutely. DW: How do we prevent against that? Is there any search term we can give people on Google? PP: I dont know that we can prevent against it. DW: Or doctors that are actually using the right one? Or... PP: The problem is that the first, about 6000 doctors I trained, and they had machines that moo-ed like a cow and it was really good, and after that it went downhill. So, again, Im building a laboratory and a factory where I will produce these, and instead of having to do, like you have to do today, pay between $12 and $50,000 dollars for one of the machines... DW: Oh. PP: Ive got one thats built in a fountain pen and well probably sell it for around $99. DW: Wow. BR: But there are similar healing modalities in existence, which is... PP: Oh, there are some that work beautifully. BR: Radionics, you know. Go on... PP: Well, yeah. There are radionics machines that... BR: Im not saying its the same. Im just saying its something that works... PP: Yeah, it works very well. BR: ...in the informational field. PP: Oh, it works very well, and it works with, on... Exactly right. It works through the informational field. DW: Have you heard of the SCANAR, the Russian SCANAR? PP: Ive definitely heard of the SCANAR, having spent about, oh, eight months with the people doing it... DW: Really? PP: ...and working together with them. Theres another machine for pain. Its called the Acuscope, which was brought to this country by Tony Nebrinski who was the KGB man in this country looking for medical technology to send home to Russia. DW: Theres a guy named Dr. Hartmut Muller who built this LED thing that you put on your skin. Is that another one that you think works? PP: No. DW: It doesnt work? PP: No, I didnt say that. DW: Oh. PP: I said there are things that work a lot better. Thats what I meant to say. DW: Okay. But people can also, as you said, massage these points on their hands. PP: The best medical machine I ever invented were these two little things we call Acu-Combs [Ed note: did a search and did not find this device, so the correct spelling of this is unknown.] that you just rub your points with and get well. DW: Is there a way people could build those on their own? PP: They probably could as soon as they saw one, but its easier and cheaper to buy one from me, because I paid thousands of dollars for the tooling and they stamp them out like... DW: Great. PP: ...shells coming out of a machine gun, and they put em in a tumbler and tumble them, and they actually have electric material that we invented to actually do the charging. Its interesting in that you can take one of the units and do it. By the way, you can find out how youll react to any food. One of the best things is that anything that goes in the body, you say: How do my organs react to that? Theres a reason that the highest-paid doctor is the anesthesiologist. Its because he has to pay the most insurance. And I think... I may be wrong. Youd have to check what it is these days, but when I was working on it, two out of every 100 people were killed by the anesthetic. BR: Thats about right. [overtalk] PP: This thing will tell you exactly because this finger and the distal side of the middle finger tells you about food absorption here, and allergy here. It will tell you whether you have an allergic dispensation toward that medicine. That anesthetic, itll tell you how your body will react to it. KC: How does it tell you? PP: By making an indication. Theres an indication on a meter and on a chart. When you learn how to read the meter and learn how to read the chart, which can be taught in approximately one minute, you can tell whether youre going to have an allergic reaction or not. Another thing we found was, out of a major universitys animal husbandry department, we found that there are 33 substances that all humans and all animals are allergic to. Most of them are phenolic compounds that have a 6-sided benzene ring in the molecule, and a couple are hormones, and a couple are proteins. We found out that we can measure here and we can find out exactly if you have allergies, exactly what youre allergic to. Then we can take that material and prepare it homeopathically and give you a couple drops under the tongue and that allergy will disappear entirely. Then, after a period of time, it may come back, and well find that you need a homeopathic remedy of a different, what they call potency or strength, and then you take that. Sometimes it takes you three or four days to chase this thing around and find out exactly what you need, but eventually youll get to an end point, and you wont have that allergy. As far as I know, and weve tested people now for 28 years, nobodys ever had an allergy come back. DW: Wow. PP: And were dealing strictly with an informational system here that modern science refuses to do. But it doesnt seem to make much difference to those people who had allergies and dont, that modern science doesnt like it. It doesnt fit their paradigm, which is wrong. BR: I just want to say, on camera here, that what we are very clear about, having spent quite some time talking with you, that youre not trying to get rich through any of this. You want to make this technology available. PP: No, I dont. No, I have no need to make any money. The only reason I want to build the things is so theyre built right, and they moo like a cow [laughter] a dying cow. Because that gives it... that lets the doctor do the treatment for much less, or the diagnoses for much less money. And remember, the doctor only uses this to help him in making his diagnoses. The diagnoses cant be made by a machine, only made by a doctor. BR: Yeah. PP: Thats why in the beginning, we only sold them to card-carrying AMA, card-carrying MDs. Then we sold a few to chiropractors. We sold a few of them to osteopaths, a few of them to naturopaths. Then, the first person to have one that was a veterinarian was the Veterinary Commissioner for the State of Nevada, and she started using them. Then we have now... I quit keeping track when I started trying to keep in front of these people and keep them out of trouble for using them. And weve not had any trouble in using them, because we kept them out of trouble. Anyway, at the time all this was maybe 18 years ago there were about 350 veterinarians using them and they were working perfectly. They could find out what problems animals had, and how to solve the problem. BR: Folks, were coming to the end of our third hour and there may be a number of other topics which we want to touch on before, well, while we have the opportunity. I know there are a number of other topics. Ive had my share of the cherry. David, is there more things youd like to pick up on? I know that Kerrys got some questions too. DW: Yeah. Im just sensitive to all the emails that are going to be coming in. People are going to want to know how to buy these little plates, so if you say you can machine them, once youre ready to do that, can you give us the information? PP: If I had orders, I could probably ship within two weeks. DW: Okay. PP: I cant tell you what they cost. I know that one of the plates out of necessity needs to be copper. I know that one of the plates, the factory that used to make my electric material has gone out of business. DW: Hm. PP: So, either Ill have to make it or find a factory that does it. But we have tooling that fits in a machine called the Amada Punch Press that punches it out faster than you can even see, and then it just has to be tumbled in the right combination of things to make it smooth and easy to handle, so it doesnt have sharp edges on it. DW: But its not that expensive, is the bottom line. PP: Its not really that expensive. The copper in it now costs about $7.00 or $8.00 dollars for the copper plate, and probably much the same for the electric plate. Then we have to stamp it and process it. It comes normally in a little carrying case with a separation between the two. DW: Okay. PP: And a little set of cards that you can fold out that shows all the points on the hand, all the points on the feet. So there are pressure points where there are things that you deal with; indigestion and headaches and that kind of thing. DW: Well you have your first order right now. PP: [laughs] Yeah. Ive taken them to, oh, I dont know, maybe a couple hundred health fairs and Psychotronic Association meetings, the Global Science Congress and Tesla Society meetings and dowsing meetings and so forth, and Ive never taken them... I started with taking 20, and then Id take 50, and then Id take 100, and Ive never found the time that I didnt sell out before noon... DW: Right. PP: ...on the first day. Once I sell three or four, then everybody is... people cant put it down. So theyre standing there doing it, people [saying]: Well, whered you get that? What does that do? And the guy is: Here, let me try it. No. I dont have a shoelace. Then Id start giving a shoelace with them so theyd get them back. So, anyway, people like the way it makes them feel, they like the way it makes their hands feel, and they determine by themselves without any help from the government that they actually do something for them that they like and so they buy them. DW: Hm. Well, yeah, I think its really important to note that the healing is within. We all have this power to heal ourselves. PP: Like I said, in any medical device that Ive ever done... And Ive also, by having the machine as a bio-feedback tool, I found a number of substances that do miraculous things for the body. DW: Such as? PP: Out of all those substances, and all the machines, the best thing I ever did was the plates; theyre not expensive. What I tell people is: If you think about this right, you can just throw the plates away... ...which brings up another device that Ill be putting out that looks like a cigarette pack thats a bad thing to use like a pack of playing cards, and maybe thats even bad to use. But its a little device that has a headband that you have a little electrode you soak with salt water in the front and the rear, and it... DW: Salt water? PP: Salt water, just regular salt water, table salt. You put that on and it makes a tone, and we give a little cassette tape that makes a tone, and you can learn to, with your brain, you can learn to match. Its like if I hum or whistle Yankee Doodle ten times, you can hum Yankee Doodle. And if I do Mary Had a Little Lamb, you can do Mary Had a Little Lamb. This makes a sound and you learn to generate that sound by holding your tongue right. Have you ever seen a watchmaker work? DW: The position of your tongue changes the tone? PP: No, no, thats what I didnt want to say. DW: Oh. PP: If you watch someone thats doing precision work, like an engraver or a watchmaker, they do it this way. [sticks his tongue out the side of his mouth] DW: Okay. PP: Yes, they have to hold their tongue in a certain way and it lets them do things. But you dont necessarily have to hold your tongue right, you learn how to hold your mind right. DW: So this gives off an even pitch? But the pitch is varying? PP: No. Its not an even pitch. Its a varying pitch. It sounds like whistling a tune. DW: Okay. PP: So you learn to make that tune by thinking right, and eventually youll put it on and if you do different things mentally, youll get different tones. So, you learn to hold those tones, so you get the tone that was on the little tape. And when you get to that point, you can then alter these things without the plates. You can just do it mentally. DW: This is going to make me sound stupid, but people in the audience are going to compare that the Monroe tapes, with the binaural synchronization in the ears. PP: Yeah. DW: Is there any relationship with those? PP: None whatsoever. DW: I didnt think so. Is this like an EKG, like its a brain wave? PP: No, no. DW: Okay. Whats making the tone? PP: An electrical field thats generated by the body. DW: So, why these two points then? [touching his forehead and center back of his head] PP: Because those are the ones that work. [laughter] DW: Okay. So, is it used only for healing? Or are there other... PP: My favorite thing to do with it is find somebody thats into brainwave analysis and brainwave work, and go have them implement me, and then play Yankee Doodle for them with my brain. They immediately say: Oops, the machine is broken. Weve got to fix it, because nobody can learn to do that. Sorry, I can teach anybody to play Yankee Doodle with their brain in two weeks. DW: But, I mean, are there... PP: And, once you learn to do Yankee Doodle, you can do Mary Had a Little Lamb in about ten minutes. DW: Lets say you have a guy that can move things with his mind; he has telekinesis. PP: Yeah. DW: And he makes a song on this thing. PP: He makes a song, and you buy the song from him, like buying an mp3 thing, and you make that song... chances are very good that youre going to run that little ball bearing around through the maze with your head. DW: Really? PP: Yeah. DW: Thats very interesting. PP: [speaking quietly] I can tell you that government agencies have bought those by the thousands. DW: How would you get an electrode on the back of your head? Isnt that going to go through your hair? PP: Well, surplus-wise, I bought about 10,000 little fold-out razors that are used to scrape hair off the body when a surgeon needs to sew it up. You just put a little shaving cream on it and scrape a little piece off and... DW: And theres a headband you wear? PP: Theres a headband you wear, and theres two little electrodes made out of a special metal, and they have a little cotton sock over them. You soak this; you take water and you put it in a little bowl, and you stir water and salt together until theres no more salt to dissolve, and you dip those in there and squeeze them out a little bit. Use a little wash cloth with some soap on it and wipe the grease off the area here [pointing to his forehead] and the grease off the area back here that youve balded. You put it on, and it works just fine. DW: Wow. How precise do you have to be in placement? Does it have to be right smack on? PP: No, within a couple inches. DW: Oh. PP: No, it doesnt go on the third eye. A lot of your people will ask that. It goes in a different spot. DW: Okay. PP: But its very easy to tell where it goes because you put it on and it isnt making... well call it brainwave noise. Thats not what it is, but then anything that isnt hooked directly to the brain isnt brainwave noise anyway. BR: I have a 60-second question before this tape goes out. Why would the agencies be interested in stuff like this? PP: Oh, I dont know that I can say that. BR: Okay. Well leave it to our imagination. PP: Leave it to your imagination. BR: Okay. PP: I can tell you that there were a lot of them bought at SRI. [Ed. note: Stanford Research Institute] BR: Uh-huh. PP: And a lot of them were bought by... KC: To teach remote influencing. [music begins to fade in] PP: I didnt say that. I didnt even hint that. KC: I said that. PP: I wouldnt do that if I were you. KC: Oh. PP: Not unless youd like a visit. You will have a visit if you mention it. And you wont like it. [fade out] Music plays over PPs voice saying: ...been involved with trying to build flying saucers, you usually found with flying saucers, if you look at most of the movies, there always seems to be a robot involved with it...
We got a very, very good publicity man whose mother had been given, I dont know, eight or ten weeks to live, and we kept her alive for another 17 years. DW: Oh my gosh. PP: He felt very happy about that, and so he jumped on our bandwagon. Out of that, it finally ended up, about 10 or 12 years later theres actually an alternative medical branch of the FDA, and that branch handles things like we have. In the meantime, I spent a lot of money, and a lot of time and effort, and got this device actually approved by the FDA. DW: That was my next question. There must be publications. There must be documentation out there. PP: Well, the only documentation I know is, when you put my name into a computer, itll come up and tell what a fraud this device is, and how its a quack device. But if you find out who put that in there, youll find out that he says the same thing about a lot of other things that work. Then if you go and watch the man, youll find that the checks that he cashes at the bank are from large pharmaceutical companies and from the government at times. DW: Right. KC: So, what name are they going to put into the computer for that device? PP: Im not going to say that. Im not interested in thousands of people associating that and being able to show their friends that Im a fraud. Anybody who wants to know if its a fraud, come to me. Ill give you the closest doctor, and you can go there and ask the doctor whether his 3, 5, 7, 10,000 patients that went there, and two days later walked out without their problem, think that its a fraud. Now, I know its not 100% placebo because placebos only work 50% of the time. And even though the medical people - the AMA - says their doctors only get 5% of their clinical diagnoses correct... If they only get, you know, 5% or 6% now this year, of their clinical diagnoses correct, what do you think they get correct with the treatment? You know why they say practicing medicine. Or on the other hand, watch the TV show House, and in each incidence they tried five, or six, or seven treatments, almost killing the patient each time, and then find out what the solution is. You know, hes supposed to be the best diagnostician in the world, you know, on television. But its very true to life. It comes out of Canada. Theyre a lot more frank there. And, you know, you get the picture of practicing medicine. They dont have an idea. They dont have a way to have an idea. So Im now ready, after 28 years of having this device out there and about somewhere between, oh, probably $1.2 to $4 million, or maybe more, patient visits behind it; all computerized. In the medical terminology, its anecdotal because the patient cant tell you if theyre well or they dont have the symptom any longer thats illegal. But, Im now ready to go up against any one of them, because I can prove that my diagnoses with this type of machine are absolutely correct, because when they go look with conventional diagnostic tools and equipment, Ill see the problem as much as 20 years before it manifests itself in the body where common medical things can test it. How can I prove that? Well, Ill wait 20 years and prove it. Thats what weve done. Thats why I have 27 years of testing done on it. Thats why I have people that came and thought it was a fraud and didnt accept the medication, but I watched them over a period of time and saw them eventually die of what I told them they would die from. So I now have enough evidence. Im ready to go and do that, except Im not going to do that because I dont have any desire to be assassinated. I have people that have more testicles than I have that are willing to do it... pardon my 10 years in the Marine Corps. DW: You said theres a lot of clones of this technology out there, people have stolen it from you and... PP: They didnt steal it from me. They stole it from other people. I gave it away, so they couldnt steal it from me. If theyd come to me, Id have given it to them. DW: Is it variable in terms of how well they work, like... PP: Oh, absolutely. The first thing I did was... in my instrument, when you touch the body, in the beginning, the person doesnt know where the points are, so I put a Point Locator. And the Point Locator made a tone, which almost everybody likened it to the sound of a cow that was dying. [laughter] Okay? So, when I gave the people how to build this thing, they built it, and everybody says: Oh, that sounds like a cow dying, so they changed the tone. They eliminated 80% of the effectiveness of the machine, because the tone carried a lot of information, that, if the doctor had only persisted with it for a month, he could then hear that tone and he could cut down diagnosis time from 35 to 40 minutes to 2 to 3 minutes. DW: Wow. PP: It just became natural. Hed: Oh, I know what that means. I know what that tone means. Let me try this, let me try that. He can dial up on the machine now some 850,000 different substances that are in this world. All the medications of every medical system known; all the herbals of every herbal system known; all the magic healing potions of every magic healing potion system known; all the chemicals that are out there that are man-made; all the chemicals that you find in nature; all the vitamins; all the minerals; all the pharmaceuticals in the homeopathic pharmacopeia, and in the allopathic pharmacopeia. Everythings there. So, you can do it; the machine will help you sort those out and find out exactly what will alleviate the problem. And many times youll find something that will alleviate a problem in the, for example, the small intestine, but find that itll aggravate the neural system. So you say: Oh, well there must be another medication thatll work and not counteract something here. So you can go back and find that particular medication. Now you know what to give. Now, you can ask it: Okay, if Im going to give this, how much should I give? Itll tell you an exact amount. And like everything in nature, theres a bell curve produced, a curve that looks like a bell, and you want that medication thats right at the peak of the bell curve. You want just that amount thatll produce that reaction and BANG you give it. Many times when we give the medications to a patient, theyll bounce up and down like they were at Disneyland on Mr. Toads Wild Ride, and theyll say: Ah, ah, Ive had that pain for 20 years and now its gone. Did we heal him? No. Did we cure them? No. Why do I say: No? Because its against the law. Do they believe they were healed? Yes. Did they believe they were cured? Yes. What makes the difference? DW: One thing that I think is really important is, if this video is out there online, theres going to be a lot of people that want to claim that they have this technology to profit from it. PP: Oh, absolutely. DW: And it may not be the one youre actually talking about. PP: Absolutely. DW: How do we prevent against that? Is there any search term we can give people on Google? PP: I dont know that we can prevent against it. DW: Or doctors that are actually using the right one? Or... PP: The problem is that the first, about 6000 doctors I trained, and they had machines that moo-ed like a cow and it was really good, and after that it went downhill. So, again, Im building a laboratory and a factory where I will produce these, and instead of having to do, like you have to do today, pay between $12 and $50,000 dollars for one of the machines... DW: Oh. PP: Ive got one thats built in a fountain pen and well probably sell it for around $99. DW: Wow. BR: But there are similar healing modalities in existence, which is... PP: Oh, there are some that work beautifully.
BR: Radionics, you know. Go on... PP: Well, yeah. There are radionics machines that... BR: Im not saying its the same. Im just saying its something that works... PP: Yeah, it works very well.
BR: ...in the informational field. PP: Oh, it works very well, and it works with, on... Exactly right. It works through the informational field. DW: Have you heard of the SCANAR, the Russian SCANAR? PP: Ive definitely heard of the SCANAR, having spent about, oh, eight months with the people doing it... DW: Really? PP: ...and working together with them. Theres another machine for pain. Its called the Acuscope, which was brought to this country by Tony Nebrinski who was the KGB man in this country looking for medical technology to send home to Russia. DW: Theres a guy named Dr. Hartmut Muller who built this LED thing that you put on your skin. Is that another one that you think works? PP: No. DW: It doesnt work? PP: No, I didnt say that. DW: Oh. PP: I said there are things that work a lot better. Thats what I meant to say. DW: Okay. But people can also, as you said, massage these points on their hands. PP: The best medical machine I ever invented were these two little things we call Acu-Combs [Ed note: did a search and did not find this device, so the correct spelling of this is unknown.] that you just rub your points with and get well. DW: Is there a way people could build those on their own? PP: They probably could as soon as they saw one, but its easier and cheaper to buy one from me, because I paid thousands of dollars for the tooling and they stamp them out like... DW: Great. PP: ...shells coming out of a machine gun, and they put em in a tumbler and tumble them, and they actually have electric material that we invented to actually do the charging. Its interesting in that you can take one of the units and do it. By the way, you can find out how youll react to any food. One of the best things is that anything that goes in the body, you say: How do my organs react to that? Theres a reason that the highest-paid doctor is the anesthesiologist. Its because he has to pay the most insurance. And I think... I may be wrong. Youd have to check what it is these days, but when I was working on it, two out of every 100 people were killed by the anesthetic. BR: Thats about right. [overtalk] PP: This thing will tell you exactly because this finger and the distal side of the middle finger tells you about food absorption here, and allergy here. It will tell you whether you have an allergic dispensation toward that medicine. That anesthetic, itll tell you how your body will react to it. KC: How does it tell you? PP: By making an indication. Theres an indication on a meter and on a chart. When you learn how to read the meter and learn how to read the chart, which can be taught in approximately one minute, you can tell whether youre going to have an allergic reaction or not. Another thing we found was, out of a major universitys animal husbandry department, we found that there are 33 substances that all humans and all animals are allergic to. Most of them are phenolic compounds that have a 6-sided benzene ring in the molecule, and a couple are hormones, and a couple are proteins. We found out that we can measure here and we can find out exactly if you have allergies, exactly what youre allergic to. Then we can take that material and prepare it homeopathically and give you a couple drops under the tongue and that allergy will disappear entirely. Then, after a period of time, it may come back, and well find that you need a homeopathic remedy of a different, what they call potency or strength, and then you take that. Sometimes it takes you three or four days to chase this thing around and find out exactly what you need, but eventually youll get to an end point, and you wont have that allergy. As far as I know, and weve tested people now for 28 years, nobodys ever had an allergy come back. DW: Wow. PP: And were dealing strictly with an informational system here that modern science refuses to do. But it doesnt seem to make much difference to those people who had allergies and dont, that modern science doesnt like it. It doesnt fit their paradigm, which is wrong.
BR: I just want to say, on camera here, that what we are very clear about, having spent quite some time talking with you, that youre not trying to get rich through any of this. You want to make this technology available. PP: No, I dont. No, I have no need to make any money. The only reason I want to build the things is so theyre built right, and they moo like a cow [laughter] a dying cow. Because that gives it... that lets the doctor do the treatment for much less, or the diagnoses for much less money. And remember, the doctor only uses this to help him in making his diagnoses. The diagnoses cant be made by a machine, only made by a doctor. BR: Yeah. PP: Thats why in the beginning, we only sold them to card-carrying AMA, card-carrying MDs. Then we sold a few to chiropractors. We sold a few of them to osteopaths, a few of them to naturopaths. Then, the first person to have one that was a veterinarian was the Veterinary Commissioner for the State of Nevada, and she started using them. Then we have now... I quit keeping track when I started trying to keep in front of these people and keep them out of trouble for using them. And weve not had any trouble in using them, because we kept them out of trouble. Anyway, at the time all this was maybe 18 years ago there were about 350 veterinarians using them and they were working perfectly. They could find out what problems animals had, and how to solve the problem.
BR: Folks, were coming to the end of our third hour and there may be a number of other topics which we want to touch on before, well, while we have the opportunity. I know there are a number of other topics. Ive had my share of the cherry. David, is there more things youd like to pick up on? I know that Kerrys got some questions too. DW: Yeah. Im just sensitive to all the emails that are going to be coming in. People are going to want to know how to buy these little plates, so if you say you can machine them, once youre ready to do that, can you give us the information? PP: If I had orders, I could probably ship within two weeks. DW: Okay. PP: I cant tell you what they cost. I know that one of the plates out of necessity needs to be copper. I know that one of the plates, the factory that used to make my electric material has gone out of business. DW: Hm. PP: So, either Ill have to make it or find a factory that does it. But we have tooling that fits in a machine called the Amada Punch Press that punches it out faster than you can even see, and then it just has to be tumbled in the right combination of things to make it smooth and easy to handle, so it doesnt have sharp edges on it. DW: But its not that expensive, is the bottom line. PP: Its not really that expensive. The copper in it now costs about $7.00 or $8.00 dollars for the copper plate, and probably much the same for the electric plate. Then we have to stamp it and process it. It comes normally in a little carrying case with a separation between the two. DW: Okay. PP: And a little set of cards that you can fold out that shows all the points on the hand, all the points on the feet. So there are pressure points where there are things that you deal with; indigestion and headaches and that kind of thing. DW: Well you have your first order right now. PP: [laughs] Yeah. Ive taken them to, oh, I dont know, maybe a couple hundred health fairs and Psychotronic Association meetings, the Global Science Congress and Tesla Society meetings and dowsing meetings and so forth, and Ive never taken them... I started with taking 20, and then Id take 50, and then Id take 100, and Ive never found the time that I didnt sell out before noon... DW: Right. PP: ...on the first day. Once I sell three or four, then everybody is... people cant put it down. So theyre standing there doing it, people [saying]: Well, whered you get that? What does that do? And the guy is: Here, let me try it. No. I dont have a shoelace. Then Id start giving a shoelace with them so theyd get them back. So, anyway, people like the way it makes them feel, they like the way it makes their hands feel, and they determine by themselves without any help from the government that they actually do something for them that they like and so they buy them. DW: Hm. Well, yeah, I think its really important to note that the healing is within. We all have this power to heal ourselves. PP: Like I said, in any medical device that Ive ever done... And Ive also, by having the machine as a bio-feedback tool, I found a number of substances that do miraculous things for the body. DW: Such as? PP: Out of all those substances, and all the machines, the best thing I ever did was the plates; theyre not expensive. What I tell people is: If you think about this right, you can just throw the plates away... ...which brings up another device that Ill be putting out that looks like a cigarette pack thats a bad thing to use like a pack of playing cards, and maybe thats even bad to use. But its a little device that has a headband that you have a little electrode you soak with salt water in the front and the rear, and it... DW: Salt water? PP: Salt water, just regular salt water, table salt. You put that on and it makes a tone, and we give a little cassette tape that makes a tone, and you can learn to, with your brain, you can learn to match. Its like if I hum or whistle Yankee Doodle ten times, you can hum Yankee Doodle. And if I do Mary Had a Little Lamb, you can do Mary Had a Little Lamb. This makes a sound and you learn to generate that sound by holding your tongue right. Have you ever seen a watchmaker work? DW: The position of your tongue changes the tone? PP: No, no, thats what I didnt want to say. DW: Oh. PP: If you watch someone thats doing precision work, like an engraver or a watchmaker, they do it this way. [sticks his tongue out the side of his mouth] DW: Okay. PP: Yes, they have to hold their tongue in a certain way and it lets them do things. But you dont necessarily have to hold your tongue right, you learn how to hold your mind right. DW: So this gives off an even pitch? But the pitch is varying? PP: No. Its not an even pitch. Its a varying pitch. It sounds like whistling a tune. DW: Okay. PP: So you learn to make that tune by thinking right, and eventually youll put it on and if you do different things mentally, youll get different tones. So, you learn to hold those tones, so you get the tone that was on the little tape. And when you get to that point, you can then alter these things without the plates. You can just do it mentally. DW: This is going to make me sound stupid, but people in the audience are going to compare that the Monroe tapes, with the binaural synchronization in the ears. PP: Yeah. DW: Is there any relationship with those? PP: None whatsoever. DW: I didnt think so. Is this like an EKG, like its a brain wave? PP: No, no. DW: Okay. Whats making the tone? PP: An electrical field thats generated by the body. DW: So, why these two points then? [touching his forehead and center back of his head] PP: Because those are the ones that work. [laughter] DW: Okay. So, is it used only for healing? Or are there other... PP: My favorite thing to do with it is find somebody thats into brainwave analysis and brainwave work, and go have them implement me, and then play Yankee Doodle for them with my brain. They immediately say: Oops, the machine is broken. Weve got to fix it, because nobody can learn to do that. Sorry, I can teach anybody to play Yankee Doodle with their brain in two weeks. DW: But, I mean, are there... PP: And, once you learn to do Yankee Doodle, you can do Mary Had a Little Lamb in about ten minutes. DW: Lets say you have a guy that can move things with his mind; he has telekinesis. PP: Yeah. DW: And he makes a song on this thing. PP: He makes a song, and you buy the song from him, like buying an mp3 thing, and you make that song... chances are very good that youre going to run that little ball bearing around through the maze with your head. DW: Really? PP: Yeah. DW: Thats very interesting. PP: [speaking quietly] I can tell you that government agencies have bought those by the thousands. DW: How would you get an electrode on the back of your head? Isnt that going to go through your hair? PP: Well, surplus-wise, I bought about 10,000 little fold-out razors that are used to scrape hair off the body when a surgeon needs to sew it up. You just put a little shaving cream on it and scrape a little piece off and... DW: And theres a headband you wear? PP: Theres a headband you wear, and theres two little electrodes made out of a special metal, and they have a little cotton sock over them. You soak this; you take water and you put it in a little bowl, and you stir water and salt together until theres no more salt to dissolve, and you dip those in there and squeeze them out a little bit. Use a little wash cloth with some soap on it and wipe the grease off the area here [pointing to his forehead] and the grease off the area back here that youve balded. You put it on, and it works just fine. DW: Wow. How precise do you have to be in placement? Does it have to be right smack on? PP: No, within a couple inches. DW: Oh. PP: No, it doesnt go on the third eye. A lot of your people will ask that. It goes in a different spot. DW: Okay. PP: But its very easy to tell where it goes because you put it on and it isnt making... well call it brainwave noise. Thats not what it is, but then anything that isnt hooked directly to the brain isnt brainwave noise anyway.
BR: I have a 60-second question before this tape goes out. Why would the agencies be interested in stuff like this? PP: Oh, I dont know that I can say that.
BR: Okay. Well leave it to our imagination. PP: Leave it to your imagination.
BR: Okay.
PP: I can tell you that there were a lot of them bought at SRI. [Ed. note: Stanford Research Institute] BR: Uh-huh.
PP: And a lot of them were bought by...
KC: To teach remote influencing. [music begins to fade in] PP: I didnt say that. I didnt even hint that.
KC: I said that. PP: I wouldnt do that if I were you.
KC: Oh. PP: Not unless youd like a visit. You will have a visit if you mention it. And you wont like it. [fade out] Music plays over PPs voice saying: ...been involved with trying to build flying saucers, you usually found with flying saucers, if you look at most of the movies, there always seems to be a robot involved with it...
Back to Contents
