# Project Aquarius - Executive Correspondence/Executive Briefing

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_mj12_3n.htm

from UMF Website
The following is a transcript of information found in a document which was released by researcher L. M. Graham.
Copies of the original document can be obtained from PEA Research., Milpitas, CA 95035.
Along with other documentation concerning secret technologies allegedly possessed and utilized by secret governmental organizations as well as documentation and information on a possible interaction between deep government groups and a race of small non-human entities commonly known as the 'Greys'.
Areas in the document where (XXXXXX) appears indicates areas where the writing in the duplicate copies obtained by PEA and other groups is too faint to be readable.
.
1. (TS/ORCON) (PROWORD):
XXXXXX Contains 16 volumes of documented information collected from the beginning of the United States' Investigation of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) and Identified Alien Crafts (IAC). The Project was originally established in 1953, by order of President Eisenhower, under control of XXXXXX and MJ12. In 1960, the Project's name was changed from Project XXXXXX to Project Aquarius. The Project was funded by XXXXXX confidential funds (non-appropriated).
The Project XXX(for 1 full line)XXX Dec 1969 after Project Blue Book was closed. The purpose of Project Aquarius was to collect all scientific, technological, medical and intelligence information from UFO/IAC sightings and contacts with alien life forms. This orderly file of collected information has been used to advance the United States' Space Program. (TS/ORCON) The preceding briefing is an historical account of the United States Government's investigation of Aerial Phenomena, Recovered Alien Aircraft, and contacts with extraterrestrial Life Forms.
2. (TS/ORCON) PROJECT SIGMA: (PROWORD): AQUARIUS
Originally established as part of Project XXXXXX in 1954. Became a separate project in 1976. It's mission was to establish communication with Aliens. This Project met with positive success (sic) when in 1959, the United States established primitive communications with the Aliens.
On April 25, 1964, a USAF intelligence officer met two aliens at a pre-arranged location in the desert in New Mexico. The contact lasted for approximately three hours. XXX(for over half a line)XXX the Air Force officer managed to exchange basic information with the two Aliens (Atch 7). This project is continuing at an Air Force base in New Mexico. (OPR): XXXXXX
3. (TS/ORCON) PROJECT SNOWBIRD: (PROWORD): XXXXXX
Originally established in 1972. Its mission was to test fly a recovered Alien aircraft. This project is continuing in Nevada. XXXXXX
4. (TS/ORCON) PROJECT XXXXXX XXXXXX
Originally established in 1968. Its mission was to evaluate all UFOXXXXXX information pertaining to space technology. PROJECT POUNCE continues XXXXXX XXXXXX
According to John Lear, William Cooper, and several other researchers the U.S. government may have made a 'pact' with a non-human race as early as 1933. According to some this 'race' is not human as we know it, yet it claims to have it's origin on earth several thousands of years ago.
Some sources allege that this predatory race is of a neo-saurian nature.
This has led others to suggest that the dinosaurs which ruled the surface of the earth in prehistoric times may not have become entirely extinct as is commonly believed, but that certain of the more intelligent and biped-hominoid mutations of that race developed a form of intellectual thought equal to or surpassing that of the human race, and then possibly went into hiding.
For instance, one branch or mutation of the supposedly extinct sauroid race, Stenonychosaurus, was according to paleontologists remarkably hominoid in appearance, being 3 1/2 to 4 1/4 ft. in height with possibly greyish-green skin and three-digit clawed fingers with a partially-opposable 'thumb'. The opposable thumb and intellectual capacity is the only thing preventing members of the animal kingdom from challenging the human race as the masters of planet earth.
For instance the ape kingdom possesses opposable thumbs yet it does not possess the intellectual capacity to use them as humans do. The dolphins possess intellects nearing that of humans but do not possess opposable thumbs or even limbs necessary to invent, etc. Could their be an 'animal' which possesses both of these characteristics?
The cranial capacity of Stenonychosaurus was nearly twice the size of that of human beings, indicating a large brain and possibly advanced though not necessarily benevolent intellect. According to researchers such as Brad Steiger, Val Valerian, TAL LeVesque and others this may actually be the same type of entity or entities most commonly described in 'UFO' encounters, as well as the same type of creatures depicted in early 1992 in the nationally viewed CBS presentation 'INTRUDERS'.
According to Lear and others the government may have established a 'treaty' with this race, which they later learned to their horror was extremely malevolent in nature and were merely using the 'treaties' as a means to buy time while they methodically establish certain controls upon the human race, with the ultimate goal of an absolute domination. It is also alleged by certain deep-level intelligence agents that the Illuminati, or the 'Cult of the Serpent', is willfully working hand-in-claw with this infernal race which has promised them part of the action once the 'New World Order' is established. The Illuminati is allegedly in it for the power and 'technology' which this non-human race is supposed to give them in exchange for their cooperation.
According to John Lear and others, many of the deep underground bases such as those below Dulce, New Mexico and Pine Gap, Australia are actually 'joint' areas where the technology exchanges have been carried out, as well as battles between the humans and 'grays' sparked by disagreements, etc. Could the Illuminati's plans for world domination be backed by an 'alien' vanguard?
One unusual point that the following article makes is the apparent connection between the Illuminati's 'Club of Rome' and the so-called 'Greys'. One might ask themselves: If an alien species desired to establish control over a civilization, would they attempt an outright and immediate invasion and destruction of all resistance or would they instead attempt to manipulate situations behind the scenes in order to turn the inhabitants of the 'target' environment against each other, and decimate the population to the point that resistance would be minimal?
The 'logical' choice, presuming that the 'aliens' are heartless vermin, would be the latter, and there is much evidence that the 'Club of Rome' has 'sold out' the human race to such alien powers in exchange for certain promises, and that this sold-out power group is carrying out an agenda of MASS GENOCIDE against the human race as a whole, in obedience to their draconian masters. If such an inhuman and alien race exists, then these genocidal 'policies' which the Illuminati-Club of Rome is carrying out no doubt originated from 'them'.
As William Cooper has stated elsewhere, whether the 'aliens' exist or not makes no difference, since the 'idea' of the existence of a non-human alien race is part and parcel of the Illuminati's one-world totalitarian plans. This has been confirmed by several researchers. With this introduction, the activities taking place at such underground installations as the Pine Gap Facility may be better understood. From Dr. Jean Francois Gille, who moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico from France, comes a translation of a French document that exposes the relationship between several factors in the matrix of world affairs.
The article, titled - 'PINE GAP BASE: WORLD CONTEXT', was written by Lucien Cometta and later translated into English by Dr. John Gille:
"In order to understand the case of the Pine Gap US base (near Alice Springs, Australia) better, I feel compelled to give some explanations beforehand. I hope these explanations will help to increase the general awareness of the extraordinary importance that facility has for mankind as a whole. "The majority of people, all over the world, are not lingering in doubt as to whether UFOs and ETs are real. They know they are real. Here in early 1989, no one questions their existence. The case for UFOs and ETs aroused passions, controversies and grandstanding for many years. Some of it has not been quite rational. The matter being relatively settled, public opinions should cool down. It is with a serene and clear mind that we ought to be thinking of our future relationship with the peoples from space. However, the public mind is not at peace. It vaguely feels that the governments are hiding "something real big", and it wonders where our leaders are going to lead mankind. "During the process of research and study of UFOs and aliens, researchers who do not take the explanations of the scientific establishment at face value have discovered unsettling facts; these facts have started the lifting off (of) the lid of the coverup. The value and prestige of their sources of information do not leave any doubt about the truthfulness of these reports; the main outlines are summarized below. PINE GAP "The United States has three major bases in Australia. One is in South Australia (Nurranger, near Woomera, T.N.), another in New South Wales, and the third (and by far the largest) is located within about 230 km (143 miles) of the geographical center of the continent, not far to the west of Alice Springs (Northern Territory), at the foothills of the southern slopes of the MacDonnell Range. This base is completely underground, with barely visible entrances to the surface. "This 'Top Secret' base is entirely financed by the United States Government, and is officially known as the Joint Defense Space Research Facility. "When the JDSRF was first initiated, its aim was scientific research for the supposed development of a space defense technology. It is now known that since its inception, its primary purpose was research into electromagnetic propulsion. "What exactly is Pine Gap? As strange as it may seem, even Australian Federal Parliament members do not know. Among the Cabinet members, only a small number of 'initiates' have a vague idea of what this is all about. The only information source available to the public is the cross-checking done by private researchers such as Jimmy Guieu, following statements made by the United States or Australian magazines (always very short and terse paragraphs), and anything the locals may notice. "It is said that under Pine Gap is the deepest drilling hole in Australia - about 5 miles (more than 8,000 meters). Such a hole is likely used as an underground antenna able to recharge the batteries of submarines in the Pacific and Indian Ocean through ELF broadcasts. Such a gigantic antenna could be used to generate the gigantic stationary wave around the Earth. "Some say that Pine Gap has an enormous nuclear generator to supply energy to a new type of transceiver. It seems too that there is a high-powered, high-voltage plasma accelerator which may be put to use to transmit electric current, or even to produce a 'death-ray', or quite simply to feed a plasma gun. All this is not as incredible as it sounds: it is now known that the US base of West Cape, near Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia (Harold E. Holt USN Communication Station), has an older type of the transceiver used at Pine Gap which is used to send electric current to submerged US submarines who trail a wire antenna. It is known that electric currents transmitted in this way are referred to as plasmo-dynamic cells. "Several times, locals have seen WHITE DISKS about 30' in diameter in the process of being unloaded from large US cargo planes at the airports serving Pine Gap. Those disks had the USAF emblem on them. It seems likely that disks are assembled and based at Pine Gap. The number of disks seen at night leaves no doubt in anyones mind. An amazing quantity of furniture has been delivered by plane from the United States. The locals also say that an enormous amount of food is stocked in warehouses of what could well be a true multi-leveled underground city. "On the other hand, Pine Gap is well known as one of the most important control centers for spy satellites which circle the globe. An article published in late 1973 claimed that the Pine Gap installation, along with its sister installation in Guam, were used to control the photographic missions of the large American satellites in orbit above the Earth. "Pine Gap has enormous computers which are connected to their American and Australian central counterparts, which collect all the information secured in these countries, not only about finance and technology, but on every aspect of the life of the average citizen. Those computers at Pine Gap are also evidently connected to similar mainframes in Guam, in Krugersdorp South Africa, and at the Amundsen-Scott US base at the South Pole. "Let us say, incidentally, that the employees (more than 1200) of the US base in South Africa all claim to be members of the US consular mission in that country. It may be worthy of note that the Amundsen-Scott base at the South Pole is located on a sensitive magnetic spot of our planet, that it holds exactly the same assets as Pine Gap, and that all the information about most of the average citizens of Western Europe is stored there in memory banks tens of meters under the icepack. "A statement made by the Australian premier about 1987, assuring that 'France must disappear from the Pacific, from the Kerguelen Ridge, and from Antarctica' sheds light on the importance of this polar base for the Anglo-Saxon world. "The most disquieting fact about Pine Gap may be that the employees working on the base, and especially those earmarked for duty on electromagnetic propulsion projects, have undergone brainwashing and even implantation of intracranial devices. Those employees have turned into unconditional slaves of their master, whoever he is. Rather scary, isn't it? "The true point of the brainwashing of those individuals, along with the ruthless attempts to implement the coverup of really advanced military technology, will become clear at the end of this article. "For me, it all began with the construction of the new Parliament building in Canberra, which cost billions of dollars. Australia has only 18 million inhabitants, yet it apparently treated itself to a building far beyond its means...supposedly to accommodate its government even if the old Parliament building was perfectly fine. "This new building, enormous, immense and magnificent would easily fit the needs of the USSR or of the United States, which both have hundreds of millions of citizens to rule. That building puzzled me, and I started to talk about it until the day I bumped into an Englishman who told me that the Australian premier, Bob Hawk, was a Rhodes scholar, and as such he worked toward the setting up of a One World Government, and that this new Parliament building likely had something to do with it. "Sometime after, I stumbled on a pamphlet published by the Human Rights Organization, which talked about a group of about a hundred people well-placed in high finance, politics, the judiciary branch and big business. This group was called the 'Club of ROME'. According to this pamphlet, the CLUB OF ROME was pledged to a consortium which controls all international finance. A number of other groups similar to the CLUB OF ROME are equally pledged to that finance consortium, AND ARE INFILTRATING THE VARIOUS POLITICAL AND RELIGIOUS GROUPS WITH THE INTENTION TO MAKE PROGRESS TOWARD THE INSTITUTION OF A WORLD DICTATORSHIP. "The whole thing looked a little bit too preposterous to be true, it seemed to me. Nevertheless, a friend of mine gave me an audio cassette taped at a lecture given by Peter Sawyer, a former high-ranking Australian civil servant, which exposed a certain number of facts he had noticed while in office. He talked, in particular, of a telephone exchange in Canberra called 'Deacon Center'. This exchange, built in concrete with 4 (ft. ?) thick walls, cost hundreds of millions of dollars. It is outfitted with numerous computers, arrayed on four levels. When he tried to find out why such equipment was needed in a country of only 18 million, he discovered that those computers were connected to all the banks, to every post office, to all telephones, and to all of the police stations and customs houses; to every arrival and departure desk for air or sea travellers; and also and above all, to the other data centers collecting data on private citizens... in the United States as well as in Europe. "That facility on Deacon street is therefore a Center where all the data pertaining to every citizen of the Western World end up being stored. All financial, economic, political and military information, as well as the information on every inhabitant of those countries. As a matter of course, all people living in Australia are put on file, kept up with and labelled. "Peter Sawyer discovered also that the president of the ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION came for a lengthy stay in Australia to supervise in person the construction of 20 luxury residences in Canberra (the Australian government footed the bill), in the wonderful setting of a National Park, where, legally, nobody is allowed to build. "The investigations lead by Sawyer exposed, first, that the new Parliament building is meant to accommodate the world government-to-be; and, second, that the 20 luxury residences will be allocated to the different foreign members of that government... Why choose Canberra as the headquarters of the new world government? Simply because Australia is a peaceful country, with very few natives likely to turn rebellious, and, above all, it's an English speaking country. No other English speaking country can offer the safety Australia will provide at the time of the taking over by the World Government. In America and Europe, uprisings are more than likely, and South America not only is not English-speaking, but its fondness for revolutions and social disturbances is well known. "Australia is thus the ideal place for such an undertaking. How is the advent of a World Government possible in the near future? It is relatively easy, as we will explain. "First, who are those 'internationalists' who want to take over the planet? THE ONES WHO WANT TO SET UP A WORLD GOVERNMENT ARE 15 FAMILIES OR SO, WHO ALREADY GOVERN ALL OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE AND KEEP A TIGHT LEASH ON MOST GOVERNMENTS THROUGH THE ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF THEIR FINANCES AND THEIR DOMESTIC ECONOMY. These finance moguls devised their plan after World War I, and have been working since on an insidious undermining process aimed at economic destabilization all over the West. "If those financiers are obviously labeled 'capitalists', it is a very deceptive label, though, for, in fact, they never stopped to pull the strings of the progressive parties, as well as those of the conservative parties. Their idea is logical, and lay, quite simply, in the destabilization of the countries of the West on the political, economic and religious levels. IT MAY BE SURPRISING TO SOME THAT THESE 'INNOVATORS' HAD INFILTRATED THE TOP LEVELS OF THE MAIN RELIGIOUS ESTABLISHMENTS, ONLY A SMALL NUMBER OF YEARS WAS NEEDED TO MAKE THEM VIRTUALLY POWERLESS... "Economic destabilization is implemented through a slower but most efficient process. This process (already under way) will cause the entire financial system of the West to collapse. The people involved are the same people who cause the price of oil to go up and then, after convincing European neighbors to agree to these price rises, provide that the yield coming from the price rises will be paid to the 'International Reserve Bank', which is entirely at their command. The Reserve Bank hands the money over to a 'holding bank' who lavishly loans the money to Third World countries for usurious rates of interest. "The holding bank receives the interest paid by the underdeveloped countries, then puts it into another 'holding bank' which, in turn, invests the huge quantity of money on behalf of the Arabs. "Those investments are made into thriving large businesses. In the meantime, only small interests are sent to Arab countries. "Those who engineered the plan were perfectly aware that the leaders of the underdeveloped countries would be tempted to pocket a good part of the received money. "The IRB will then tell the Arab countries that the holding bank investments have turned out badly, all their assets had vanished and that no interest will be paid any more. The Arab countries will then have no choice but to put all the securities they own on the market, as well as quite an amount of property bought by the second holding bank. A good part of these possessions will then be frozen, because they will have been bought with the aid of not entirely repaid loans, and they will be part of the assets of the first holding bank, gone bankrupt. The incredible quantity of shares put on the market at the same time will cause a stock market crash of such magnitude that all the national economies of the West will collapse at the same time. "The planet will find itself in a desperate predicament. Cash will not be worth a damn, and the risks of a global confrontation (planned!) will be high. ENTER PINE GAP "At this point, the usefulness of bases like Pine Gap will become obvious. If a Global confrontation is going to break out, those bases will serve as a place of safety for the politicians and their staff, as well as the international financiers, their family and friends. "If no confrontation breaks out, the financiers will adapt a 'saintly' attitude AND OFFER SUBSTITUTION OF ALL CURRENCIES BY PLASTIC CARDS, ENSURING 'TRUE EQUALITY' FOR ALL; THE ABOLITION OF ALL OWNERSHIP RIGHTS; and the setting up of a World Government that will 'ensure peace'."The masses (consciousness as a group) will be convinced that it is necessary to ensure Peace and Social Justice by any means, including force. THE POTENTIAL ACHIEVED THROUGH THE EQUIPMENT OF THE UNDERGROUND BASES WILL MAKE POSSIBLE THE DISAPPEARANCE WITHOUT A TRACE OF THOSE WHO DO NOT CONFORM AND THOSE WHO 'HINDER THE HAPPINESS OF THE PEOPLE'. Also, it will ensure the swift crushing of any possible uprising. IT MAY ALSO HAPPEN THAT OUR NEW 'MASTERS' WILL END UP TELLING THE PEOPLE THAT THEY HAVE THE ALIENS' SUPPORT, AND THAT WE (ARE) AT THE 'EVE OF THE MILLENNIUM, A GOLDEN AGE'...... IT WILL BE THE WORST DICTATORSHIP EVER KNOWN TO MANKIND. "......IT IS QUITE CERTAIN THAT OTHER BASES HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSEWHERE IN THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE. IT MAY EVEN BE THAT THE US BASES OCCUPIED BY THE GREYS, IN THE US MAINLAND, ARE OF THE SAME TYPE. ONE RUMOR HOLDS THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GREYS IS FOUND IN EACH OF THE UNDERGROUND US BASES IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE. "None of the above has anything to do with science fiction. All of what I said in this text is true, and doesn't give a very rosy picture of the future."
"In order to understand the case of the Pine Gap US base (near Alice Springs, Australia) better, I feel compelled to give some explanations beforehand. I hope these explanations will help to increase the general awareness of the extraordinary importance that facility has for mankind as a whole.
"The majority of people, all over the world, are not lingering in doubt as to whether UFOs and ETs are real. They know they are real. Here in early 1989, no one questions their existence. The case for UFOs and ETs aroused passions, controversies and grandstanding for many years. Some of it has not been quite rational. The matter being relatively settled, public opinions should cool down. It is with a serene and clear mind that we ought to be thinking of our future relationship with the peoples from space. However, the public mind is not at peace. It vaguely feels that the governments are hiding "something real big", and it wonders where our leaders are going to lead mankind.
"During the process of research and study of UFOs and aliens, researchers who do not take the explanations of the scientific establishment at face value have discovered unsettling facts; these facts have started the lifting off (of) the lid of the coverup. The value and prestige of their sources of information do not leave any doubt about the truthfulness of these reports; the main outlines are summarized below.
PINE GAP "The United States has three major bases in Australia. One is in South Australia (Nurranger, near Woomera, T.N.), another in New South Wales, and the third (and by far the largest) is located within about 230 km (143 miles) of the geographical center of the continent, not far to the west of Alice Springs (Northern Territory), at the foothills of the southern slopes of the MacDonnell Range. This base is completely underground, with barely visible entrances to the surface. "This 'Top Secret' base is entirely financed by the United States Government, and is officially known as the Joint Defense Space Research Facility. "When the JDSRF was first initiated, its aim was scientific research for the supposed development of a space defense technology. It is now known that since its inception, its primary purpose was research into electromagnetic propulsion. "What exactly is Pine Gap? As strange as it may seem, even Australian Federal Parliament members do not know. Among the Cabinet members, only a small number of 'initiates' have a vague idea of what this is all about. The only information source available to the public is the cross-checking done by private researchers such as Jimmy Guieu, following statements made by the United States or Australian magazines (always very short and terse paragraphs), and anything the locals may notice. "It is said that under Pine Gap is the deepest drilling hole in Australia - about 5 miles (more than 8,000 meters). Such a hole is likely used as an underground antenna able to recharge the batteries of submarines in the Pacific and Indian Ocean through ELF broadcasts. Such a gigantic antenna could be used to generate the gigantic stationary wave around the Earth. "Some say that Pine Gap has an enormous nuclear generator to supply energy to a new type of transceiver. It seems too that there is a high-powered, high-voltage plasma accelerator which may be put to use to transmit electric current, or even to produce a 'death-ray', or quite simply to feed a plasma gun. All this is not as incredible as it sounds: it is now known that the US base of West Cape, near Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia (Harold E. Holt USN Communication Station), has an older type of the transceiver used at Pine Gap which is used to send electric current to submerged US submarines who trail a wire antenna. It is known that electric currents transmitted in this way are referred to as plasmo-dynamic cells. "Several times, locals have seen WHITE DISKS about 30' in diameter in the process of being unloaded from large US cargo planes at the airports serving Pine Gap. Those disks had the USAF emblem on them. It seems likely that disks are assembled and based at Pine Gap. The number of disks seen at night leaves no doubt in anyones mind. An amazing quantity of furniture has been delivered by plane from the United States. The locals also say that an enormous amount of food is stocked in warehouses of what could well be a true multi-leveled underground city. "On the other hand, Pine Gap is well known as one of the most important control centers for spy satellites which circle the globe. An article published in late 1973 claimed that the Pine Gap installation, along with its sister installation in Guam, were used to control the photographic missions of the large American satellites in orbit above the Earth. "Pine Gap has enormous computers which are connected to their American and Australian central counterparts, which collect all the information secured in these countries, not only about finance and technology, but on every aspect of the life of the average citizen. Those computers at Pine Gap are also evidently connected to similar mainframes in Guam, in Krugersdorp South Africa, and at the Amundsen-Scott US base at the South Pole. "Let us say, incidentally, that the employees (more than 1200) of the US base in South Africa all claim to be members of the US consular mission in that country. It may be worthy of note that the Amundsen-Scott base at the South Pole is located on a sensitive magnetic spot of our planet, that it holds exactly the same assets as Pine Gap, and that all the information about most of the average citizens of Western Europe is stored there in memory banks tens of meters under the icepack. "A statement made by the Australian premier about 1987, assuring that 'France must disappear from the Pacific, from the Kerguelen Ridge, and from Antarctica' sheds light on the importance of this polar base for the Anglo-Saxon world. "The most disquieting fact about Pine Gap may be that the employees working on the base, and especially those earmarked for duty on electromagnetic propulsion projects, have undergone brainwashing and even implantation of intracranial devices. Those employees have turned into unconditional slaves of their master, whoever he is. Rather scary, isn't it? "The true point of the brainwashing of those individuals, along with the ruthless attempts to implement the coverup of really advanced military technology, will become clear at the end of this article. "For me, it all began with the construction of the new Parliament building in Canberra, which cost billions of dollars. Australia has only 18 million inhabitants, yet it apparently treated itself to a building far beyond its means...supposedly to accommodate its government even if the old Parliament building was perfectly fine. "This new building, enormous, immense and magnificent would easily fit the needs of the USSR or of the United States, which both have hundreds of millions of citizens to rule. That building puzzled me, and I started to talk about it until the day I bumped into an Englishman who told me that the Australian premier, Bob Hawk, was a Rhodes scholar, and as such he worked toward the setting up of a One World Government, and that this new Parliament building likely had something to do with it. "Sometime after, I stumbled on a pamphlet published by the Human Rights Organization, which talked about a group of about a hundred people well-placed in high finance, politics, the judiciary branch and big business. This group was called the 'Club of ROME'. According to this pamphlet, the CLUB OF ROME was pledged to a consortium which controls all international finance.
A number of other groups similar to the CLUB OF ROME are equally pledged to that finance consortium, AND ARE INFILTRATING THE VARIOUS POLITICAL AND RELIGIOUS GROUPS WITH THE INTENTION TO MAKE PROGRESS TOWARD THE INSTITUTION OF A WORLD DICTATORSHIP. "The whole thing looked a little bit too preposterous to be true, it seemed to me. Nevertheless, a friend of mine gave me an audio cassette taped at a lecture given by Peter Sawyer, a former high-ranking Australian civil servant, which exposed a certain number of facts he had noticed while in office. He talked, in particular, of a telephone exchange in Canberra called 'Deacon Center'.
This exchange, built in concrete with 4 (ft. ?) thick walls, cost hundreds of millions of dollars. It is outfitted with numerous computers, arrayed on four levels. When he tried to find out why such equipment was needed in a country of only 18 million, he discovered that those computers were connected to all the banks, to every post office, to all telephones, and to all of the police stations and customs houses; to every arrival and departure desk for air or sea travellers; and also and above all, to the other data centers collecting data on private citizens... in the United States as well as in Europe. "That facility on Deacon street is therefore a Center where all the data pertaining to every citizen of the Western World end up being stored. All financial, economic, political and military information, as well as the information on every inhabitant of those countries. As a matter of course, all people living in Australia are put on file, kept up with and labelled. "Peter Sawyer discovered also that the president of the ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION came for a lengthy stay in Australia to supervise in person the construction of 20 luxury residences in Canberra (the Australian government footed the bill), in the wonderful setting of a National Park, where, legally, nobody is allowed to build. "The investigations lead by Sawyer exposed, first, that the new Parliament building is meant to accommodate the world government-to-be; and, second, that the 20 luxury residences will be allocated to the different foreign members of that government... Why choose Canberra as the headquarters of the new world government?
Simply because Australia is a peaceful country, with very few natives likely to turn rebellious, and, above all, it's an English speaking country. No other English speaking country can offer the safety Australia will provide at the time of the taking over by the World Government. In America and Europe, uprisings are more than likely, and South America not only is not English-speaking, but its fondness for revolutions and social disturbances is well known. "Australia is thus the ideal place for such an undertaking. How is the advent of a World Government possible in the near future? It is relatively easy, as we will explain. "First, who are those 'internationalists' who want to take over the planet? THE ONES WHO WANT TO SET UP A WORLD GOVERNMENT ARE 15 FAMILIES OR SO, WHO ALREADY GOVERN ALL OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE AND KEEP A TIGHT LEASH ON MOST GOVERNMENTS THROUGH THE ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF THEIR FINANCES AND THEIR DOMESTIC ECONOMY. These finance moguls devised their plan after World War I, and have been working since on an insidious undermining process aimed at economic destabilization all over the West. "If those financiers are obviously labeled 'capitalists', it is a very deceptive label, though, for, in fact, they never stopped to pull the strings of the progressive parties, as well as those of the conservative parties. Their idea is logical, and lay, quite simply, in the destabilization of the countries of the West on the political, economic and religious levels. IT MAY BE SURPRISING TO SOME THAT THESE 'INNOVATORS' HAD INFILTRATED THE TOP LEVELS OF THE MAIN RELIGIOUS ESTABLISHMENTS, ONLY A SMALL NUMBER OF YEARS WAS NEEDED TO MAKE THEM VIRTUALLY POWERLESS... "Economic destabilization is implemented through a slower but most efficient process. This process (already under way) will cause the entire financial system of the West to collapse. The people involved are the same people who cause the price of oil to go up and then, after convincing European neighbors to agree to these price rises, provide that the yield coming from the price rises will be paid to the 'International Reserve Bank', which is entirely at their command. The Reserve Bank hands the money over to a 'holding bank' who lavishly loans the money to Third World countries for usurious rates of interest. "The holding bank receives the interest paid by the underdeveloped countries, then puts it into another 'holding bank' which, in turn, invests the huge quantity of money on behalf of the Arabs. "Those investments are made into thriving large businesses. In the meantime, only small interests are sent to Arab countries. "Those who engineered the plan were perfectly aware that the leaders of the underdeveloped countries would be tempted to pocket a good part of the received money. "The IRB will then tell the Arab countries that the holding bank investments have turned out badly, all their assets had vanished and that no interest will be paid any more. The Arab countries will then have no choice but to put all the securities they own on the market, as well as quite an amount of property bought by the second holding bank.
A good part of these possessions will then be frozen, because they will have been bought with the aid of not entirely repaid loans, and they will be part of the assets of the first holding bank, gone bankrupt. The incredible quantity of shares put on the market at the same time will cause a stock market crash of such magnitude that all the national economies of the West will collapse at the same time. "The planet will find itself in a desperate predicament. Cash will not be worth a damn, and the risks of a global confrontation (planned!) will be high. ENTER PINE GAP "At this point, the usefulness of bases like Pine Gap will become obvious. If a Global confrontation is going to break out, those bases will serve as a place of safety for the politicians and their staff, as well as the international financiers, their family and friends.
"If no confrontation breaks out, the financiers will adapt a 'saintly' attitude AND OFFER SUBSTITUTION OF ALL CURRENCIES BY PLASTIC CARDS, ENSURING 'TRUE EQUALITY' FOR ALL; THE ABOLITION OF ALL OWNERSHIP RIGHTS; and the setting up of a World Government that will 'ensure peace'."The masses (consciousness as a group) will be convinced that it is necessary to ensure Peace and Social Justice by any means, including force.
THE POTENTIAL ACHIEVED THROUGH THE EQUIPMENT OF THE UNDERGROUND BASES WILL MAKE POSSIBLE THE DISAPPEARANCE WITHOUT A TRACE OF THOSE WHO DO NOT CONFORM AND THOSE WHO 'HINDER THE HAPPINESS OF THE PEOPLE'.
Also, it will ensure the swift crushing of any possible uprising.
IT MAY ALSO HAPPEN THAT OUR NEW 'MASTERS' WILL END UP TELLING THE PEOPLE THAT THEY HAVE THE ALIENS' SUPPORT, AND THAT WE (ARE) AT THE 'EVE OF THE MILLENNIUM, A GOLDEN AGE'...... IT WILL BE THE WORST DICTATORSHIP EVER KNOWN TO MANKIND. "......IT IS QUITE CERTAIN THAT OTHER BASES HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSEWHERE IN THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE. IT MAY EVEN BE THAT THE US BASES OCCUPIED BY THE GREYS, IN THE US MAINLAND, ARE OF THE SAME TYPE. ONE RUMOR HOLDS THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GREYS IS FOUND IN EACH OF THE UNDERGROUND US BASES IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
IT MAY ALSO HAPPEN THAT OUR NEW 'MASTERS' WILL END UP TELLING THE PEOPLE THAT THEY HAVE THE ALIENS' SUPPORT, AND THAT WE (ARE) AT THE 'EVE OF THE MILLENNIUM, A GOLDEN AGE'......
IT WILL BE THE WORST DICTATORSHIP EVER KNOWN TO MANKIND. "......IT IS QUITE CERTAIN THAT OTHER BASES HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THE UNITED STATES AND ELSEWHERE IN THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE. IT MAY EVEN BE THAT THE US BASES OCCUPIED BY THE GREYS, IN THE US MAINLAND, ARE OF THE SAME TYPE. ONE RUMOR HOLDS THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GREYS IS FOUND IN EACH OF THE UNDERGROUND US BASES IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
"None of the above has anything to do with science fiction. All of what I said in this text is true, and doesn't give a very rosy picture of the future."
There are many who believe that there are elements within the U.S. government who desire to make the truth known about an 'alien invasion' which is taking place on a subtle level. Apparently they realize that there is very little chance that the 'problem' can be solved without the support of the general public. One might wonder that with all of the cumbersome bureaucratic garbage which has accumulated within government, and with all the 'red-tape' politics which are necessary to get many things accomplished, that it may be extremely difficult to mobilize any UNIFIED effort against possible alien aggressors. Some 'government' officials seemingly realize this dilemma and are attempting to reconcile their Constitutional oaths with other seemingly contradictory 'orders' to mis-inform the public about a very real threat. This 'what you don't know can't hurt you' philosophy simply does not work, and in the Government's efforts to suppress widespread panic (or in some cases the secrecy is implemented by non-loyal factions within government agencies based on even more sinister motives), the government may have inadvertently destroyed the 'national security' they have been led to believe they were defending. The following article appeared on pp. 6-7 of the Vol. 2, No. 4 issue of 'UFO' Magazine.
"OFFICIAL DISCLOSURES HOVER ON HORIZON: PANEL FORESEES GOVERNMENT 'UNCOVER-UP""The controversial MJ-12 documents, if proven to be authentic, may be the beginning of a government effort to finally release UFO information to the public, according to one of the MJ-12 researchers, nuclear physicist Stanton Friedman. One important document purports to be a top-secret briefing to President-Elect Dwight D. Eisenhower about an alleged 1947 UFO crash in Roswell, New Mexico and the government's ensuing coverup of the incident. Friedman, along with colleagues Bill Moore and Jaime Shandera, is still in the process of researching the documents, but says they are reasonably convinced of their authenticity. "'There were actually plans to release a lot of UFO data to the public in 1973," Friedman said. His remarks came at a panel of UFO speakers presented at the Whole Life Expo held in October in Los Angeles, California. "The first of the government's three intended steps was the production of a made-for- television movie called 'UFOs: Past, Present and Future,' which focused on government information. There were to have been two more movies made, each using only government material and gradually escalating the degree of disclosure on government involvement, maybe from sightings to bodies to who knows what," said Friedman.
"OFFICIAL DISCLOSURES HOVER ON HORIZON:
PANEL FORESEES GOVERNMENT 'UNCOVER-UP""The controversial MJ-12 documents, if proven to be authentic, may be the beginning of a government effort to finally release UFO information to the public, according to one of the MJ-12 researchers, nuclear physicist Stanton Friedman. One important document purports to be a top-secret briefing to President-Elect Dwight D. Eisenhower about an alleged 1947 UFO crash in Roswell, New Mexico and the government's ensuing coverup of the incident. Friedman, along with colleagues Bill Moore and Jaime Shandera, is still in the process of researching the documents, but says they are reasonably convinced of their authenticity. "'There were actually plans to release a lot of UFO data to the public in 1973," Friedman said. His remarks came at a panel of UFO speakers presented at the Whole Life Expo held in October in Los Angeles, California. "The first of the government's three intended steps was the production of a made-for- television movie called 'UFOs: Past, Present and Future,' which focused on government information. There were to have been two more movies made, each using only government material and gradually escalating the degree of disclosure on government involvement, maybe from sightings to bodies to who knows what," said Friedman.
(In an later interview, Friedman's colleague Bill Moore attributed this information to producer/writer Bob Emenegger, who says he was approached by a high level government official to make the documentaries. Moore says Emenegger was invited to the Pentagon, and was given access to 800 feet of film of an alien landing at the Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico, footage that was subsequently retrieved by a colonel when the government changed its mind about the timing of its plan. 'UFOs: Past, Present and Future' was made without the government footage, and Emenegger went on to write a book of the same title.)
"'Unfortunately, right as this plan began to be implemented, a little event came along called Watergate, and it was obviously not the time to do this," Friedman told the Expo audience. "Remember the special circumstances of that--because they're appropriate now. Nixon had been reelected, and that meant he could not run again. Reagan is the next president to be in the situation; he cannot run again," Friedman said, conjecturing that this could lend credence to the idea that the release of the Majestic-12 documents is the next step of that postponed release of information. "'It seems entirely likely that the government may have gotten STUCK IN A POSITION OF COVERUP A LOT LONGER THAN THEY INTENDED. When you read the MJ-12 debriefing document, it states very clearly that one of their reasons for coverup was that there had been almost a public panic in response to sightings in 1947 "'Apparently, as long as UFO occupants' motivations weren't known, and government officials didn't know what their technology was, they felt they could not in good faith discharge their public responsibilities by telling the public "oh, by the way, there are these alien vehicles flying over our country. We don't know what they want, we don't know what they've done or will do, but we thought you ought to know."'
"'Unfortunately, right as this plan began to be implemented, a little event came along called Watergate, and it was obviously not the time to do this," Friedman told the Expo audience. "Remember the special circumstances of that--because they're appropriate now. Nixon had been reelected, and that meant he could not run again. Reagan is the next president to be in the situation; he cannot run again," Friedman said, conjecturing that this could lend credence to the idea that the release of the Majestic-12 documents is the next step of that postponed release of information. "'It seems entirely likely that the government may have gotten STUCK IN A POSITION OF COVERUP A LOT LONGER THAN THEY INTENDED. When you read the MJ-12 debriefing document, it states very clearly that one of their reasons for coverup was that there had been almost a public panic in response to sightings in 1947
"'Apparently, as long as UFO occupants' motivations weren't known, and government officials didn't know what their technology was, they felt they could not in good faith discharge their public responsibilities by telling the public "oh, by the way, there are these alien vehicles flying over our country. We don't know what they want, we don't know what they've done or will do, but we thought you ought to know."'
Friedman agrees that it would have been an irresponsible approach to dealing with the problem.
'I am by no means in favor of putting everything out on the table, especially in matters of technical detail, but that doesn't mean I don't think we ought to know what's going on.' "Indeed, Friedman is one of the key figures in a group of ufologists who are vigorously seeking to secure UFO data from government agencies. He held up one such document for the audience to see, the result of months of court appeals and denials. It was almost entirely crossed out with black felt-tip marker, deletions said to have been made in the 'Interests of national security.' "'Anytime someone tries to tell us that there is no such thing as a coverup, I say, "except what's under the felt-tip, and except what's in all of the classified material that they have refused to release,"' Friedman says, adding that government agencies have denies ufologists thousands of pages of documents relating to UFOs. "'Freedom of Information is not a magic key that unlocks all the doors, nor should it be.' His associate Bill Moore, also on the panel, voiced another opinion as to the nature and reasons for the coverup. To be subjective for a moment, one has to assume that if an alien intelligence is capable of manifesting itself, as some have alleged, through channeled experiences, or 'translations of light', as I've heard them referred to today, if they're capable of manifesting to some people in a group and not others, if they're capable of appearing in people's bedrooms and walking through walls, if they're capable of erasing memories, as appears to be the case in literally hundreds of alleged abductee experiences, if they are capable of coming here across the vast distances between us and the nearby stars, and underline 'if,' then maybe, by an extension of that logic, they would be capable of MANIPULATING THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN THE RECOVERY OF THIS CRASHED VEHICLE AND THE STUDY OF IT,' said Moore."
'I am by no means in favor of putting everything out on the table, especially in matters of technical detail, but that doesn't mean I don't think we ought to know what's going on.'
"Indeed, Friedman is one of the key figures in a group of ufologists who are vigorously seeking to secure UFO data from government agencies. He held up one such document for the audience to see, the result of months of court appeals and denials. It was almost entirely crossed out with black felt-tip marker, deletions said to have been made in the 'Interests of national security.' "'Anytime someone tries to tell us that there is no such thing as a coverup, I say, "except what's under the felt-tip, and except what's in all of the classified material that they have refused to release,"' Friedman says, adding that government agencies have denies ufologists thousands of pages of documents relating to UFOs. "'Freedom of Information is not a magic key that unlocks all the doors, nor should it be.' His associate Bill Moore, also on the panel, voiced another opinion as to the nature and reasons for the coverup. To be subjective for a moment, one has to assume that if an alien intelligence is capable of manifesting itself, as some have alleged, through channeled experiences, or 'translations of light', as I've heard them referred to today, if they're capable of manifesting to some people in a group and not others, if they're capable of appearing in people's bedrooms and walking through walls, if they're capable of erasing memories, as appears to be the case in literally hundreds of alleged abductee experiences, if they are capable of coming here across the vast distances between us and the nearby stars, and underline 'if,' then maybe, by an extension of that logic, they would be capable of MANIPULATING THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN THE RECOVERY OF THIS CRASHED VEHICLE AND THE STUDY OF IT,' said Moore."
Seemingly prophetical of Moore's own words, some researchers allege that even government officials trying to release UFO information might in SOME respects be deceived by alien influences into accepting information which is false or at least misleading, whether or not such researchers or expositors are 'knowingly' spreading such forms of propaganda. Some believe that Moore is caught in the middle of a kind of tug-of-war between government officials who are interested in getting the truth to the public and others who are intent on confusing the issue and continuing the cover-up. One possible indication of this comes from a UFOlogist, B.W., who sent a copy of the so-called 'South African Affair' information describing an alleged disk-recovery operation, to William Moore.
On March 13, 1990 Moore responded with the following words:
"You sent me a couple of pages of material on an alleged South African case. Try checking out the two people behind the documents: Henry Azahehdel and James van Groenen. You will find that the first is a convicted smuggler who had just been released from jail when that story just surfaced, and the second is a known con man with a history of forged credentials and shady deals. Want proof? I have it."
Leaders of QUEST INTERNATIONAL, the British UFO-club made up largely of ex-military, police and security officials with an interest in UFOs, argues however that such charges are misleading, and that SEVERAL people were involved in the investigation of the South African case, and that the evidence available indicates that either the incident actually occurred or the International 'Intelligence' Community is intentionally perpetrating a complex hoax for some undetermined reason. Moore also stated that, in regards to the alleged underground installation near Dulce, New Mexico:
"My first trip to Dulce was in 1982... I am completely satisfied that the whole Dulce story began as government disinformation, and that there is absolutely nothing beneath Archuleta Peak. How do I know? I've been up there... The satellite photo you sent me (made in 1968) is indeed of Groom Lake, which is in 'Area 51'...'Dreamland' is a different area entirely, and lies west of Area 51."
Also, Moore claims to have documentation that Frank Scully, who wrote 'BEHIND THE FLYING SAUCERS', which was one of the first books to describe an alleged disk-retrieval after an apparent 'UFO crash' near Aztec, New Mexico, was inspired by Silas M. Newton, a confidence artist, who along with his partner L.A. GeBauer systematically conned Frank Scully into writing the book. Moore offers his subscribers copies of F.B.I. files on Newton and many others. Actually, Moore seems to have unusually free access to sensitive government files on certain individuals. This in itself would indicate that he 'might' have ties with certain organizations within the Intelligence Community. Incidentally William Moore, according to THE JOURNAL OF UFO INVESTIGATION, admitted that he has worked with U.S. Intelligence in Connecticut for many years.
Researcher Jason Bishop, when asked to respond to these allegations by Moore, stated:
"...At his talk in L.A. on April 1st (1990) he stated that there are NO animal mutilations OR abductions! About the Aztec crash... it DID occur. Frank Scully did get bad info, but a crash DID occur... Moore says there is no base at Dulce because he has been there. How could he locate a base that is 4000 ft. in the ground? We have soundings that show large hollow areas below Archuleta Mesa (not just peak)... "Moore is WRONG about 'Dreamland; being west of Area 51. Groom Lake is WITHIN 'Dreamland' (Area #51)! Do not trust Moore... He is full of dis-information... Just a few months ago John Anderson (Integrated Health Network, Inc. Tempe, AZ) witnessed 3 discs land north of Dulce. His car would not work (not even the headlights) till they left (flew away). They met a McDonell Douglass traveling Lab van and Several Security Vehicles (nearby). The Japanese witnessed discs too (at Dulce). They also videotaped 2 discs at Area #51 in Feb. '90 and broadcast it on March 24th, '90 on NIPPON TV in Japan..."
In the April, 1991 issue of FATE magazine the following article was written by Ann Druffel.
UFOLOGY'S "MR. CONTROVERSY"? Following are some excerpts from this lengthy article: "William L. Moore has admitted passing disinformation to ufologists. Here is the rest of the story along with some startling NEW information---Do you believe it...? "(William Moore) made the startling announcement at the 35th MUFON (Mutual UFO Network) Annual Symposium in Las Vegas, Nevada, that he and his associate, Jaime Shandera, had been part of a disinformation scheme launched by the government against Paul Bennewitz, a scientist who had set out to prove that there was ongoing UFO activity at a military base adjacent to Bennewitz' New Mexico home... "WHY HE COOPERATED - Moore asked the forum audience the question, 'If an individual, flashing credentials of an agency of your government, invited you to cooperate with him in studying UFOs, what would you do?' He admitted that he jumped in, he felt he had to find out what there was to find out. He found himself in the midst of a widespread effort on the part of several government agencies to collect data, to send this data up to higher agencies, and to disseminate DISINFORMATION among the public. "Moore differentiated between 'disinformation' and 'misinformation.' Disinformation is a diversion away from the truth; it necessarily has some truth sprinkled in. Misinformation is lies, or phony information. "At this point, Moore made it plain that the disclosures he and Jaime Shandera planned to make at this forum were with the express permission of the government agents with whom they had been cooperating for several years. THE INFORMATION, HE WARNED, WOULD BE A MIXTURE OF TRUE INFORMATION AND DISINFORMATION, FOR THAT WAS THE WAY THE GOVERNMENT WORKED, EVEN IN THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH HIM. He assured the audience he and Shandera had tried to sort out fact from fiction in order to share it with them... "According to Moore...the official government policy for the past 21 years--ever since the 'close' of Project Blue Book, which ostensibly disseminated public information about UFO sightings-- is that UFOs do not exist. Why is the government, through the '80s and up to present, still spreading falsified data? "Perhaps the most blatant example of this concerns the Roswell, New Mexico, crash of 1947. In that situation, Moore is sure that something did crash on an isolated ranch near Roswell and that the air force put out a bulletin that they had recovered a 'flying saucer.' However, the next day this was denied and a cover story about a 'balloon' was disseminated as a cover-up, a story the government has stuck by for over 40 years. "To date, after years of investigation by Moore, Stanton Friedman and others, 130 people have been contacted and interviewed in connection with the Roswell crash. More than 36 claim to have been first-hand witnesses to the situation, and some claim to have actually held the wreckage in their hands. "Some reported that dead alien bodies were recovered from parts of the wreckage which came down a few miles from the main object. These 130 source stories do not include numerous other statements made by persons whom the investigators judged to be less than honest and reliable. "Moore thinks that writing THE ROSWELL INCIDENT opened a can of worms. In September 1980, shortly after the book was published, a source to which he gave the pseudonym 'Falcon' contacted him with the offer to participate in government UFO studies. To this day, Moore is not sure what the government people's motives were or what they continue to be. Other government sources continued to contact him, and he and Shandera continued to give each source the name of a bird. In this way, the two could discuss the activities in which Moore was involved without having to worry about telephones being bugged or being overheard in public places. "Bill Moore stated with a grin, 'There are now 12 in the aviary,' [Not to be confused with MJ-12 or Majestic 12. It is merely a coincidence that the 'aviary' and the alleged Majestic 12 high-level government UFO study group each have 12 members] all credible people, well-placed as employees, scientific consultants, or intelligence agents. They hold a variety of 'need to know' security clearances, and seem to know each other. Falcon's identity still remains a mystery, but Bill describes him as very knowledgeable about UFOs. (There is an ongoing controversy in the UFO field about Falcon's true identity as demonstrated by recent letters to the editor of Fate by such UFO notables as Jerome Clark and Linda Moulton Howe.) "He went on to describe the main characteristic of each aviary member: 'Hawk is a person well-connected in areas of study in ESP since the 1960s, with impressive credentials. Blue Jay is a person close to the President of the United States, capable of checking on information to determine its reliability. Partridge is a scientist privy to UFO information collected by the government. Chickadee is well-placed in the Pentagon and versed in scientific data. Heron is enigmatic and puzzling; he seems to 'speak in riddles.' Sparrow is the code name for Richard Doty, a former agent for the Air Force's Office of Scientific Information (AFOSI), and was the original go-between between Falcon and myself, and so on.' "Later, Moore stated that Doty was a small man in the operation. The process, in his opinion, started 'originally from the National Security Agency (NSA) and high levels of the AFOSI. "According to Moore's assessment, AFOSI holds prime responsibility for UFO data collection in the government. It is also responsible for planting information and disinformation on the subject. Why are they doing this if UFOs don't even exist? If it is a case of national security, why is this so? How could UFOs jeopardize the national security of the U.S.? "Of one thing Moore is sure. Government agents are faster at planting 'data' than civilians can check and verify it. Civilian UFO research finds itself in a pitiful state. Moore pinpointed the case of Paul Bennewitz as an example. The Department of Energy, the National Security Agency (NSA) and other government agencies were interested in Bennewitz' claim that he had intercepted low-frequency electromagnetic signals which he believed originated from UFOs. "Bennewitz was a reputable scientist; his only crime, according to Moore, was his claim that he was receiving signals from UFOs. To this date it is UNCLEAR whether or not the strange signals Bennewitz was picking up actually originated from secret government projects, and had no connection with UFOs... "According to Moore, he tried to diffuse all disinformation schemes containing references to underground alien bases, UFO involvement in cattle mutilations, genetic research by aliens and government, (so-called) 'hybrid' babies, and rumors of 'aliens among us.' He recognizes such incredible rumors--as the sort of thing that was fed to Paul Bennewitz and others. Disinformation, but even more so. "At the 1989 MUFON symposium in Las Vegas, Moore tried to defuse such stories, but they are still believed by some in the UFO community and by many members of the 'unsuspecting' public... "(Moore) has come to believe that ETs are more than one race. Whether they are extraterrestrial or intradimensional... they have some stake in our existence. Their agenda is their own, and to date not even the government has been advised of it. When Moore asks the aviary about this, he receives short and enigmatic answers. He has asked them about the question of UFO abductions, reports of which are flooding the UFO research field. The short answer by the aviary? 'Abductions are not happening...' "...Whatever aliens are doing on Earth, they are actively manipulating us as a race. They are also manipulating our awareness of them, and this is responsible for the various groups of humans in the UFO research field who are manipulating each other! But evidently some conditioning process is at work... "(Moore) learned that government agents had tested 20 people, all civilian researchers, to see what they would do with limited information, and Moore and he were chosen as a result of their reaction to the test... "During the past decade, there have been four or five 'summit meetings' of the aviary with Shandera and Moore. Once the meetings began, information flowed quite freely. Specific questions had to be asked of the right person, and the questions had to be carefully phrased. Other contacts are with just one of the aviary. "...Although the U.S. Presidents from 1947 onward have been advised of MJ-12's existence, they DO NOT control its activities. It is an INDEPENDENT entity, responsible for policies regarding UFOs and alien contact..."
UFOLOGY'S "MR. CONTROVERSY"? Following are some excerpts from this lengthy article: "William L. Moore has admitted passing disinformation to ufologists. Here is the rest of the story along with some startling NEW information---Do you believe it...? "(William Moore) made the startling announcement at the 35th MUFON (Mutual UFO Network) Annual Symposium in Las Vegas, Nevada, that he and his associate, Jaime Shandera, had been part of a disinformation scheme launched by the government against Paul Bennewitz, a scientist who had set out to prove that there was ongoing UFO activity at a military base adjacent to Bennewitz' New Mexico home... "WHY HE COOPERATED - Moore asked the forum audience the question, 'If an individual, flashing credentials of an agency of your government, invited you to cooperate with him in studying UFOs, what would you do?' He admitted that he jumped in, he felt he had to find out what there was to find out. He found himself in the midst of a widespread effort on the part of several government agencies to collect data, to send this data up to higher agencies, and to disseminate DISINFORMATION among the public. "Moore differentiated between 'disinformation' and 'misinformation.' Disinformation is a diversion away from the truth; it necessarily has some truth sprinkled in. Misinformation is lies, or phony information. "At this point, Moore made it plain that the disclosures he and Jaime Shandera planned to make at this forum were with the express permission of the government agents with whom they had been cooperating for several years. THE INFORMATION, HE WARNED, WOULD BE A MIXTURE OF TRUE INFORMATION AND DISINFORMATION, FOR THAT WAS THE WAY THE GOVERNMENT WORKED, EVEN IN THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH HIM. He assured the audience he and Shandera had tried to sort out fact from fiction in order to share it with them... "According to Moore...the official government policy for the past 21 years--ever since the 'close' of Project Blue Book, which ostensibly disseminated public information about UFO sightings-- is that UFOs do not exist. Why is the government, through the '80s and up to present, still spreading falsified data? "Perhaps the most blatant example of this concerns the Roswell, New Mexico, crash of 1947. In that situation, Moore is sure that something did crash on an isolated ranch near Roswell and that the air force put out a bulletin that they had recovered a 'flying saucer.' However, the next day this was denied and a cover story about a 'balloon' was disseminated as a cover-up, a story the government has stuck by for over 40 years. "To date, after years of investigation by Moore, Stanton Friedman and others, 130 people have been contacted and interviewed in connection with the Roswell crash. More than 36 claim to have been first-hand witnesses to the situation, and some claim to have actually held the wreckage in their hands. "Some reported that dead alien bodies were recovered from parts of the wreckage which came down a few miles from the main object. These 130 source stories do not include numerous other statements made by persons whom the investigators judged to be less than honest and reliable. "Moore thinks that writing THE ROSWELL INCIDENT opened a can of worms. In September 1980, shortly after the book was published, a source to which he gave the pseudonym 'Falcon' contacted him with the offer to participate in government UFO studies. To this day, Moore is not sure what the government people's motives were or what they continue to be.
Other government sources continued to contact him, and he and Shandera continued to give each source the name of a bird. In this way, the two could discuss the activities in which Moore was involved without having to worry about telephones being bugged or being overheard in public places. "Bill Moore stated with a grin, 'There are now 12 in the aviary,' [Not to be confused with MJ-12 or Majestic 12. It is merely a coincidence that the 'aviary' and the alleged Majestic 12 high-level government UFO study group each have 12 members] all credible people, well-placed as employees, scientific consultants, or intelligence agents.
They hold a variety of 'need to know' security clearances, and seem to know each other. Falcon's identity still remains a mystery, but Bill describes him as very knowledgeable about UFOs. (There is an ongoing controversy in the UFO field about Falcon's true identity as demonstrated by recent letters to the editor of Fate by such UFO notables as Jerome Clark and Linda Moulton Howe.) "He went on to describe the main characteristic of each aviary member:
'Hawk is a person well-connected in areas of study in ESP since the 1960s, with impressive credentials. Blue Jay is a person close to the President of the United States, capable of checking on information to determine its reliability. Partridge is a scientist privy to UFO information collected by the government. Chickadee is well-placed in the Pentagon and versed in scientific data. Heron is enigmatic and puzzling; he seems to 'speak in riddles.' Sparrow is the code name for Richard Doty, a former agent for the Air Force's Office of Scientific Information (AFOSI), and was the original go-between between Falcon and myself, and so on.'
'Hawk is a person well-connected in areas of study in ESP since the 1960s, with impressive credentials. Blue Jay is a person close to the President of the United States, capable of checking on information to determine its reliability. Partridge is a scientist privy to UFO information collected by the government.
Chickadee is well-placed in the Pentagon and versed in scientific data. Heron is enigmatic and puzzling; he seems to 'speak in riddles.' Sparrow is the code name for Richard Doty, a former agent for the Air Force's Office of Scientific Information (AFOSI), and was the original go-between between Falcon and myself, and so on.'
"Later, Moore stated that Doty was a small man in the operation. The process, in his opinion, started 'originally from the National Security Agency (NSA) and high levels of the AFOSI. "According to Moore's assessment, AFOSI holds prime responsibility for UFO data collection in the government. It is also responsible for planting information and disinformation on the subject. Why are they doing this if UFOs don't even exist? If it is a case of national security, why is this so? How could UFOs jeopardize the national security of the U.S.? "Of one thing Moore is sure. Government agents are faster at planting 'data' than civilians can check and verify it. Civilian UFO research finds itself in a pitiful state. Moore pinpointed the case of Paul Bennewitz as an example. The Department of Energy, the National Security Agency (NSA) and other government agencies were interested in Bennewitz' claim that he had intercepted low-frequency electromagnetic signals which he believed originated from UFOs. "Bennewitz was a reputable scientist; his only crime, according to Moore, was his claim that he was receiving signals from UFOs. To this date it is UNCLEAR whether or not the strange signals Bennewitz was picking up actually originated from secret government projects, and had no connection with UFOs... "According to Moore, he tried to diffuse all disinformation schemes containing references to underground alien bases, UFO involvement in cattle mutilations, genetic research by aliens and government, (so-called) 'hybrid' babies, and rumors of 'aliens among us.' He recognizes such incredible rumors--as the sort of thing that was fed to Paul Bennewitz and others. Disinformation, but even more so.
"At the 1989 MUFON symposium in Las Vegas, Moore tried to defuse such stories, but they are still believed by some in the UFO community and by many members of the 'unsuspecting' public... "(Moore) has come to believe that ETs are more than one race. Whether they are extraterrestrial or intradimensional... they have some stake in our existence. Their agenda is their own, and to date not even the government has been advised of it. When Moore asks the aviary about this, he receives short and enigmatic answers. He has asked them about the question of UFO abductions, reports of which are flooding the UFO research field. The short answer by the aviary? 'Abductions are not happening...' "...Whatever aliens are doing on Earth, they are actively manipulating us as a race. They are also manipulating our awareness of them, and this is responsible for the various groups of humans in the UFO research field who are manipulating each other! But evidently some conditioning process is at work... "(Moore) learned that government agents had tested 20 people, all civilian researchers, to see what they would do with limited information, and Moore and he were chosen as a result of their reaction to the test... "During the past decade, there have been four or five 'summit meetings' of the aviary with Shandera and Moore. Once the meetings began, information flowed quite freely. Specific questions had to be asked of the right person, and the questions had to be carefully phrased. Other contacts are with just one of the aviary. "...Although the U.S. Presidents from 1947 onward have been advised of MJ-12's existence, they DO NOT control its activities. It is an INDEPENDENT entity, responsible for policies regarding UFOs and alien contact..."
Mysterious informant 'Commander X' related the following information in one of his reports:
'...In the revised September, 1959 edition of THE EFFECTS OF ATOMIC WEAPONS, prepared for and in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Defense and The U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, under the direction of The Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, we read about how 'complete underground placement of bases is desirable.'
On page 382:
'There are apparently no fundamental difficulties in construction and operating Underground various types of important facilities. Such facilities may be placed in a suitable existing mine or a site may be excavated for the purpose.'
In reference to the 'Delta' Force which allegedly supplies security for Above Top Secret projects involving 'interaction' with the aliens (greys, etc.), the government informant states:
"The DELTA Group... have been seen (within the Intelligence Support Activity) with badges which have a black Triangle on a red background. "DELTA is the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet. It has the form of a triangle, and figures prominently in certain Masonic signs. "EACH BASE HAS ITS OWN SYMBOL. The Dulce base symbol is a triangle with the Greek letter 'Tau' (T) within it and then the symbol is inverted, so the triangle points down. "The Insignia of 'a triangle and three lateral lines' has been seen on 'Saucer (transport) Craft,' The Tri-Lateral Symbol. "Other symbols mark landing sites and 'Alien' craft..."
In his book 'ANATOMY OF PHENOMENA: UNIDENTIFIED OBJECT IN SPACE - A SCIENTIFIC APPRAISAL', researcher Jacques Vallee states:
"Agobard, Archbishop of Lyons, wrote in 'De Grandine at Tonitrua' how in 840 AD he found the mob in Lyons lynching three men and a woman accused of landing from a cloudship from the aerial region of Magonia. The great German philologst, Jacob Grimm, about 1820 described the legend of a ship from the clouds, and Montanus, an eighteenth century writer on German folklore, told of wizards flying in the clouds, who were shot down. The belief of Beings from the skies who surveyed our earth persisted in human consciousness throughout the Middle Ages." (Comments given by 'Drake', as related by Jacques Vallee)
"Agobard, Archbishop of Lyons, wrote in 'De Grandine at Tonitrua' how in 840 AD he found the mob in Lyons lynching three men and a woman accused of landing from a cloudship from the aerial region of Magonia.
The great German philologst, Jacob Grimm, about 1820 described the legend of a ship from the clouds, and Montanus, an eighteenth century writer on German folklore, told of wizards flying in the clouds, who were shot down. The belief of Beings from the skies who surveyed our earth persisted in human consciousness throughout the Middle Ages."
(Comments given by 'Drake', as related by Jacques Vallee)
Vallee quote's 'Drake's' translation of a manuscript, 'ANNALES LAURISSENSES' - A.D. 776, which gives some additional details on this incident:
"In 927 the town of Verdun, like the whole eastern part of France, saw fiery armies appearing in the sky. Similar phenomena happened several times under King Pepin the Short, under Charlemagne (and) under Louis I, the Debonair. These sovereigns' capitularia mention penalties against creatures that travel in aerial ships. Agobard, the archbishop of Lyons, is said to have freed three men and a woman who had come down from one of these spaceships, and were accused by the mob of being emissaries sent by Grimoald, Duke of Benevento, to spoil the French harvests and vintage by their enchantments. Emperor Charlemagne's edicts forbade the perturbing of the air, provoking of storms by magical means and the practicing of mathematics... Agobard's manuscript, which can be consulted at the National Library, mentions that the astronauts captured at Lyons were obviously foreigners and that 'by an inconceivable fatality, these unfortunate people were so insane AS TO ADMIT THEY WERE WIZARDS. The mob killed them, and their corpses were fastened to boards and thrown into the rivers... In March, 842, multicolored armies were seen marching in the sky... these sightings of INFERNAL armies were nocturnal, THEY SEVERAL TIMES ACCOMPANIED THE SIEGE OF JERUSALEM."
Return to Project Aquarius
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to Vida en Nuestra Galaxia
Return to The Occult Reptilian Saga
