# "Project JEHOVAH" - Interview With Ryan Wood

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_mj12_26.htm

by Linda Moulton-Howe
from DWIJ Website
Since the mid-1990s, aerospace engineer, Robert Wood, Ph.D., and his son, Ryan Wood, a mathematics and computer science professional, have taken on the challenge of trying to prove - or disprove - the authenticity of several hundred pages of allegedly leaked U. S. government documents about "flying saucers," "extraterrestrial biological entities" and "interplanetary" technologies.
Their main source has been a man named Timothy Cooper whose father worked at White Sands in the 1940s.
Twice Timothy has found in his mailbox a large stash of alleged classified government documents from one or more anonymous sources. The latest delivery was July 2001 and the postmark on the package was from "Virginia." Inside were 23 pages of new documents, not originals, but photocopies of old onion skin copies of original documents. The tissue-thin onion skin paper had bled through from the back side making them very difficult to read. Dr. Wood used a magnifying glass this summer of 2002 and painstakingly translated all the pages into clean, easier to read copies at Bob and Ryan Wood's www.majesticdocuments.com website. This weekend, I talked with Ryan Wood about the content in the latest batch of documents that includes extraterrestrial technology descriptions and a reference to "Project JEHOVAH" analyzed for the Majestic-12 Special Studies Group by the famous physicist, Albert Einstein, Ph.D., and physicist, Robert Oppenheimer, Ph.D, Director of the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos.
Another major scientist referenced in the latest batch of documents is Edward Teller, who directed the U. S. Defense Department's "Star Wars" efforts under the Ronald Reagan Administration in the 1980s.
The Star Wars goal was to have military ability to destroy any foreign technologies coming from the atmosphere into North America, including nuclear missiles.
Interview
Ryan Wood, President, www.majesticdocuments.com
Broomfield, Colorado:
"Edward Teller wrote a couple of papers that talk about UFO sovereignty and our airspace through the state of UFO intelligence operations, problems with current policy and proposed solutions. They talk about UFOs as 'space weapons' and recommend changes to the national security estimate. One paper Edward Teller wrote is 'UFO Technology and the Imbalance of Power.' The first paragraph is kind of neat: "Today all on earth are close neighbors. The first world which is liberal, the second world which is dictatorial, the third world where changes are rapid and often violent. The fate of all hinges on the development and use of UFO technology. If we want to understand and influence the future, we should review and understand humankind's new tools." Synchronicity: Edward Teller died on this September date as our article published THIS WAS WRITTEN WHEN? It's undated. BUT YOU THINK IT'S THE 1980S? Yeah, I think it's the 1980s. THAT WOULD BE THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION WHEN TELLER WAS HEAD OF (DEFENSE DEPARTMENT'S) STAR WARS? Correct. IN YOUR NEW FILM ENTITLED The Secret - Evidence That We Are Not Alone, - WHICH IS EXCELLENT - YOU GO INTO MANY OF THESE DOCUMENTS. AND ONE THAT YOU AND YOUR FATHER TALK ABOUT IN THE FILM IS A SEPTEMBER 2, 1947 DOCUMENT THAT REFERENCES SOMETHING LIKE GLASS THREADS THAT HAVE PLASTIC CLADDING AROUND THEM. Right. It's an annual report dated 2 September 1947. The subject is 'Flying Saucer' and it's to the Commanding General of the Air Materiel Command (AMC) at Wright Field, Ohio. The document is not complete. We just have two pages. But there is a paragraph at the end. It's 'MAGIC EYES ONLY, Subject: Flying Saucer.' 'Flight instruments and controls are activated by optical wave guide fibers, similar to glass rods except they are flexible and have a plastic cladding wrap. All functions may be operated by touch sensitive or texture sensing stimuli. Instruments are covered by plastic plate that seem to be color coded.' When I first read this, I was interested in the linkage to fiber optics and did some research on fiber optics and it really was not patented until 1954. This was written in 1947. SEVEN YEARS BEFORE. Seven years before and the key breakthrough in fiber optics really is this cladding wrap. This allows improved signal to noise, it allows you to have something effective as a communications tool. THERE IS NO CONFUSION THAT THIS WAS IN THE CONTEXT OF EXTRATERRESTRIAL TECHNOLOGY? Yeah, the subject is 'Flying Saucer' on the Analytical Report and that's Paragraph 7 in the report. Other paragraphs under 'general description of the craft' say: 'Metallic skin of high polished finish. A comparison of A151 E1112 steels indicates that the metals used to construct the craft exceed structure, chemical compositions and mechanical properties currently under development. Metal specimens were subjected to AISI 8620, AISI 3140, AISI 4140, AISI E4340, AISI 5140, AISI 8640, AISI E5Z100, and AISI 430, 410 and 347 machining tests with negative results. Craft designed for high altitude flight. Automatic exhaust orifices were identified. A gyro-controlled wing stabilizer apparently maintains craft in a hover mode. Power plant may consist of a spherical reactor (hydrogen isotope type) connected to propulsion motors. 100 ft. in diameter with central section approximately 30 ft. Central cabin may have three flight decks: top level for flight control; central section for equipment; and lower section for power plant and landing gear. Circular wing may have rotating section and adjustable leading edge. Top (dome) may have the ability to recede into central section for high performance operations. Observation blisters are retract to provide observation top and bottom of wing. Construction is based on a 6:1 ratio. Flight instruments and controls are activated by optical wave guide fibers, similar to glass rods except they are flexible and have a plastic cladding wrap. All functions may be operated by touch sensitive or texture sensing stimuli. Instruments are covered by plastic plate that seem to be color coded. Craft may have all weather navigation capability to allow 'blind flying.' Possible television viewing used.' THIS IS ONLY TWO MONTHS ALMOST TO THE DAY FROM THE SO-CALLED ROSWELL CRASHES IN NEW MEXICO? Yeah, we have all of July and all of August. That's right, just two months. And they would have been working hot and heavy trying to understand the core technology and write up the results. DO ANY OF THE NEW DOCUMENTS INDICATE A LINKAGE BETWEEN THEIR CONTENT AND ANY SPECIFIC CRASH OR CRASH SITE? Only by implication due to date. It is 16 July 1947 that Nathan Twining, the Commanding General, requested that his people go through and do a detailed analysis and he wrote a memo on 16 July 1947, and they start doing a bunch of work. We see this technical report, this analytical report, and one piece of evidence. There is also a more detailed report, the September 19, 1947, known as the 'White Hot Report' which was released earlier by Tim Cooper. There, it's called 'Mission Assessment of Recovered Lenticular Aerodyne Objects.' It's a 28-page report, double spaced. Twining's "White Hot" Report Mission Assessment of Recovered Lenticular Aerodyne Objects, 19 September 1947 from MajesticDocuments website "No one, without express permission from the President, may disseminate the information contained in this report or communicate it to any unauthorized person not possessing MAJIC SECURITY CLEARANCE." The White Hot report is a 19-page document, dated 19 September 1947 and signed by an appropriate cadre of military leaders on 24 September 1947. Several accounts of individual pilots were reported in 1947 with varying details that make each encounter a unique piece in a puzzle of phenomenon. In this particular year, sightings were reported "not only in the United States, but also in Sweden, Germany, Holland, Paraguay, Scandinavia, Greece, and by ships at sea." Studied by classified teams of experts, many interesting and provocative details were recorded in this report of unidentifiable crash remains. The document is broken down into various sections that address concerns specifically: Preliminary Intelligence Estimate, Technical Evaluation, Scientific Probabilities, Political Considerations, and National Security Structure. In the preliminary estimate, experts of the AMC and ONR speculate that "the unidentified lenticular-shaped aerodynamical-lacking conventional wing, fuselage, nacelle, control, and fuel systems" is not only foreign to United States technology, but is also unlikely to be of Russian origin, or for that matter, unlikely to have been designed to operate within the earth's atmosphere. Several bodies were discovered along with the material of the crash, their existence and death just as mysterious as the cause of the crash itself. More interesting than these basic facts is the evidence that suggests "a symbionic relationship between operator and the functions of the aerodyne's operation." This particular leaked governmental document has a plethora of factual information linked to the retrieval and appraisal of the evidence collected from the recovered exhibits that "AMC, ASP, NEAP, ACE, ONR, NACKA, JED, RAND, USAF, SAG, and MIT, are deemed extraterrestrial in nature." The White Hot report not only covers the factual evidence of the retrieval, but also sheds light on a number of conceptual concerns surrounding politics, National Security, nuclear weaponry, and the reasons behind keeping knowledge of this nature out of the public's grasp indefinitely. It concludes, for the well being of the public, of course, and the protection of national security, that "the US must be perceived as being the top of the heap, and every effort must be made to insure that there is, and never has been, a threat to the country." It's basically the technical and analytical summary of the Eisenhower Briefing Document which has been commonly worked by Stan Friedman and others. AND IT'S IN THE 'WHITE HOT' DOCUMENT, RIGHT, THAT THERE IS ANOTHER REFERENCE TO SCIENTISTS ANALYZING LINES CONNECTING DOTS THAT ARE ETCHED IN PURE SILVER? Yeah, they are describing the various aspects of what they found. Paragraph 18 talks about the elements in the small 'neutronic power plant.' And Paragraph 20 says 'the only evident circuitry found on the motor was a thin plastic-like sheet fashioned like platters embossed on the exterior of a spherically shaped casing coated by a thin coating of pure silver.' They are describing this motor. 'Under high powered magnification, it was observed a series of fine grid-like lines intersecting groups of dots arranged in circular patterns.' That description, sounds very much like an integrated circuit of today. What's powerful is that they chose so many words to describe an integrated circuit. It just smacks of authenticity because of its phrasing. BECAUSE THEY DID NOT KNOW WHAT IT WAS. That's right. All they could do was describe what they see. (Some of the documents) are very exotic sounding. There is a 1-pager (above) that's called, 'Code Word White Pebble MAJCOMSEC INTELLIGENCE EYES ONLY, PROJECT JEHOVAH.' And the subject is: 'National Security Agency Code Breaking of Alien Codex and Historical Research of the Central Intelligence Agency's MJEBEN Program and Department of Defense U.F.O. Identification and Detection Project FIRESTONE.' WOW, AND JEHOVAH, AS IN BREAKING THE CODE OF AN ALIEN LANGUAGE, WHICH IS WHAT THAT SOUNDS LIKE. Right, and prepared by the MJ-12 Group Technical Advisory Panel (MTAP-12) on Oct. 2, 1962. PROJECT JEHOVAH ALSO CAME UP IN ANOTHER DOCUMENT THAT I BELIEVE WAS SIGNED BETWEEN PRESIDENT EISENHOWER AND SOMEONE? Yes. It was from Ike (Eisenhower) to the DCI. November 4, 1953, TOP SECRET (downgraded to SECRET) to the Director of Central Intelligence. (President Eisenhower) is talking about in the opening sentence to the Director of Central Intelligence: 'I have studied the MJ-TWELVE Operations Plan of June 16, 1953, on the subject of instructions for the expenditures of the National UFO Intelligence Program, and more specifically, the Special Operations Instruction to be issued to Unified and Specific Major Commands and Commanders. Then in a last paragraph, it says: 'Preferably, I would like to see this done in a closed meeting to be arranged through the Director of the National Security Agency, yourself (Director of Central Intelligence), and representatives of the MJ-12 Special Studies Project. I specifically want Project JEHOVAH director Professor Albert Einstein and doctor Robert Oppenheimer to inject any useful comments to the briefing as they are most informed on the physics related to the subject. Perhaps the annual Quantico conference would provide an opportunity to do this without the publicity which would call attention to such a special meeting. Sincerely, Dwight D. Eisenhower' JUST THINK, RYAN, IF THIS IS LITERALLY TRUE, IT MEANS THAT THE GREAT PHYSICIST ALBERT EINSTEIN, WAS COOPERATING WITH THE EISENHOWER ADMINISTRATION IN THE EARLY 1950S IN TRYING TO TRANSLATE OR DECODE SOME KIND OF EXTRATERRESTRIAL BIOLOGICAL ENTITY LANGUAGE OR CODE THAT THEY WERE REFERENCING AS PROJECT JEHOVAH. That's what it seems to indicate. These are the only two documents that are so specific about Project JEHOVAH. I think these are the only documents that mention Project JEHOVAH directly. Many discuss EBEs and MJ-12 Special Study Project and Einstein and Oppenheimer, but these (Eisenhower November 4, 1953 and Code Word White Pebble October 2, 1962.) are the two that talk about Project JEHOVAH. HAVE YOU OR YOUR FATHER GOTTEN ANY STATIC FROM ANYONE IN THE GOVERNMENT AT ANY LEVEL IN THE LAST YEAR OR TWO AS YOU CONTINUE TO TRY TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF MAJESTIC 12? No. So far, we have been, no one has asked us to stop or bothered us. We have no indications of concern. Of course, you always have paranoias occasionally, but there is no overt sign of any problem. I honestly think that we are just a cog in the system and we are part of the campaign to desensitize the American citizenry to the truth about extraterrestrial and we happen to be specializing in documents which appeal to somebody who is a little more scholarly or intellectual in their approach to the UFO field and aren't impressed by lights in the sky or recollections of abduction experiences and things like that. WHAT DO YOU THINK IT IS GOING TO TAKE FROM ALL OF THE DOCUMENTS YOU HAVE TO CONVINCE THE NEW YORK TIMES THAT THIS IS SERIOUS? There are lots of people alive who could tell the truth and expose credibly a lot of this, but they suffer incredible penalties. Their pensions would be confiscated, their livelihoods, they would be thrown in jail. There is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act which - you have to have a search warrant, you can show up in secret and have a federal agent search your house, tap your phone, monitor you, all without due process. It's designed for catching spies, but the question is: what is foreign intelligence? Would they consider trafficking in UFO documents foreign intelligence? CLEARLY THAT HAS BEEN THE DEFINITION FOR A LONG TIME. You know, so it's very challenging situation to come forward with proof. I am reminded of President Bush's comments to Saddam Hussein when he talks about, "complete and unfettered access to his weapons of mass destruction sites. And what I want is complete and unfettered access to the 631 vault in the National Archives. And with a team of archivists for 2 or 3 months to find the truth that they are hiding extraterrestrial reality." More Information: The following is a partial excerpt of the lengthy and detailed information of a July 16, 1947, document from Headquarters Army Air Force Commanding General, Nathan Twining, to Commanding General Air Defense Command. "This three page bureaucratic report provides the first glimpses of Lt. General Nathan F. Twining's Air Accident Report original published in Leonard Stringfield's (now deceased) Status Report VII, in 1994. Ryan Wood comments: "Twining apparently describes in first order detail the inside of a flying disc, everything from the typewriter-like keys that control the propulsion system to a thirty-five-foot-diameter doughnut shaped tube," possibly filled with heavy water. "The significance and consistency of the technical content has not been evaluated, although it is clear that the writing is consistent with 1947 state of the art, not modern." "As ordered by Presidential Directive, dated 9 July 1947, a preliminary investigation of a recovered "Flying Disc" and remains of a possible second disc, was conducted by the senior staff of this command. The data furnished in this report was provided by the engineer staff personnel of T-2 and Aircraft Laboratory, Engineering Division T. Additional data was supplied by the scientific personnel of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, CIT and the Army Air Forces Scientific Advisory Group, headed by Dr. Theodore von Karman. Further analysis was conducted by personnel from Research and Development. It is the collective view of this investigative body, that the aircraft recovered by the Army and Air Force units near Victorio Peak and Socorro, New Mexico, are not of U.S. manufacture for the following reasons: The circular, disc-shaped 'planform' design does not resemble any design currently under development by this command nor of any Navy project. The lack of any external propulsion system, power plant, intake, exhaust either for propeller or jet propulsion, warrants this view. The inability of the German scientists from Fort Bliss and White Sands Proving Ground to make a positive identification of a secret German V weapon out of these discs. Though the possibility that the Russians have managed to develop such a craft remains. The lack of any markings, ID numbers or instructions in Cyrillic, has placed serious doubt in the minds of many, that the objects recovered are not of Russian manufacture either. Upon examination of the interior of the craft, a compartment exhibiting a possible atomic engine was discovered. At least this is the opinion of Dr. Oppenheimer and Dr. von Karman. A possibility exists that part of the craft itself comprises the propulsion system; thus, allowing the reactor to function as a heat exchanger and permitting the storage of energy into a substance for later use. This may allow the converting of mass into energy, unlike the release of energy of our atomic bombs. The description of the power room is as follows: A doughnut shaped tube approximately thirty-five feet in diameter, made of what appears to be a plastic material, surrounding a central core. This tube was translucent, approximately one inch thick. The tube appeared to be filled with a clear substance, possibly a heavy water. A large rod, centered inside the tube, was wrapped in a coil of what appears to be of copper material, ran through the circumference of the tube. This may be the reactor control mechanism or a storage battery. There were no moving parts discernible within the (words obscured here). This activation of a electrical potential is believed to be the primary power to the reactor, though it is only a theory at present. Just how a heavy water reactor functions in this environment is unknown. Underneath the power plant, was discovered a ball-turret, approximately ten feet in diameter. This turret was encompassed by a series of gears that has a unusual ratio not known by any of our engineers. On the underside of the turret were four circular cavities, coated with some smooth material not identified. These cavities are symmetrical, but seem to be movable. Just how is not known. The movement of the turret coincides with the dome-shaped cupola compartment above the power room. It is believed that the main propulsion system is a bladeless turbine, similar to current development now underway at AMC and the Mogul Project. A possible theory was devised by Dr. August Steinhoff (a Paperclip scientist), Dr. Werner von Braun and Dr. Theodore von Karman as the craft moves through the air, it somehow draws the oxygen from the atmosphere and by a induction process, generates a atomic fusion reaction (see TAB 2). The air outside the craft would be ionized, thus propelling the craft forward. Coupled with the circular air foil for lift, the craft would presumably have an unlimited range and air speed. This may account for the reported absence of any noise and the apparent blue flame often associated with rapid acceleration. On the deck of the power room, there are what resembles typewriter keys, possibly reactor/powerplant controls. There were no conventional electronics nor wiring to be seen connecting these controls to the propulsion turret. There is a flight deck located inside the cupola section. It is round and domed at the top. The absence of canopy, observation windows/blisters, or any optical projection, lends support to the opinion that this craft is either guided by remote viewing or is remotely controlled. A semi-circular photo-tube array (possibly television). Crew compartments were hermetically sealed via a solidification process. No weld marks, rivets or soldered joints. Craft components appear to be molded and pressed into a perfect fit."
"Edward Teller wrote a couple of papers that talk about UFO sovereignty and our airspace through the state of UFO intelligence operations, problems with current policy and proposed solutions. They talk about UFOs as 'space weapons' and recommend changes to the national security estimate. One paper Edward Teller wrote is 'UFO Technology and the Imbalance of Power.' The first paragraph is kind of neat:
"Today all on earth are close neighbors. The first world which is liberal, the second world which is dictatorial, the third world where changes are rapid and often violent. The fate of all hinges on the development and use of UFO technology. If we want to understand and influence the future, we should review and understand humankind's new tools." Synchronicity: Edward Teller died on this September date as our article published
"Today all on earth are close neighbors. The first world which is liberal, the second world which is dictatorial, the third world where changes are rapid and often violent. The fate of all hinges on the development and use of UFO technology. If we want to understand and influence the future, we should review and understand humankind's new tools."
Synchronicity: Edward Teller died on this September date as our article published
THIS WAS WRITTEN WHEN? It's undated.
BUT YOU THINK IT'S THE 1980S? Yeah, I think it's the 1980s.
THAT WOULD BE THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION WHEN TELLER WAS HEAD OF (DEFENSE DEPARTMENT'S) STAR WARS? Correct.
IN YOUR NEW FILM ENTITLED The Secret - Evidence That We Are Not Alone, - WHICH IS EXCELLENT - YOU GO INTO MANY OF THESE DOCUMENTS. AND ONE THAT YOU AND YOUR FATHER TALK ABOUT IN THE FILM IS A SEPTEMBER 2, 1947 DOCUMENT THAT REFERENCES SOMETHING LIKE GLASS THREADS THAT HAVE PLASTIC CLADDING AROUND THEM. Right. It's an annual report dated 2 September 1947. The subject is 'Flying Saucer' and it's to the Commanding General of the Air Materiel Command (AMC) at Wright Field, Ohio. The document is not complete. We just have two pages. But there is a paragraph at the end.
It's 'MAGIC EYES ONLY, Subject: Flying Saucer.'
'Flight instruments and controls are activated by optical wave guide fibers, similar to glass rods except they are flexible and have a plastic cladding wrap. All functions may be operated by touch sensitive or texture sensing stimuli. Instruments are covered by plastic plate that seem to be color coded.'
When I first read this, I was interested in the linkage to fiber optics and did some research on fiber optics and it really was not patented until 1954. This was written in 1947.
SEVEN YEARS BEFORE. Seven years before and the key breakthrough in fiber optics really is this cladding wrap. This allows improved signal to noise, it allows you to have something effective as a communications tool.
THERE IS NO CONFUSION THAT THIS WAS IN THE CONTEXT OF EXTRATERRESTRIAL TECHNOLOGY? Yeah, the subject is 'Flying Saucer' on the Analytical Report and that's Paragraph 7 in the report. Other paragraphs under 'general description of the craft' say:
'Metallic skin of high polished finish. A comparison of A151 E1112 steels indicates that the metals used to construct the craft exceed structure, chemical compositions and mechanical properties currently under development. Metal specimens were subjected to AISI 8620, AISI 3140, AISI 4140, AISI E4340, AISI 5140, AISI 8640, AISI E5Z100, and AISI 430, 410 and 347 machining tests with negative results.
Craft designed for high altitude flight. Automatic exhaust orifices were identified. A gyro-controlled wing stabilizer apparently maintains craft in a hover mode.
Power plant may consist of a spherical reactor (hydrogen isotope type) connected to propulsion motors.
100 ft. in diameter with central section approximately 30 ft. Central cabin may have three flight decks: top level for flight control; central section for equipment; and lower section for power plant and landing gear. Circular wing may have rotating section and adjustable leading edge.
Top (dome) may have the ability to recede into central section for high performance operations. Observation blisters are retract to provide observation top and bottom of wing.
Construction is based on a 6:1 ratio.
Flight instruments and controls are activated by optical wave guide fibers, similar to glass rods except they are flexible and have a plastic cladding wrap. All functions may be operated by touch sensitive or texture sensing stimuli. Instruments are covered by plastic plate that seem to be color coded.
Craft may have all weather navigation capability to allow 'blind flying.' Possible television viewing used.'
THIS IS ONLY TWO MONTHS ALMOST TO THE DAY FROM THE SO-CALLED ROSWELL CRASHES IN NEW MEXICO? Yeah, we have all of July and all of August. That's right, just two months. And they would have been working hot and heavy trying to understand the core technology and write up the results.
DO ANY OF THE NEW DOCUMENTS INDICATE A LINKAGE BETWEEN THEIR CONTENT AND ANY SPECIFIC CRASH OR CRASH SITE? Only by implication due to date. It is 16 July 1947 that Nathan Twining, the Commanding General, requested that his people go through and do a detailed analysis and he wrote a memo on 16 July 1947, and they start doing a bunch of work. We see this technical report, this analytical report, and one piece of evidence. There is also a more detailed report, the September 19, 1947, known as the 'White Hot Report' which was released earlier by Tim Cooper. There, it's called 'Mission Assessment of Recovered Lenticular Aerodyne Objects.'
It's a 28-page report, double spaced.
Twining's "White Hot" Report
Mission Assessment of Recovered Lenticular Aerodyne Objects,
19 September 1947
from MajesticDocuments website
"No one, without express permission from the President, may disseminate the information contained in this report or communicate it to any unauthorized person not possessing MAJIC SECURITY CLEARANCE."
The White Hot report is a 19-page document, dated 19 September 1947 and signed by an appropriate cadre of military leaders on 24 September 1947. Several accounts of individual pilots were reported in 1947 with varying details that make each encounter a unique piece in a puzzle of phenomenon.
In this particular year, sightings were reported "not only in the United States, but also in Sweden, Germany, Holland, Paraguay, Scandinavia, Greece, and by ships at sea." Studied by classified teams of experts, many interesting and provocative details were recorded in this report of unidentifiable crash remains. The document is broken down into various sections that address concerns specifically: Preliminary Intelligence Estimate, Technical Evaluation, Scientific Probabilities, Political Considerations, and National Security Structure.
In the preliminary estimate, experts of the AMC and ONR speculate that "the unidentified lenticular-shaped aerodynamical-lacking conventional wing, fuselage, nacelle, control, and fuel systems" is not only foreign to United States technology, but is also unlikely to be of Russian origin, or for that matter, unlikely to have been designed to operate within the earth's atmosphere.
Several bodies were discovered along with the material of the crash, their existence and death just as mysterious as the cause of the crash itself. More interesting than these basic facts is the evidence that suggests "a symbionic relationship between operator and the functions of the aerodyne's operation." This particular leaked governmental document has a plethora of factual information linked to the retrieval and appraisal of the evidence collected from the recovered exhibits that "AMC, ASP, NEAP, ACE, ONR, NACKA, JED, RAND, USAF, SAG, and MIT, are deemed extraterrestrial in nature."
The White Hot report not only covers the factual evidence of the retrieval, but also sheds light on a number of conceptual concerns surrounding politics, National Security, nuclear weaponry, and the reasons behind keeping knowledge of this nature out of the public's grasp indefinitely.
It concludes, for the well being of the public, of course, and the protection of national security, that "the US must be perceived as being the top of the heap, and every effort must be made to insure that there is, and never has been, a threat to the country."
It's basically the technical and analytical summary of the Eisenhower Briefing Document which has been commonly worked by Stan Friedman and others.
AND IT'S IN THE 'WHITE HOT' DOCUMENT, RIGHT, THAT THERE IS ANOTHER REFERENCE TO SCIENTISTS ANALYZING LINES CONNECTING DOTS THAT ARE ETCHED IN PURE SILVER? Yeah, they are describing the various aspects of what they found. Paragraph 18 talks about the elements in the small 'neutronic power plant.' And Paragraph 20 says 'the only evident circuitry found on the motor was a thin plastic-like sheet fashioned like platters embossed on the exterior of a spherically shaped casing coated by a thin coating of pure silver.' They are describing this motor. 'Under high powered magnification, it was observed a series of fine grid-like lines intersecting groups of dots arranged in circular patterns.' That description, sounds very much like an integrated circuit of today. What's powerful is that they chose so many words to describe an integrated circuit. It just smacks of authenticity because of its phrasing.
BECAUSE THEY DID NOT KNOW WHAT IT WAS. That's right. All they could do was describe what they see. (Some of the documents) are very exotic sounding. There is a 1-pager (above) that's called, 'Code Word White Pebble MAJCOMSEC INTELLIGENCE EYES ONLY, PROJECT JEHOVAH.'
And the subject is: 'National Security Agency Code Breaking of Alien Codex and Historical Research of the Central Intelligence Agency's MJEBEN Program and Department of Defense U.F.O. Identification and Detection Project FIRESTONE.'
WOW, AND JEHOVAH, AS IN BREAKING THE CODE OF AN ALIEN LANGUAGE, WHICH IS WHAT THAT SOUNDS LIKE. Right, and prepared by the MJ-12 Group Technical Advisory Panel (MTAP-12) on Oct. 2, 1962.
PROJECT JEHOVAH ALSO CAME UP IN ANOTHER DOCUMENT THAT I BELIEVE WAS SIGNED BETWEEN PRESIDENT EISENHOWER AND SOMEONE? Yes. It was from Ike (Eisenhower) to the DCI. November 4, 1953, TOP SECRET (downgraded to SECRET) to the Director of Central Intelligence. (President Eisenhower) is talking about in the opening sentence to the Director of Central Intelligence:
'I have studied the MJ-TWELVE Operations Plan of June 16, 1953, on the subject of instructions for the expenditures of the National UFO Intelligence Program, and more specifically, the Special Operations Instruction to be issued to Unified and Specific Major Commands and Commanders. Then in a last paragraph, it says: 'Preferably, I would like to see this done in a closed meeting to be arranged through the Director of the National Security Agency, yourself (Director of Central Intelligence), and representatives of the MJ-12 Special Studies Project. I specifically want Project JEHOVAH director Professor Albert Einstein and doctor Robert Oppenheimer to inject any useful comments to the briefing as they are most informed on the physics related to the subject. Perhaps the annual Quantico conference would provide an opportunity to do this without the publicity which would call attention to such a special meeting. Sincerely, Dwight D. Eisenhower'
'I have studied the MJ-TWELVE Operations Plan of June 16, 1953, on the subject of instructions for the expenditures of the National UFO Intelligence Program, and more specifically, the Special Operations Instruction to be issued to Unified and Specific Major Commands and Commanders.
Then in a last paragraph, it says:
'Preferably, I would like to see this done in a closed meeting to be arranged through the Director of the National Security Agency, yourself (Director of Central Intelligence), and representatives of the MJ-12 Special Studies Project. I specifically want Project JEHOVAH director Professor Albert Einstein and doctor Robert Oppenheimer to inject any useful comments to the briefing as they are most informed on the physics related to the subject. Perhaps the annual Quantico conference would provide an opportunity to do this without the publicity which would call attention to such a special meeting. Sincerely, Dwight D. Eisenhower'
'Preferably, I would like to see this done in a closed meeting to be arranged through the Director of the National Security Agency, yourself (Director of Central Intelligence), and representatives of the MJ-12 Special Studies Project.
I specifically want Project JEHOVAH director Professor Albert Einstein and doctor Robert Oppenheimer to inject any useful comments to the briefing as they are most informed on the physics related to the subject. Perhaps the annual Quantico conference would provide an opportunity to do this without the publicity which would call attention to such a special meeting. Sincerely,
Dwight D. Eisenhower'
JUST THINK, RYAN, IF THIS IS LITERALLY TRUE, IT MEANS THAT THE GREAT PHYSICIST ALBERT EINSTEIN, WAS COOPERATING WITH THE EISENHOWER ADMINISTRATION IN THE EARLY 1950S IN TRYING TO TRANSLATE OR DECODE SOME KIND OF EXTRATERRESTRIAL BIOLOGICAL ENTITY LANGUAGE OR CODE THAT THEY WERE REFERENCING AS PROJECT JEHOVAH. That's what it seems to indicate. These are the only two documents that are so specific about Project JEHOVAH. I think these are the only documents that mention Project JEHOVAH directly. Many discuss EBEs and MJ-12 Special Study Project and Einstein and Oppenheimer, but these (Eisenhower November 4, 1953 and Code Word White Pebble October 2, 1962.) are the two that talk about Project JEHOVAH.
HAVE YOU OR YOUR FATHER GOTTEN ANY STATIC FROM ANYONE IN THE GOVERNMENT AT ANY LEVEL IN THE LAST YEAR OR TWO AS YOU CONTINUE TO TRY TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF MAJESTIC 12? No. So far, we have been, no one has asked us to stop or bothered us. We have no indications of concern. Of course, you always have paranoias occasionally, but there is no overt sign of any problem. I honestly think that we are just a cog in the system and we are part of the campaign to desensitize the American citizenry to the truth about extraterrestrial and we happen to be specializing in documents which appeal to somebody who is a little more scholarly or intellectual in their approach to the UFO field and aren't impressed by lights in the sky or recollections of abduction experiences and things like that.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT IS GOING TO TAKE FROM ALL OF THE DOCUMENTS YOU HAVE TO CONVINCE THE NEW YORK TIMES THAT THIS IS SERIOUS? There are lots of people alive who could tell the truth and expose credibly a lot of this, but they suffer incredible penalties. Their pensions would be confiscated, their livelihoods, they would be thrown in jail. There is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act which - you have to have a search warrant, you can show up in secret and have a federal agent search your house, tap your phone, monitor you, all without due process. It's designed for catching spies, but the question is: what is foreign intelligence? Would they consider trafficking in UFO documents foreign intelligence?
CLEARLY THAT HAS BEEN THE DEFINITION FOR A LONG TIME. You know, so it's very challenging situation to come forward with proof. I am reminded of President Bush's comments to Saddam Hussein when he talks about,
"complete and unfettered access to his weapons of mass destruction sites. And what I want is complete and unfettered access to the 631 vault in the National Archives. And with a team of archivists for 2 or 3 months to find the truth that they are hiding extraterrestrial reality."
More Information: The following is a partial excerpt of the lengthy and detailed information of a July 16, 1947, document from Headquarters Army Air Force Commanding General, Nathan Twining, to Commanding General Air Defense Command.
"This three page bureaucratic report provides the first glimpses of Lt. General Nathan F. Twining's Air Accident Report original published in Leonard Stringfield's (now deceased) Status Report VII, in 1994. Ryan Wood comments: "Twining apparently describes in first order detail the inside of a flying disc, everything from the typewriter-like keys that control the propulsion system to a thirty-five-foot-diameter doughnut shaped tube," possibly filled with heavy water. "The significance and consistency of the technical content has not been evaluated, although it is clear that the writing is consistent with 1947 state of the art, not modern."
"This three page bureaucratic report provides the first glimpses of Lt. General Nathan F. Twining's Air Accident Report original published in Leonard Stringfield's (now deceased) Status Report VII, in 1994.
Ryan Wood comments:
"Twining apparently describes in first order detail the inside of a flying disc, everything from the typewriter-like keys that control the propulsion system to a thirty-five-foot-diameter doughnut shaped tube," possibly filled with heavy water.
"The significance and consistency of the technical content has not been evaluated, although it is clear that the writing is consistent with 1947 state of the art, not modern."
"As ordered by Presidential Directive, dated 9 July 1947, a preliminary investigation of a recovered "Flying Disc" and remains of a possible second disc, was conducted by the senior staff of this command. The data furnished in this report was provided by the engineer staff personnel of T-2 and Aircraft Laboratory, Engineering Division T.
Additional data was supplied by the scientific personnel of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, CIT and the Army Air Forces Scientific Advisory Group, headed by Dr. Theodore von Karman. Further analysis was conducted by personnel from Research and Development.
It is the collective view of this investigative body, that the aircraft recovered by the Army and Air Force units near Victorio Peak and Socorro, New Mexico, are not of U.S. manufacture for the following reasons:
The circular, disc-shaped 'planform' design does not resemble any design currently under development by this command nor of any Navy project.
The lack of any external propulsion system, power plant, intake, exhaust either for propeller or jet propulsion, warrants this view.
The inability of the German scientists from Fort Bliss and White Sands Proving Ground to make a positive identification of a secret German V weapon out of these discs. Though the possibility that the Russians have managed to develop such a craft remains. The lack of any markings, ID numbers or instructions in Cyrillic, has placed serious doubt in the minds of many, that the objects recovered are not of Russian manufacture either.
Upon examination of the interior of the craft, a compartment exhibiting a possible atomic engine was discovered. At least this is the opinion of Dr. Oppenheimer and Dr. von Karman. A possibility exists that part of the craft itself comprises the propulsion system; thus, allowing the reactor to function as a heat exchanger and permitting the storage of energy into a substance for later use. This may allow the converting of mass into energy, unlike the release of energy of our atomic bombs.
The description of the power room is as follows:
A doughnut shaped tube approximately thirty-five feet in diameter, made of what appears to be a plastic material, surrounding a central core. This tube was translucent, approximately one inch thick. The tube appeared to be filled with a clear substance, possibly a heavy water. A large rod, centered inside the tube, was wrapped in a coil of what appears to be of copper material, ran through the circumference of the tube. This may be the reactor control mechanism or a storage battery. There were no moving parts discernible within the (words obscured here).
This activation of a electrical potential is believed to be the primary power to the reactor, though it is only a theory at present. Just how a heavy water reactor functions in this environment is unknown.
Underneath the power plant, was discovered a ball-turret, approximately ten feet in diameter. This turret was encompassed by a series of gears that has a unusual ratio not known by any of our engineers. On the underside of the turret were four circular cavities, coated with some smooth material not identified. These cavities are symmetrical, but seem to be movable. Just how is not known. The movement of the turret coincides with the dome-shaped cupola compartment above the power room. It is believed that the main propulsion system is a bladeless turbine, similar to current development now underway at AMC and the Mogul Project. A possible theory was devised by Dr. August Steinhoff (a Paperclip scientist), Dr. Werner von Braun and Dr. Theodore von Karman as the craft moves through the air, it somehow draws the oxygen from the atmosphere and by a induction process, generates a atomic fusion reaction (see TAB 2). The air outside the craft would be ionized, thus propelling the craft forward. Coupled with the circular air foil for lift, the craft would presumably have an unlimited range and air speed. This may account for the reported absence of any noise and the apparent blue flame often associated with rapid acceleration.
On the deck of the power room, there are what resembles typewriter keys, possibly reactor/powerplant controls. There were no conventional electronics nor wiring to be seen connecting these controls to the propulsion turret.
There is a flight deck located inside the cupola section. It is round and domed at the top. The absence of canopy, observation windows/blisters, or any optical projection, lends support to the opinion that this craft is either guided by remote viewing or is remotely controlled.
A semi-circular photo-tube array (possibly television).
Crew compartments were hermetically sealed via a solidification process.
No weld marks, rivets or soldered joints.
Craft components appear to be molded and pressed into a perfect fit."
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The Majestic Documents
Return to The Saga of Flying Objects
Return to Eisenhower's 1954 Meeting With Extraterrestrials
