# Project PaperClip and The Space Race

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_paperclip03.htm

by J.Marrs
extracted from "Secret Societies That Threaten to Take Over America"
2008
from Archive Website
ON MAY 19, 1945, JUST TWELVE DAYS AFTER GERMANYS unconditional surrender, Herbert Wagner, creator of the first Nazi guided missile used in combat, landed in Washington, D.C., in a U.S. military aircraft with blacked- out windows. Wagner was the first of a stream of Nazi scientists, technicians, and others to arrive in the United States in a program that came to be known as Project Paperclip. It began as Operation Overcast, a program authorized by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to exploit the knowledge of Nazi scientists. (Overcast was mentioned but not clearly explained in the 2006 film The Good German starring George Clooney.)
This operation was renamed Paperclip and formally authorized in August 1945 by President Harry Truman, who was assured that no one with Nazi or militaristic records would be involved. By mid-November, more Nazi scientists, engineers, and technicians were arriving in America, including Wernher von Braun and more than seven hundred other Nazi rocket scientists. By 1955, nearly a thousand German scientists had been granted citizenship in the United States and given prominent positions in the American scientific community. Many had been longtime members of the Nazi Party and the Gestapo, had conducted experiments on humans at concentration camps, used slave labor, and committed other war crimes. Von Braun, who in later years became the head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), is one of the more recognizable names of the Paperclip scientists.
Others included:
Major General Walter Dornberger, a close associate of von Brauns Werner Heisenberg, physicist and Nobel laureate who founded quantum mechanics gaseous uranium centrifuge expert Dr. Paul Harteck Nazi atomic bomb physicist and military project leader Kurt Diebner uranium enrichment expert Erich Bagge 1944 Nobel Prize winner Otto Hahn, called the father of nuclear chemistry scientists Carl Friedrich von Weizsaecker, Karl Wirtz, and Horst Korsching physicist Walter Gerlach
Major General Walter Dornberger, a close associate of von Brauns
Werner Heisenberg, physicist and Nobel laureate who founded quantum mechanics
gaseous uranium centrifuge expert Dr. Paul Harteck
Nazi atomic bomb physicist and military project leader Kurt Diebner
uranium enrichment expert Erich Bagge
1944 Nobel Prize winner Otto Hahn, called the father of nuclear chemistry
scientists Carl Friedrich von Weizsaecker, Karl Wirtz, and Horst Korsching
physicist Walter Gerlach
CNN reporter Linda Hunts 1991 book Secret Agenda: The United States Government, Nazi Scientists, and Project Paperclip, 19451990 first revealed the extent to which Nazi infiltration was aided by persons within the U.S. federal government and military.
Like other researchers, Hunt found many government files pertaining to recruited Nazis missing or otherwise unavailable. Despite government claims that Paperclip was ended in 1947, according to Hunt, this project was,
the biggest, longest-running operation involving Nazis in our countrys history.The project continued nonstop until 1973 - decades longer than was previously thought. And remnants of it are still in operation today, she wrote.
By the 1990s, when details of Paperclip finally reached the publics ears, the infusion of Nazis into Americas military-industrial complex was complete. IN 1952 , NEWLY elected President Dwight D. Eisenhower was persuaded to name John Foster Dulles as his secretary of state, and his brother, Allen Dulles, as the director of the CIA.
The reigning Dulles brothers were the Republican replacements for their client and business partner, Democrat Averell Harriman. Occasional public posturing aside, their strategic commitments [to the globalists] were identical to his, stated authors Webster Griffin Tarpley and Anton Chaitkin in their well-documented 1992 Unauthorized Biography of George H. W. Bush.
It should be noted that the Dulles brothers were both attorneys for and business partners with Averell Harriman.
It should also be noted that Allen Dulles, as OSS station chief in Bern, Switzerland, sat at the nexus of U.S. intelligence as well as Soviet intelligence, such as the infamous Rote Kapelle, or Red Orchestra, spy network. It was during his stint as assistant to the U.S. ambassador that Dulles used SS Brigadefuehrer, or brigadier general, Walter Schellenberg to communicate with his immediate superior, Reichsfuehrer Heinrich Himmler.
Dulles constantly sent intelligence reports to Washington, although, as stated by Adam LeBor,
there are questions as to whether his motive was supplying genuine economic intelligence or merely building a complicated empire of information and disinformation that reached from Bern to Berlin and back again.
Dulles moved from Bern to become OSS station chief in Berlin at the end of the war. In 1947, when the OSS was rolled into the newly created CIA, Dulless translator was an army intelligence officer named Henry Kissinger, who would go on to become secretary of state under President Richard Nixon, a lifelong friend to Dulles.Project Paperclip quickly came under the control of an old boy network encompassing members of the globalists centered in the Council on Foreign Relations.After its inception, Paperclip was run by the intelligence division of the U.S. Armys European Command, directed by Robert Walsh operating out of Berlin.
The Paperclip office operated out of the intelligence divisions headquarters in Heidelberg, under Deputy Director Colonel Robert Schow, who would become assistant director of the CIA in 1949 and assistant chief of staff for intelligence in 1956, Hunt wrote in Secret Agenda.
She added that officers of the Joint Intelligence Objectives Agency (JIOA) who managed Project Paperclip soon began receiving security reports from Schows office, regarding the Germans recruited into the program. All reports on these men had been altered from a determination of ardent Nazi to read not an ardent Nazi.After assuming the directorship of the newly created CIA, Allen Dulles, who, as attorney for the Shroeder bank, had brokered the deals allowing Hitlers rise to power, assumed control over Project Paperclip and increased the flow of National Socialists into the United States.After former Nazi spymaster General Reinhard Gehlen met with the CIA director Dulles and offered to turn over his extensive spy network to the CIA in exchange for non-prosecution of their Nazi pasts, the scientists dossiers were rewritten to eliminate incriminating evidence of their work for the Nazis.
For over forty years ... Paperclips dark secrets lay safely hidden in cover-ups, lies, and deceit, stated Hunt.
Hunt uncovered documents showing that even Wernher von Braun, who in 1947 had been described as a potential security threat by the military governor, was reassessed only months later in a report stating, he may not constitute a security threat to the U.S.
Likewise, von Brauns brother, Magnus, who had been declared a dangerous German Nazi by counterintelligence officers, was brought to America and his pro-Nazi record expunged.
The effect of the cover-up involved far more than merely whitewashing the information in the dossiers, noted Hunt. Serious allegations of crimes not only were expunged from the records, but were never even investigated.
In a 1985 exposé in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Hunt wrote that she had examined more than 130 reports on Project Paperclip subjects - and every one had been changed to eliminate the security threat classification. President Truman, who had explicitly ordered no committed Nazis to be admitted under Project Paperclip, was evidently never aware that his directive had been violated.
Again, this is evidence of control at a level higher than the president.By the late 1940s, the now-ascendant Cold War added new impetus. Potential intelligence assets were recruited from all across Europe, many of them zealous Nazis who could be relied upon to be anticommunists. In an effort to avoid the negative publicity that had burdened some of the early Paperclip activities - some Americans just did not think it proper to bring former Nazis to the United States and place them in responsible positions - JIOA officers began bringing Nazis from Argentina, that haven for the Bormann organization.According to Hunt, all of this activity was almost totally unknown to the public but rested in the hands of certain top-ranking government officials like the Dulles brothers and John J. McCloy.
The agenda of the globalists was moving ahead.Paperclip had several spin-off projects. Expanding on Paperclip, the National Interest program was tightly connected to the new CIA and provided a means of bypassing close scrutiny by anti-Nazi elements within military intelligence.
No longer were Nazi scientists the sole objective; recruitment of Nazis now included Eastern Europeans thought to be helpful against the communists, and even convicted Nazi war criminals. Anyone, regardless of their past, was eligible as long as someone within the U.S. government deemed their presence in the national interest.
Linda Hunt wrote:
Prevailing myth has it that the first group in National Interest, the German scientists, were employed solely because of their scientific expertise, but there were other reasons as well. First, defense contractors and universities could hire German scientists for substantially less money than they could American employees. Salary statistics show that the Germans signed contracts for approximately $2,000 a year less than their American counterparts received in comparable positions. Of course, the Germans were unaware of the salary discrepancy, since they had earned even less money in West Germany. The JIOA, however, took advantage of the situation by promoting cheap salaries to convince corporations to participate in the project. Second, because of the Joint Chiefs of Staff connection with the National Interest project, German scientists could obtain necessary security clearances more easily than could American scientists. Defense contractors looking for new employees to work on classified projects found this aspect of National Interest to be particularly advantageous. By 1957, more than sixty companies were listed on JIOAs rosters, including Lockheed, W. R. Grace and Company, CBS Laboratories, and Martin Marietta...
Prevailing myth has it that the first group in National Interest, the German scientists, were employed solely because of their scientific expertise, but there were other reasons as well. First, defense contractors and universities could hire German scientists for substantially less money than they could American employees.
Salary statistics show that the Germans signed contracts for approximately $2,000 a year less than their American counterparts received in comparable positions. Of course, the Germans were unaware of the salary discrepancy, since they had earned even less money in West Germany. The JIOA, however, took advantage of the situation by promoting cheap salaries to convince corporations to participate in the project.
Second, because of the Joint Chiefs of Staff connection with the National Interest project, German scientists could obtain necessary security clearances more easily than could American scientists. Defense contractors looking for new employees to work on classified projects found this aspect of National Interest to be particularly advantageous.
By 1957, more than sixty companies were listed on JIOAs rosters, including Lockheed, W. R. Grace and Company, CBS Laboratories, and Martin Marietta...
National Interest placed German scientists at major universities in research or teaching positions, regardless of their Nazi pasts.
Even the U.S. Office of Education helped JIOA send fliers to universities all over the country touting the advantages of hiring the Germans on federally financed research projects, since they could obtain security clearances more easily than Americans. The University of Texas, Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, and Boston University were among the participants.It should be noted that Yale University, alma mater of the Bush and Harriman families and home of Skull and Bones, also received Paperclip Nazis as employees.Another program, code-named simply Project 63, was designed specifically to get German scientists out of Europe and away from the Soviets.
Most went to work for universities or defense contractors, not the U.S. government, noted Hunt. Thus the American taxpayer footed the bill for a project to help former Nazis obtain jobs with Lockheed, Martin Marietta, North American Aviation, and other defense contractors during a time when many American engineers in the aircraft industry were being laid off .
Most went to work for universities or defense contractors, not the U.S. government, noted Hunt.
Thus the American taxpayer footed the bill for a project to help former Nazis obtain jobs with Lockheed, Martin Marietta, North American Aviation, and other defense contractors during a time when many American engineers in the aircraft industry were being laid off .
The Project 63 effort to import Nazis grew so public - in 1952, JIOA deputy director Air Force colonel Gerold Crabbe and a gaggle of military officers, Paperclip members, and civilians journeyed to West Germany on a recruitment drive - that even McCloy expressed concern over a violent reaction by West German officials.
West Germans complained to U.S. ambassador James Conant, demanding that Paperclip be ended.
Conant appealed to then secretary of state John Foster Dulles to shut down Paperclip,
before we are faced with a formal complaint by the West German government against a continuing U.S. recruitment program which has no parallel in any other Allied country.
But the project was not stopped. As usual, there was simply a name change. Paperclip became the Defense Scientists Immigration Program (DEFSIP). Conant may not have realized his appeal was aimed at one of the architects of the very program he was trying to end.As the Paperclip project began to lose momentum, yet another stimulus arose. On October 4, 1957, the Russians launched Sputnik I into orbit around the Earth and the space race was on. The Nazi scientists were in demand more than ever.Paperclip again began to grow.
Specialists were imported from Germany, Austria, and other countries under Project 63 and National Interest and gained positions at many universities and defense contractors, including Duke University, RCA, Bell Laboratories, Douglas Aircraft , and Martin Marietta.
Information about the number of defectors and other individuals brought in by the CIA and military intelligence agencies is unknown, since JIOA records concerning them were either shredded or pulled during the FBIs investigation in 1964, noted Hunt, adding, It had taken the greatest war in history to put a stop to an unspeakable evil, and now the cutting edge of that nightmare was being transplanted to America.
Interestingly, even as we were bringing foreign defectors into the USA, we discovered a traitor within our own government.
Lieutenant Colonel William Henry Whalen, who from 1957 served as deputy director of JIOA, the agency that commanded Paperclip, became the highest-ranking American ever recruited as a mole by the Soviet intelligence service. Only four months after he began spying for the Soviets, Whalen was promoted to the directorship of JIOA.
When arrested in 1962, Whalen was an intelligence adviser, which permitted him access to any information pertaining to the Joint Chiefs of Staff planning and allocation of military forces, including communications and electronic intelligence-gathering.Whalen, who suffered from alcoholism and debt, was recruited by the Soviets in the mid-1950s by Colonel Sergei Edemski, a loquacious Soviet military attaché in Washington, D.C.
Although it became publicly known that Whalen admitted providing the Communists with our utmost secrets concerning U.S. nuclear weaponry and strategies, his connection with Paperclip was not revealed.
Yet, author Hunt raised a relevant question about Whalen by asking,
Did he use blackmail to recruit a spy or saboteur from among the approximately 1,600 Paperclip specialists and hundreds of other JIOA recruits brought to this country since 1945? It certainly is clear from the evidence that many of them had a lot to hide.
Though charged with espionage, in 1966 Whalen made a deal with the Justice Department, in which he pled guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for his cooperation. Federal judge Oren Lewis, while accusing Whalen of selling me and all your fellow Americans down the river, nevertheless sentenced the spy to a mere fifteen years in prison.
He was paroled after serving only six years. But it was not just homegrown spies like Whalen who were slipping information out of Paperclip. Imported Nazis had every opportunity to pass national security information out of the country. According to Hunt, there was no further army surveillance over the Nazi Paperclip specialists after just four months of their signing a contract with the U.S. government.
Furthermore, anyone receiving any more than 50 percent support from a Paperclip specialist constituted a dependent, according to their contracts.
The large number of so- called dependents - including mistresses and maids - brought to Fort Bliss [Texas] as a result of [this situation] were subject to no off-the-post surveillance, even though it was assumed that they had access to at least some classified information because of their close contact with Paperclip personnel, wrote Hunt.
Incidents of information being passed out of Paperclip were presented to authorities, yet nothing was done.
A Fort Bliss businessman reported Paperclip engineer Hans Lindenmayr to the FBI, claiming the German had been using his business address as an illegal letter drop.
According to Hunt, at least three other Nazis maintained illegal mail drops in El Paso,
where they received money from foreign or unknown sources and coded messages from South America.
It was also learned that many Paperclip Nazis received cash from foreign sources.
Neither Army CIC not FBI agents knew where that money came from, and by all appearances, no one cared to know how more than a third of the Paperclip group suddenly were able to buy expensive cars, noted Hunt.
When word was passed that Nazi scientists working for the French were suspected of receiving orders from Germany to work toward a reemergence of the Reich, army intelligence officers finally began to take a closer look at Paperclip. Amazingly, the biggest catch was Wernher von Braun. It was revealed that at the end of the war, the rocket scientist had been caught sending a map overseas to General Dornberger and concealing information from U.S. officials.
Further investigation revealed that Paperclip specialists were allowed to make unsupervised trips off base and even out of town, the only requirement being that they report when they arrived at their destination. Several had their own telephones that were never monitored. President Truman was once notified by the CIA that the Nazi scientists working for the Soviets were using a postal address in the U.S. sector of West Germany as a cover for communications with the Paperclip scientists in America.
One General Electric manager working with Paperclip specialists told the FBI that the Armys lax security at White Sands Proving Grounds bordered on criminal neglect, especially since about 350 of the Germans former coworkers were serving the Russians. He believed that it was reasonable to assume that friendly contacts between the two groups still existed.Apparently, overseas communication between the Nazis in America and the Nazis in Russia continued unabated, which has raised the possibility of a parallel space race controlled or manipulated by the very globalists who had created and financed both communism and the Third Reich.Almost everyone who was of age in 1969 recalls vividly the pride and excitement of the U.S. Apollo missions moon landing on July 20. It is difficult then for them to seriously consider the many contradictions and anomalies of the six moon landings.
What may be even more difficult is to consider that the space race was never a true competition between the United States and the former Soviet Union; rather, it was a combined space program run by Nazi scientists and controlled by high-level globalists.As the Allies closed in on Nazi Germany in the spring of 1945, top American commanders were given orders to leave all the rockets and their plans at the Nazi facility at Nordhausen for the Russians. However, some commanders unofficially absconded with about a hundred V-2s, along with a large collection of plans, manuals, and other documents.
According to one American officer,
We gave the Russians the key to Sputnik... [F]or ten weeks, the American army had in its hands the rocket plant that gave the Russians their head start in the missile race.
Here was more evidence of the collusion taking place at the level of the globalists who were already directing activities that would lead to the Cold War.After the war, at NASAs George C. Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, the Nazi rocket scientists established nearly a carbon copy of their organization at the wartime secret Nazi rocket facility at Peenemunde.
According to Linda Hunt, James Webb, NASA administrator during the Kennedy years, complained that the Nazi scientists were circumventing the system to the extent of attempting to build their own Saturn V rocket in-house at the Marshall Center.
... the Germans dominated the rocket program to such an extent that they held the chief and deputy slots of every major division and laboratory. And their positions at Marshall and the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida, were similar to those they had held during the war, wrote Hunt. The Peenemunde teams leader, Wernher von Braun, became the first director of the Marshall Space Center; Mittlewerks head of production, Arthur Rudolph, was named project director of the Saturn V rocket program; Peenemundes V-2 flight test director, Kurt Debus, was the first director of the Kennedy Space Center.
... the Germans dominated the rocket program to such an extent that they held the chief and deputy slots of every major division and laboratory. And their positions at Marshall and the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida, were similar to those they had held during the war, wrote Hunt.
The Peenemunde teams leader, Wernher von Braun, became the first director of the Marshall Space Center; Mittlewerks head of production, Arthur Rudolph, was named project director of the Saturn V rocket program; Peenemundes V-2 flight test director, Kurt Debus, was the first director of the Kennedy Space Center.
Rudolph, who gained American citizenship after entering the USA with his boss von Braun under the program that was to become Paperclip, was credited with helping to place Americans on the moon.
He retired with a NASA pension in 1979 but was stripped of his American citizenship in 1983, after he conceded to the Justice Department that he had,
participated under the direction of and on behalf of the Nazi government of Germany, in the persecution of unarmed civilians because of their race, religion, national origin, or political opinion.
However, a West German investigation of Rudolph stated there was no factual basis for charging him with war crimes and granted him German citizenship.
Several Americans, including Lieutenant Colonel William E. Winterstein Sr., who was commander of the Technical Service Unit at Fort Bliss, Texas, which supported the German scientists, claimed Rudolph was railroaded by the Justice Departments Office of Special Investigations, some members of which had the full cooperation of the Soviet Union; therefore, close coordination with the KGB.As recently released files from behind the Iron Curtain have revealed, many of the scientists in Paperclip as well as some on the Manhattan Project indeed were spying for the Soviet Union. Their motivations were many. Some spied for pay, some for ideology, but all were manipulated by intelligence chiefs far above them.The flow of information between the scientists in the Soviet Union and the United States has led some researchers to suspect that a covert space program - a third program - was in effect.
Joseph P. Farrell, who holds a doctorate degree in patristics (the study of early christian writers and their work) from the University of Oxford, also has researched ancient history and physics, to include the space program.
In his 2004 book Reich of the Black Sun, Farrell wrote,
[I]t is perhaps significant that some contemporary observers of the American space program and its odd thirty-year-long holding pattern and tapestry of inconsistencies, lies and obfuscations have long suspected that there are indeed two space programs inside the U.S. government, the public NASA one, and a quasi-independent one based deep within covert and black projects.
This idea is somewhat supported by the fact that the space programs of Russia and America moved along different paths.
At the start, the Russians proved more capable of attaining space flight than the Americans. Under the leadership of their brilliant engineer Sergei Korolev, the Russians produced giant heavy-lift rockets while their American counterparts were busy developing the internal technology for guidance and control.The Soviet Russians were first:
to launch a satellite, Sputnik, into Earths orbit (1957) to orbit a man, Colonel Yuri Gagarin, and return him safely (1961) to place a live animal, the dog Laika (1957), and Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman into orbit (1963) to land unmanned vehicles on the moon (1970) to conduct an extravehicular space walk by cosmonauts to place nuclear warheads on Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM)
to launch a satellite, Sputnik, into Earths orbit (1957)
to orbit a man, Colonel Yuri Gagarin, and return him safely (1961)
to place a live animal, the dog Laika (1957), and Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman into orbit (1963)
to land unmanned vehicles on the moon (1970)
to conduct an extravehicular space walk by cosmonauts
to place nuclear warheads on Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM)
Both nations used captured Nazi V-2 rockets to begin their space programs. A common joke in the 1950s involved an argument between a Russian and an American.
Our German scientists are better than your German scientists, they shouted at each other.
Yet, the evidence indicates that the American rocket scientists were indeed placed into a holding pattern while their Soviet counterparts caught up with their technology.
William E. Winterstein Sr., a retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel and one of the rocket engineers on NASAs Apollo team, noted in his 2002 book Gestapo USA,
The space history of this country reveals that during the 1950s, the von Braun team had developed a multistage rocket by adding solid propellant rocket stages to a Redstone rocket as booster. In 1956, such a rocket with two solid stages made successful high- speed rocket reentry tests with model warheads covered with ablative heat protection. With three solid stages, such a rocket could have placed a satellite into orbit more than a year before the U.S. was defeated by Sputnik. However, and almost unbelievably, the von Braun team was given direct orders from Washington to stop further development. The team was restricted to the development of rockets whose range was less than 200 miles. It was only after President Kennedy announced the lunar mission in 1961 that the German rocket team was finally released from agonizing bureaucratic blunders from Washington, and was given a free hand, and even orders, to accomplish von Brauns lifelong goal to travel into space.
The space history of this country reveals that during the 1950s, the von Braun team had developed a multistage rocket by adding solid propellant rocket stages to a Redstone rocket as booster. In 1956, such a rocket with two solid stages made successful high- speed rocket reentry tests with model warheads covered with ablative heat protection.
With three solid stages, such a rocket could have placed a satellite into orbit more than a year before the U.S. was defeated by Sputnik. However, and almost unbelievably, the von Braun team was given direct orders from Washington to stop further development. The team was restricted to the development of rockets whose range was less than 200 miles.
It was only after President Kennedy announced the lunar mission in 1961 that the German rocket team was finally released from agonizing bureaucratic blunders from Washington, and was given a free hand, and even orders, to accomplish von Brauns lifelong goal to travel into space.
It has been argued that a primary incentive of the German scientists was the sheer desire to continue their work.
Some of these would stop at nothing, even resorting to duping their colleagues and superiors in order to ensure the continuance of their research, commented British authors Mary Bennett and David S. Percy.
However, in some cases, such as that of von Braun, the connection between the work and the Nazis was close and continuous. Von Braun, the son of a well- connected Prussian minister who founded the German Savings Bank, was brought into Germanys rocket program by Luftwaffe general Walter Dornberger, who, although charged as a war criminal for the rocket attacks on London and Antwerp, was never brought to trial.
Instead, he came into the United States as part of Project Paperclip.
Likewise, von Braun, revered as the father of the U.S. space program, was found to have been a Nazi Party member, a member of the SS with the rank of major, a friend to SS Reichsfuehrer Heinrich Himmler, and, according to Linda Hunt, was accused by survivors of the rocket factories at Mittlewerk and Peenemunde of at least once ordering the execution of slave laborers.
Kurt Debus, who became the first director of the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, was both a member of the Nazi SS and the SA. According to documents obtained by Hunt, in 1942 Debus turned a colleague over to the Gestapo for making anti-Hitler remarks.The Soviet manner of dealing with their Nazi scientists greatly differed from the laxity of Project Paperclip.
With hindsight, it would seem that the Soviets demonstrated a more humanitarian approach toward their technical prisoners than did the Americans, noted Bennett and Percy. Moreover, the way in which the technical information was passed from teacher to pupil was very different. The Soviet experts and the Germans worked side by side in the same factory, but in separate areas. Information was passed between these teams without the Germans ever meeting their Soviet counterparts. They only spoke directly to Korolev, who was far curter with them than he had been in Bleicherode [the V-2 test area in Germanys Harz Mountains, where Korolev had first debriefed the scientists at wars end].
With hindsight, it would seem that the Soviets demonstrated a more humanitarian approach toward their technical prisoners than did the Americans, noted Bennett and Percy.
Moreover, the way in which the technical information was passed from teacher to pupil was very different. The Soviet experts and the Germans worked side by side in the same factory, but in separate areas. Information was passed between these teams without the Germans ever meeting their Soviet counterparts. They only spoke directly to Korolev, who was far curter with them than he had been in Bleicherode [the V-2 test area in Germanys Harz Mountains, where Korolev had first debriefed the scientists at wars end].
Some serious researchers have opined that the space programs of both the USSR and the USA, despite the political posturing, were actually the same program, one far ahead of the current joint Russian-American space efforts such as the International Space Station.
This [overall] project was conceived and designed as a collaboration between two superpowers, wrote Bennett and Percy. The Cold War was a convenient cover under which aspects of this program could be implemented and hidden. All these machinations were orchestrated at the very highest level, with only a select and hidden few ever knowing the overall objectives of the project.
This [overall] project was conceived and designed as a collaboration between two superpowers, wrote Bennett and Percy.
The Cold War was a convenient cover under which aspects of this program could be implemented and hidden. All these machinations were orchestrated at the very highest level, with only a select and hidden few ever knowing the overall objectives of the project.
As noted by Farrell,
This, of course, implies some entity or agency of coordination existing both within the Soviet Union and the United States.
If this were so, who were these hidden manipulators? To begin with, there were the German rocket scientists themselves. In 1945, Lieutenant Walter Jessel was assigned to investigate how much trust to give the scientists before bringing them to America.
According to author Hunt, the lieutenant,
uncovered evidence of a conspiracy among von Braun, Dornberger, and Dornbergers former chief of staff , Herbert Axster, to withhold information from U.S. officers.
Secret codicils within the 1945 Yalta Agreement between Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin allowed for the partitioning of Europe between the Allied powers.Dr. Wilhelm Voss, the former head of the Skoda Munitions Works in Pilsen, had handled much of the material for Kammlers Kammlerstab Special Projects Group. In May 1945, when elements of the American Army arrived in the Czech city of Pilsen, Voss attempted to hand over a truckload of Kammlerstab documents but was told by the commandingU.S. officer that he was under orders to give everything to the Russians. While entire German divisions were trying desperately to surrender to the Western Allies, it is well known that Pattons Third Army had reached the outskirts of Berlin before being ordered back a hundred miles to await the arrival of the Russians, who were required to fight desperately for every block of the city. Such a withdrawal is clear evidence of the deals being made at the highest levels.As has been noted, there was communication between the two groups of Nazi scientists even though they were half a world away from each other. This could have been facilitated by the interconnected business and banking interests already described.As detailed in the section Communism versus National Socialism the same Western bankers and financiers who funded Hitlers National Socialism also supported Communism in Russia. The U.S. federal governments leniency toward communism has been well documented, beginning with President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who began his career as a Wall Street attorney specializing in corporate law.
Roosevelt echoed his Wall Street cronies warm regard for both Stalin and communism.
According to historian Thomas Fleming, the U.S. government was rife with globalist agents conveying secrets back to Russia.
There was scarcely a branch of the American government, including the War, Navy, and Justice Departments, that did not have Soviet moles in high places, feeding Moscow information. [William] Wild Bill Donovans Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the CIA, had so many informers in its ranks, it was almost an arm of the NKVD. Donovans personal assistant, Duncan Chaplin Lee, was a spy, Fleming wrote.
Another possible crossing point for aerospace information may have been the British Interplanetary Society (BIS), according to Bennett and Percy. While the BIS was reportedly created in September 1945 by combining several existing organizations interested in the future of space exploration, it was not officially inaugurated until December of that year.At that time, Wernher von Braun, the man behind the V-2 rockets, was named as an honorary fellow.
Arthur C. Clarke, an early member of the BIS, claimed the society had been in existence long before the war and was merely in suspended animation from 1939 to 1945.Noting that the Soviet embassy in London subscribed to no less than twenty copies of the bimonthly BIS journal, Bennett and Percy asked,
Why was it necessary to reform a society already in existence? Why did the British hasten to grant such an award to the man who only nine months before [as technical director of the Nazi V-1 and V-2 rocket programs], was responsible for the annihilation of so many people in London and the Home Counties? Why did both the British (and von Braun) wish to play down the real timing, if everybody felt comfortable with the reasons for honoring [von Braun]?
Why was it necessary to reform a society already in existence?
Why did the British hasten to grant such an award to the man who only nine months before [as technical director of the Nazi V-1 and V-2 rocket programs], was responsible for the annihilation of so many people in London and the Home Counties?
Why did both the British (and von Braun) wish to play down the real timing, if everybody felt comfortable with the reasons for honoring [von Braun]?
Their insinuation is that valuable rocket technology information was passed along via the BIS, possibly with the approval of von Braun.President Eisenhower, aware of the American publics concern that the Soviets might be winning the space race, ordered a Manhattan Project approach to the problem. This mandate resulted in a structure that became compartmentalized and shrouded with secrecy. All relevant information was on a strictly need to know basis, controlled by members of the self-styled globalist elite, the plutocrats who owned the emerging multinational corporations.To fully understand how this control over parallel space programs worked, one must look past the Eisenhower administration and study the National Security Act of 1947.On September 15 of that year - only three months after pilot Kenneth Arnold saw flying discs over Mount Rainier, and just two months after something crashed near Roswell, New Mexico - President Harry S. Truman signed into law the National Security Act of 1947, which, among other things, created the National Security Council (NSC) and the Air Force as a separate branch of service, united the military branches under a Department of Defense, and created Americas first peacetime civilian intelligence organization, the Central Intelligence Agency.An important example of the tight inner government control by secret society members may be found in the NSC, which has come to dominate U.S. policy decisions, including the use of armed force. Most Americans have no idea who exactly comprises the powerful NSC.
The council principals are the president, vice president, and secretaries of state and defense, positions predominantly held throughout the later twentieth century by members of the globalist societies, the Council on Foreign Relations, or the Trilateral Commission. The NSC staff is directed by the presidents national security adviser.
To coordinate covert operations, the NSC created the 5412 Committee, also called the Special Group, which has changed names several times to avoid public exposure. In 1964, it was known as the 303 Committee and in 1970 it was renamed the 40 Committee.
Within this organization - which included such familiar names as Nelson Rockefeller, Robert McNamara, McGeorge Bundy, Gordon Gray, and Allen Dulles - was a subcommittee dealing with science and technology. It is here that the connection between the corporate and financial world and government-held technological secrets may be found.
Here is centered control over rocketry, space, alternative energy sources, and even UFOs. And it is here that researchers have tracked the mysterious group known as Majic Twelve, later known as Majestic Twelve or simply MJ-12.The MJ-12 issue was first publicly raised in 1984 when a TV producer and UFO researcher received an undeveloped roll of 35-mm black-and-white film in his mail. The film contained eight pages of what appeared to be official U.S. government documents stamped TOP SECRET/MAJIC EYES ONLY and dated November 18, 1952.
The pages were a briefing document prepared for president-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower, concerning Operation Majestic 12. There has been ongoing controversy over the legitimacy of these and the subsequent release of other MJ-12 documents, including a Standard Operations Manual (SOM 1-01) marked Top Secret/MAJIC, dated April 1954, and titled Extraterrestrial Entities and Technology, Recovery and Disposal.The documents listed twelve prominent men as members of Operation Majestic 12, a TOP SECRET Research and Development/Intelligence operation responsible directly and only to the President of the United States, who were to deal with the UFO issue at the highest level.
The papers went on to detail how a secret operation was begun on July 7, 1947, to recover the wreckage of a disc- shaped craft from a crash site,
approximately 75 miles northwest of Roswell Army Air Base. Also, four small human-like beings [who] had apparently ejected from the craft were found dead about two miles east of the wreckage site.
The document added,
Civilian and military witnesses in the area were debriefed, and news reporters were given the effective cover story that the object had been a misguided weather research balloon.
Later, when the weather balloon story became discredited, the story was changed to a Mogul balloon, used to monitor the upper atmosphere for Soviet A-bomb testing, though why such a monitoring device would be launched from New Mexico was never explained.The briefing papers ended by stating,
Implications for the National Security are of continuing importance in that the motives and ultimate intentions of these visitors remain completely unknown. In addition, a significant upsurge in the surveillance activity of these craft beginning in May and continuing through the autumn of [1952] has caused considerable concern that new developments may be imminent. It is for these reasons, as well as the obvious international and technological considerations and the ultimate need to avoid a public panic at all costs, that the Majestic-12 Group remains of the unanimous opinion that imposition of the strictest security precautions should continue without interruption into the new administration.
Implications for the National Security are of continuing importance in that the motives and ultimate intentions of these visitors remain completely unknown. In addition, a significant upsurge in the surveillance activity of these craft beginning in May and continuing through the autumn of [1952] has caused considerable concern that new developments may be imminent.
It is for these reasons, as well as the obvious international and technological considerations and the ultimate need to avoid a public panic at all costs, that the Majestic-12 Group remains of the unanimous opinion that imposition of the strictest security precautions should continue without interruption into the new administration.
These MJ-12 documents created a storm of controversy within the UFO research community.
Debunkers claimed to have found all sorts of discrepancies - from misspellings to identical signatures. However, no one has been able to definitively disprove all the MJ-12 documents as fakes and, in fact, there is much evidence to indicate their authenticity.
For example, Dr. Robert M. Wood, who managed research and development at McDonnell Douglas for forty-three years, found that the typeface and style of the SOM 1-01 manual matched that of U.S. government printing presses in use during the 1950s. If the information in the MJ-12 documents is proven correct, it is strong evidence that certain persons within the United States had access to remarkable technology, both taken at Roswell and similar to that described as being in Nazi hands toward the end of the war.A cursory look at the men identified as the original MJ-12 group, as well as their corporate and intelligence connections, makes clear the potential for high-level control over exotic technology - groundbreaking technology that could upset the monopolies over energy, transportation, and communications held by the wealthy globalists who financed Hitler.
As listed in the documents, MJ-12 members included:
Administrator Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter, a 1919 graduate of the Naval Academy, who was familiar with both intelligence work and the Nazis, having worked undercover for a year in Vichy, France.
After serving as the third director of Central Intelligence Group, he became the first director of the CIA upon its formation in September 1947, obviously a good choice for a top- secret group like MJ-12.
After his retirement from government, Hillenkoetter joined the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private UFO group, and stated publicly that UFOs were real and through official secrecy and ridicule, many citizens are led to believe the unknown flying objects are nonsense.
Dr. Vannevar Bush, an eminent American scientist, who in 1941 organized the National Defense Research Council, and in 1943 the Office of Scientific Research and Development that led to the production of the first atomic bomb. Dr. Bush was another prime candidate for a high-level group dealing with space.
He also was a close friend to Averell Harriman, the U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union, who had ownership in Union Banking Corporation along with Prescott Bush. (It is reported that Vannevar Bush was unrelated to the political Bush family.)
In 1949, the U.S. Intelligence Board asked Bush to study ways of combining intelligence from all agencies. Bushs plan was initiated by Americas first secretary of defense, James V. Forrestal, who also is listed as an MJ-12 member. Bushs connections to the corporate world were deep and many. In 1922, Bush, along with his former roommate Laurence K. Marshall and scientist Charles G. Smith, formed American Appliance Company, today known as the powerful Raytheon Corporation heralded in its company literature as an industry leader in defense and government electronics, space, information technology, technical services and business aviation and special mission aircraft.
Bush joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as a professor in 1919, and in 1936 was awarded a major grant by the Rockefeller Foundation. His work during World War II resulted in the development of the Rockefeller Differential Analyzer, an analog mainframe computer composed of 2,000 vacuum tubes and 150 motors.
Bush also served on the board of directors of the Metals and Controls Corporation, which in 1959 merged with Texas Instruments to become the first U.S. governmentapproved fabricator of uranium rods. Bush also was a presence in the corporate world of pharmaceuticals, eventually becoming chairman of the board of Merck and Company, one of the worlds most powerful drug companies. Merck has been among the leaders in researching the human genome, the DNA structure that forms cells into humans.
Bush also was connected to the Carnegie wealth, serving as president of the Carnegie Institute from 1935 to 1955.
James V. Forrestal, who, prior to World War I, was a bond salesman for William A. Read and Company, later to become Dillon, Read and Company. After the war, he returned to Read and Company and by 1937 was named president.
This was at a time when Dillon and Read were the most profitable of all Wall Street syndicate managers handling German industrial issues in the U.S. capital market. In 1957, Fortune magazine named Clarence Dillon as one of the wealthiest men in America, with a fortune estimated to have been between $150 and $200 million.
Russell A. Nixon, the young attorney for the U.S. Military Government Cartel Unit who tried to break up the Nazi corporate syndicates at the end of the war, was blocked in his efforts by Brigadier General William H. Draper, who along with Forrestal was an officer of Dillon and Read.
According to Sutton,
Banker William Draper, as Brigadier General William Draper, put his control team together from businessmen who had represented American business in prewar Germany.
Forrestal also sat on the board of General Aniline and Film (GAF), a subsidiary of I.G. Farben with 91.5 percent ownership by the brother-in-law of Farben chairman Hermann Schmitz.
Heading GAF was Rudolf Ilgner, who near the outbreak of war offered the U.S. Army Agfa film at a low price for photographing the Panama Canal and other defense installations.
Ilgner has a sense of humor, noted Charles Higham, the New York Times writer who traced the Nazi- American money plot in his 1983 book Trading with the Enemy.
He gave the American government copies of the movies and still photographs and kept the originals, which were shipped via the Hamburg-Amerika steamship line [partly owned by Prescott Bush]. The president of this company was Julius P. Meyer, head of the Board of Trade for German-American Commerce, whose chairman was - Rudolf Ilgner.
Forrestal became secretary of defense in July 1947 - the time of the Roswell incident - but resigned in March 1949, a month before he reportedly committed suicide at Bethesda Naval Hospital. He claimed he was being followed by Zionist agents.
His MJ-12 position was permanently filled by General Walter B. Smith.
General Walter Bedell Smith, who had been Eisenhowers chief of staff and former U.S. ambassador to Moscow, replacing Averell Harriman. In 1950, Smith replaced Admiral Hillenkoetter as Director of Central Intelligence. Most intriguing was Smiths close relationship as friend and business partner with Prince Bern-hard of the Netherlands, the former SS officer who, with Smiths help, founded the secretive Bilderberg Group.
Before leaving for En gland prior to hostilities, the German-born Bernhard was employed in I.G. Farbens Intelligence Department, NM7.
General Nathan F. Twining, commander of the Air Material Command based at Wright-Patterson, who was already heavily involved in the UFO issue by the time of MJ-12. He had canceled a scheduled trip on July 8, 1947, due to a very important and sudden matter. This was the day the Roswell Air Base press release regarding the recovery of a flying saucer was issued.
UFO researcher William Moore claimed that Twining actually made a two-day trip to New Mexico. On September 23, 1945, just as the air force became a separate service, Twining sent a letter to the chief of staff of the Army Air Force, Brigadier General George Schulgen, who had requested information on flying discs. In a letter stamped SECRET, Twining began by stating without equivocation, The phenomenon reported is something real and not visionary or fictitious.
He recommended that a permanent group be established to study UFOs.
General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, a West Point graduate and military man, who served as U.S. Air Force chief of staff and Director of Central Intelligence. As a named MJ-12 member, Vanderberg did not appear to have solid Wall Street connections.
However, he was a close relative to the powerful U.S. senator Arthur Vandenberg, who served as president pro tempore of the Senate, third in line of succession to the presidency, and chaired the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. Senator Vandenberg also participated in the creation of the United Nations. In January 1945 the senator made headlines by announcing his conversion from isolationism to internationalism. As such, he orchestrated bipartisan support for the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan.
The Vandenberg Resolution, passed by the Senate in 1948, paved the way for mutual Allied security through the creation of NATO. In the early 1950s, it was General Vandenberg who ordered the destruction of the original Project Sign Air Force report stating that UFOs were real.
Many UFO researchers believe Vandenbergs role was to maintain security for MJ-12.
Dr. Detlev Bronk, a physiologist and biophysicist with international credentials, who chaired the National Research Council and was a member of the medical advisory board of the Atomic Energy Commission. From 1953 until 1968, he was president of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, during which time he was given a $600,000 mansion.
Bronk maintained a long correspondence with Vannevar Bush and also was on the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Brookhaven National Laboratory along with Dr. Edward Condon, who later debunked UFOs in a major UFO study for the Air Force.
Dr. Jerome Hunsaker, an aircraft designer, who chaired the departments of mechanical and aeronautical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics.
In 1933, the year Hitler came to power, Hunsaker became vice president of the Goodyear-Zeppelin Corporation, which manufactured airships that off ered passenger flights to various countries, including Germany, Brazil, and the USA. It should be noted that less than three months after the 1984 death of Dr. Hunsacker, the last survivor of those named in the MJ-12 documents, the disputed documents suddenly arrived at the home of a UFO researcher.
Many feel Hunsackers death may have signaled to someone in the official world that it was now permissible to leak the MJ-12 Eisenhower briefing document.
Sidney W. Souers, a retired rear admiral who in 1946 became the first Director of Central Intelligence, appointed by President Truman. He was executive secretary to the National Security Council in 1947 and remained a special consultant on security matters for a time after leaving that post. Souers also had a lifelong connection to American corporate business.
Between 1920 and his death in 1973, Souers held executive positions in the Mortgage and Securities Company of New Orleans, First Joint Stock Land Bank, the Canal Bank and Trust Company of New Orleans, the Aviation Company, and the General American Life Insurance Company.
Gordon Gray, an heir to the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company fortune, who was assistant secretary of the army in 1947, became secretary of the army in 1949, and a year later was named a special assistant on national security affairs to President Truman. After that, Gray was named director of the governments Psychological Strategy Board (PSB), established in 1951 to undertake disinformation and psychological warfare against enemies.
During his stint on the PSB, Grays chief consultant was Henry Kissinger, who was also a paid consultant to the Rockefellers. According to one source, Gray directed a psychological strategy study of UFOs, consulted by CIA director Walter B. Smith. Gray was also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations from the Truman through the Ford administrations.
He also was chairman of the board for the communications companies Piedmont Publishing Company, Triangle Broadcasting Company, and Summit Communications.
Dr. Donald Menzel, a director of the Harvard College Observatory, a respected astronomer who led a double life. He became a widely known debunker of UFOs after writing three books in which he explained away most reports and dismissed others, saying, All non-explained sightings are from poor observers.
However, physicist Stanton Friedman, after studying Menzels unpublished biography and interviewing his widow, discovered that Menzel had been a covert consultant for both the CIA and the NSA with a top-secret ultra security clearance.
This was verified in a letter Menzel wrote to President John F. Kennedy, in which he mentioned his intelligence work stating,
I have been associated with this activity for almost thirty years and probably have the longest continuous record of association with them.
Menzel also worked closely with the State Department, especially on Latin American affairs. Just before the outbreak of World War II, Menzel unsuccessfully tried to interest the Rockefeller Foundation and Howard Hughes in funding a high- altitude observatory at Boulder, Colorado.
In Menzel we find a man who, while publicly known simply as a notable astronomer, had intriguing and high-level intelligence connections.
General Robert M. Montegue, a military man with no known corporate links, who nevertheless was the base commander of Fort Bliss near El Paso, Texas, in 1947, during the time the Paperclip scientists worked there.
He also served as director of the Anti- aircraft and Guided Missile Branch of the armys Artillery School as well as commanding general of the Sandia Atomic Energy Commission facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, from July 1947 to February 1951. His responsibilities included security at the White Sands Proving Ground.
Montegue was at the center of the controversies concerning both the Roswell crash and the Paperclip scientists.
Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner, who worked under Vannevar Bush as executive secretary of the Joint Research and Development Board in 1946 and headed a study that resulted in the creation of the Weapons Systems Evaluation Group. Berkner was also a member of the 1952 CIA-sponsored panel headed by Dr. H. P. Robertson, which deflected public attention away from UFOs by concluding that they did not constitute any direct threat to national security.
Berkner was also president of Associated Universities, Incorporated (AUI), established in 1946 to acquire, plan, construct and operate laboratories and other facilities that would unite the resources of universities, other research organizations, and the federal government. Funding for the AUI came from such luminary institutions as Cornell, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, MIT, and Yale.
One of the institutions closely connected to the AUI is Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, long-rumored to be involved with both defense weaponry and UFOs.
These distinguished men appeared to have two things in common - they were all connected to the highest levels of the national security as well as American corporate business. They were also all dead at the time the MJ-12 papers surfaced, thus unable to answer any questions about their role, if any, in such a group. The agenda of this control group may have been best expressed by Senator Lyndon B. Johnson who, speaking to the Senate Democratic Caucus on January 7, 1958, stated,
Control of space means control of the world... From space, the masters of infinity would have the power to control the Earths weather, to cause drought and flood, to change the tides and raise the levels of the sea, to divert the Gulf Stream and change the climate to frigid... There is something more powerful than the ultimate weapon. That is the ultimate position - the position of total control over the Earth that lies somewhere in outer space... And if there is an ultimate position, then our national goal and the goal of all free men must be to win and hold that position.
Control of space means control of the world... From space, the masters of infinity would have the power to control the Earths weather, to cause drought and flood, to change the tides and raise the levels of the sea, to divert the Gulf Stream and change the climate to frigid... There is something more powerful than the ultimate weapon.
That is the ultimate position - the position of total control over the Earth that lies somewhere in outer space... And if there is an ultimate position, then our national goal and the goal of all free men must be to win and hold that position.
Johnson, who in 1954 became the youngest Senate majority leader in U.S. history, was in a position to serve those in both the military and the corporations. In 2007, President George W. Bush echoed Johnsons remarks by calling for new space missions and the weaponization of space. ADDING TO JOHNSONS puzzling statement about the masters of infinity are facts indicating an astounding connection between the well- documented occultism of the Nazis, the NASA space program, and the Soviet space program. Richard C. Hoagland, a former science adviser to Walter Cronkite and CBS News during the Apollo program, astounded conspiracy researchers in the 1990s with his assertion that the time and date of many NASA space launches, including the Apollo moon missions, were set to coincide with astrological alignments of the stars and planets.
In 1992, Hoagland briefed UN officials on the mathematical and geometric linkage connecting the sitting of Cydonia on Mars, the location of the Martian Pyramids and Face, with the Egyptian location of the pyramids and sphinx on Earth.
This remarkable new evidence that all is not as we have thought regarding NASA is distinctly different from the official NASA imagery that [I have] been analyzing for almost fifteen years, reported Hoagland. This new evidence is of a pattern [shown by] an official, undeniable log of NASA mission planning, mission priorities, and space agency decisions extending back to when the agency was officially formed by Act of Congress on July 29, 1958. This log has been carefully compiled from recorded network mission broadcasts from, among others, my old network - CBS; officially published NASA mission time lines; and documented testimonials of former NASA scientists.
This remarkable new evidence that all is not as we have thought regarding NASA is distinctly different from the official NASA imagery that [I have] been analyzing for almost fifteen years, reported Hoagland.
This new evidence is of a pattern [shown by] an official, undeniable log of NASA mission planning, mission priorities, and space agency decisions extending back to when the agency was officially formed by Act of Congress on July 29, 1958. This log has been carefully compiled from recorded network mission broadcasts from, among others, my old network - CBS; officially published NASA mission time lines; and documented testimonials of former NASA scientists.
According to Hoagland, these cross-correlated public records now provide firm evidence of an astonishing, official link between NASAs supposedly strictly scientific missions and millennia-old occult beliefs.
In fact, the original official NASA Apollo Lunar Program logo of the 1960s clearly depicted the belt in the constellation of Orion, long thought to represent Osiris, a central figure in Egyptian celestial mythology.
Curiously, immediately after the Apollo 13 accident, NASA quietly changed this official Apollo program logo - adding random stars to the existing constellation, thereby cleverly obscuring its direct derivation from Orion, noted Hoagland.
He concluded that the extraordinarily complex and expensive mission-planning for the entire Apollo Lunar Program, far from being merely represented by this interesting Egyptian mythological connection, was in fact completely controlled by, and designed around, this crucial Orion symbolism.
In other words, someone with enough authority to set the launch date and time for an Apollo space mission, as well as many others, was guided by the astrological alignment of the stars and planets rather than an objective scientific basis.
This occult aspect has been kept carefully hidden not only from the American taxpayers, who paid for these missions, but from the vast majority of NASA personnel as well.
"[I]magine the astonishment that you would feel if you learned that Apollo 11s historic lunar touchdown... took place at the one location on the entire lunar surface - Tranquillity - and within minutes out of an entire solar year (8:17 P.M. GMT, July 20, 1969), where and when Sirius, the brightest star in the sky, and the central stellar figure, Isis, in the Egyptian triumvirate of Isis, Osiris, and Horus, could have been seen hovering above the airless Eastern horizon - precisely at 19.5 degrees elevation!" said Hoagland.
Yet, this is exactly what happened. Mary Ann Weaver, a former Boeing engineer and computer professional, was intrigued by the data produced by Hoagland and his associate Michael Bara.
As a former researcher with the antenna division of Boeing, she was experienced in 3-D computer modeling, computational analysis, and developing equations and analytic methods for problem-solving. Weaver set out to confirm or deny the findings of Hoagland and Bara. After a careful study of their data, Weaver concluded that the star alignments for the mission activities and launches did not happen by accident.
[T]hey must happen by design, she stated. To try and explain them via random processes results in odds of billions to one. I would not bet on the random side of these kind of odds.
The significance of these findings is [that] I have shown there to be a pattern throughout eighty- two launches that were part of the Apollo preparation phase - and Apollo itself. Additionally, I have shown that the Apollo missions follow this same pattern on a day-to- day, mission- activities level, which is even more improbable because of its consistency with the launch data. Furthermore, it is improbable that the frequency of these stellar alignments are [sic] tied to weather or lighting conditions, because of the fact that they occur for a variety of mission events, even those that do not require specific lighting or weather conditions, she concluded.
The significance of these findings is [that] I have shown there to be a pattern throughout eighty- two launches that were part of the Apollo preparation phase - and Apollo itself. Additionally, I have shown that the Apollo missions follow this same pattern on a day-to- day, mission- activities level, which is even more improbable because of its consistency with the launch data.
Furthermore, it is improbable that the frequency of these stellar alignments are [sic] tied to weather or lighting conditions, because of the fact that they occur for a variety of mission events, even those that do not require specific lighting or weather conditions, she concluded.
Michael Bara pointed to a disturbing similarity with Russian space flights.
He noticed that the launch of the first module for the new International Space Station was launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome located in Kazakhstan, now an independent nation that borders Russia and the Caspian Sea, and was apparently designed to coincide with a number of the significant celestial alignments already found in NASAs long-established ritual pattern.
This would indicate some connection between the former Soviet space program and NASA, perhaps through the Nazi scientists working in both. After studying the August 1998 mission, Bara noted,
[The module] Zarya, which translates into sunrise or rising sun in English, was launched from pad 333 at its precisely scheduled time despite Russian requests to have the launch delayed. NASA, citing a number of minor technical considerations, refused the Russian request and the launch went off as originally scheduled and was witnessed by NASA administrator Dan Goldin. Considering that the [International Space Station] program was already a year behind schedule, another minor delay would not, despite NASA protestations to the contrary, have led to a significant problem. Only when you consider the symbolic significance of the moment does this steadfast insistence make sense.
[The module] Zarya, which translates into sunrise or rising sun in English, was launched from pad 333 at its precisely scheduled time despite Russian requests to have the launch delayed. NASA, citing a number of minor technical considerations, refused the Russian request and the launch went off as originally scheduled and was witnessed by NASA administrator Dan Goldin.
Considering that the [International Space Station] program was already a year behind schedule, another minor delay would not, despite NASA protestations to the contrary, have led to a significant problem. Only when you consider the symbolic significance of the moment does this steadfast insistence make sense.
It is not necessary for one to believe in astrology. The point is that someone high enough in power in the U.S. government - and, apparently, in Russia - to be able to order the dates and times of space missions does believe in such things.
Is this evidence of Nazi occultism in our space program? President John F. Kennedy may have been aware of a parallel space program and decided to make it public policy. On November 12, 1963, ten days before his assassination, he instructed NASA administrator James Webb to develop a program of joint space and lunar exploration with the Soviet Union. This proposal, which may startle Americans today, was verified by Sergei Khruschev, the eldest son of the former Russian premier, in 1997.
The importance of Kennedys step toward reconciliation with the Soviet Union and his control over NASA will become apparent in the upcoming chapter, Kennedy and the Nazis.
Who would have wanted to stop joint U.S.-Soviet space missions that might have ended the Cold War in the early 1960s? And who has been orchestrating the launches of space missions in both the United States and Russia with an eye toward occult astrological alignments? Does this mean that someone with the power to set space mission launches in both nations truly believes in the power of the position of the stars? And whom did Johnson mean by the masters of infinity?
Who would have wanted to stop joint U.S.-Soviet space missions that might have ended the Cold War in the early 1960s?
And who has been orchestrating the launches of space missions in both the United States and Russia with an eye toward occult astrological alignments?
Does this mean that someone with the power to set space mission launches in both nations truly believes in the power of the position of the stars?
And whom did Johnson mean by the masters of infinity?
Strong evidence suggests they may well be the subject of this book - those global National Socialists and their minions, who have a goal of controlling the entire world.
Nicholas Nick Rockefeller, a participant in the World Economic Forum, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies, may have revealed the overall globalist agenda when he said,
The end goal is to get everybody chipped, to control the whole society, to have the bankers and the elite people control the world.
But this control goes far beyond military and space hardware.
In modern warfare, there is also the struggle for control over the hearts and minds of whole populations, whether by psychological or chemical means.
Return to Project Paperclip
