# Project Crystal Knight - Video interview of Bill Ryan - March 2006

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_projectSERPO10.htm

by Kerry Cassidy Date: 03/08/06 16:13:28
from Prepare4ContactYahooGroup Website
I did a search on the name Crystal Knight and I was not finding anything of interest until I came across the reference to 'Crystal Nacht' below. From there I did another search and found more very interesting connections. My point here is that the group of secret anonymous agents come from the whole Project Paperclip background (at least some of their older members. And their choices of NAMES for various top secret projects such as Project Crystal Knight can be a clue to the symbolism they are using or other hidden meanings in the project itself. Just a thought. And in this case the choice of name is disconcerting to say the least... Which is not to say that it doesn't make perfect sense that there would have been (and are) alien/human exchange programs (theirs and ours!!) But when searching for the 'story elements' behind any manufactured or cobbled-together disinfo fragments... searching for synchronicities and hidden symbolism can reveal the patterns in their thinking processes and therefore may end up revealing more truth than staying on the surface.
From The Nazi Party, the Thule Society, the Occult, and Freemasonry:
."The Nazi's shut down the 'Modern' Grand Lodges whose membership was heavily jewish, liberal, and 'international', but allowed the 'national' Old Prussian Grand Lodges to carry on after their Grand Master's sent formal written oaths of allegiance to 'Mein Furher', changed their name to 'The Frederick the Great Association' (Frederick the Great being German 'Regular' Freemasonry's founder and principal patron.), and removed any obvious Hebraic wording from it's rituals. When the war was over 'regular' Freemasonry operating under the guise of 'The Frederick the Great Association' changed their name back to what it was before Crystal Nacht. You won't see any of this mentioned on any of those 'Is it true what they say about Freemasonry?' or 'Difficult Questions about Freemasonry' web sites that 'regular' Freemasonry has mirrored all over the net." ."The Old Prussian 'regular' National Grand Lodges were filled with Officers of the High Command, Captains of Industry, Commerce, Finance, Leading Citizens, and Royalty, most of whom were loyal Nazi Party members themselves. The very men who brought Hitler to power. All with the knowledge of American and British 'regular' Grand Lodge Freemasonry and it's hereditary pro-nazi Grand Master the Duke of Kent. Potsdam Day, 1933 The Memorial Stamp Set issued to mark the opening of the first Nazi Reichstag, or German Parliament. It depicts Hitler's personal hero, Prussian King Frederick The Great, the founder and patron of 'Regular' Freemasonry in Germany."... "Kristallnacht," also known as Reichskristallnacht, Pogromnacht and in English as The Night of Broken Glass, was a massive nationwide pogrom in Germany and Austria on the Night of November 9, 1938 (including early hours of the following day). It was directed at Jewish citizens throughout the country, and was for many observers the first hint that what is now called the Holocaust (of which it was an early event) that might be regarded as unique in scale in the history of Central and Western Europe.
Terminology
from Wikipendia Website
Names for this event are the subject of some controversy. It was called Kristallnacht (German for "crystal night") by the common people evoking the many shop windows, mostly owned by Jewish shopkeepers, that were broken during the night. There are basically two explanations for this term: Dr. Walter H. Pehle, a historian specializing in modern Germany, has argued that the direct translation should be unacceptable because its original intent was cynically propagandizing the violence into something metaphorically holding "sparkle and gleam" for Germany. In the term Reichskristallnacht, the prefix "''Reichs-''" is grammatically a possessive of "''Reich", which means "Empire". Both forms of that word were heavily used in German-government propaganda during the Nazi period, and in this case it would seem intended to assert that (no matter how spontaneous it was presented as being) it was an event of importance to the whole nation, not just a collection of local events whose significance was limited to the respective local communities. The English term "The Night of Broken Glass" is often explained as avoiding the ironic intent of Kristallnacht. A much more probable but forgotten origin of the term Kristallnacht is not the Nazi propaganda but the conversation of the ordinary people, especially in Berlin. Aware of the fact that much more serious crimes than breaking windows were committed, the euphemistic term was coined because people were fearing repression by the Nazi state apparatus for calling a spade a spade.
Many people also saw that the November pogroms were not an outbreak of "spontaneous wrath of the German people" as the Nazi propaganda tried to portray it, but a state-organized and executed act of terror. This explains the prefix Reichs- (imperial), that people used also in other contexts to ridicule and criticize aspects of the Nazi dictatorship (e.g. Reichswasserleiche - "Imperial Drowned Body" for actress Kristina S?baum). The meaning of (Reichs-) Kristallnacht as a term critizing and accusing the Nazi-dictatorship for what took place has largely been forgotten. Today in Germany it is mostly called Pogromnacht ("pogrom night"), reflecting a consensus that "Kristallnacht" was too euphemistic given the fact that the original dimension of the term has been lost. "
Watch video Serpo - Project Crystal Knight
Return
