# Proof that the USA is Controlled by Foreign Corporations

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_americanempire85.htm

by P.L. Chang August 17, 2015
from OmniThought Website
Spanish version
This article could shake the foundation of the Western legal system, because it contains proof that the United States is a CRIMINAL corporation controlled by foreign powers. Furthermore, it exposes the fraud of the court system and teaches you how to free humanity. Please help restore the Republic for the United States of America and freedom throughout the world by reposting this article on the Internet or sharing it to as many people as possible. ~ PL
This article could shake the foundation of the Western legal system, because it contains proof that the United States is a CRIMINAL corporation controlled by foreign powers.
Furthermore, it exposes the fraud of the court system and teaches you how to free humanity. Please help restore the Republic for the United States of America and freedom throughout the world by reposting this article on the Internet or sharing it to as many people as possible.
~ PL
One of the greatest tricks that the New World Order (NWO) did to enslave the people of the world was to secretly create a corporate version of counties, cities, states, and countries.
By doing this, the leaders of the NWO and their minions were able to trick us to unknowingly agree to be "agents" or "employees" of these corporations through the use of fraudulent contracts (i.e., birth certificate, social security card, driver's license). The information in this article is more focused on the USA, because I am more familiar with the so called laws in the USA and the U.S. legal system.
If you do not live in the USA, you should still read this article for the reason that the same legal system that has enslaved Americans is the same legal system that has enslaved most people of the world. The "laws" in the USA are not really laws; instead, they are acts and statutes of the United States, Incorporated.
In other words, they are rules and codes of a corporation. Like any corporation (i.e., Walmart, Target), you are NOT bound to the rules (acts and statutes) of the United States, Inc. unless you agree to be a citizen ("employee") of this corporation.
The only laws you (the natural living, breathing person) are bound to are the Laws of Nature.
Did You Know the United States is a FOREIGN Corporation? Before I reveal the three different types of citizenship (citizen-ship or citizen of a ship) of the "United States", I need to explain to you what the United States is, so that you know it is NOT a country.
When the U.S. government refers to the United States, 99 percent of the time it is referring to the corporation known as the United States, Inc. What you need to know about the U.S. government is that it is also a foreign corporation.
See below proof:
Some people claimed that the United States, Inc. was sold in 2013 and is now known as THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INC.
I have not found evidence to back up this claim, so I do not know if it is true. Be aware that the name of this corporation is written in ALL CAPS. If you know how the legal system works, you should know that when a name is written in all caps, it can change the meaning of that name.
For example, in legal terms "the United States of America" is not the same as "THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA".
The purpose of this is to trick you to think that they are the same thing. This process also applies to your legal name. The content in block quotation below will explain this process further.
It is extracted from my fourth seminar titled Word Magic and the Power of Words.
In commerce, when you see a name written in all capital letters, it is a corporate name or a legal name, which is a corporation. The legal name plays a significant role in your life, because it is used by the government to identify the corporate you. Whenever you receive a government document issued to you, 99 percent of the time your legal name on the document is written in all caps. This is why your legal name on your driver's license, social security card, and birth certificate is written in all caps. The process that allows the government to legally claim you as a corporation involves the creation of a fictional you, which is the name written in all CAPITAL LETTERS, and then tricking you to agree to be that artificial person or legal name. This legal name was created shortly after you were born and was recorded on a bond. This bond that represents the date of your birth is known as your birth certificate. The birth certificate is actually a certificate of debt slavery which is why it is recorded on a bond. TheLawDictionary.org defines bond as, "a contract by specialty to pay a certain sum of money; being a deed or instrument under seal, by which the maker or obligor promises, and thereto binds himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to pay a designated sum of money to another." Your legal name, which is used to identify you (the body of water or liquid), is written in all capital letters because it is a piece of liquidated capital or "cap-it-all." In other words, it has been securitized and turned into a financial instrument. Hence, the term "liquidated capital." To liquidate something is to sell it off entirely, or sell it to pay off a debt. It is called liquidated capital because you, the person who has been securitized, were born in the womb of your mother, which was mostly made of water (liquid). You are also mostly made of water. Because you are mostly made of liquid and have been securitized, you are considered liquidated capital. The purpose of liquidating you is to turn you into "capital money." The word capital comes from the Latin word capitalis, which means "of the head," hence "capital, chief, first." It also comes from another Latin word caput, which translates to English as "head." When you really think about this process, you should know that the process of turning you into capital money or liquidated capital is their way of saying that you have a "bounty on your head." Your birth certificate is the bond with your all caps legal name written on it, and therefore it is the financial document that has the value of the bounty on your head. This is why your birth certificate is traded on the stock market.
In commerce, when you see a name written in all capital letters, it is a corporate name or a legal name, which is a corporation.
The legal name plays a significant role in your life, because it is used by the government to identify the corporate you. Whenever you receive a government document issued to you, 99 percent of the time your legal name on the document is written in all caps.
This is why your legal name on your driver's license, social security card, and birth certificate is written in all caps.
The process that allows the government to legally claim you as a corporation involves the creation of a fictional you, which is the name written in all CAPITAL LETTERS, and then tricking you to agree to be that artificial person or legal name.
This legal name was created shortly after you were born and was recorded on a bond. This bond that represents the date of your birth is known as your birth certificate.
The birth certificate is actually a certificate of debt slavery which is why it is recorded on a bond.
TheLawDictionary.org defines bond as,
"a contract by specialty to pay a certain sum of money; being a deed or instrument under seal, by which the maker or obligor promises, and thereto binds himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to pay a designated sum of money to another."
Your legal name, which is used to identify you (the body of water or liquid), is written in all capital letters because it is a piece of liquidated capital or "cap-it-all."
In other words, it has been securitized and turned into a financial instrument. Hence, the term "liquidated capital."
To liquidate something is to sell it off entirely, or sell it to pay off a debt. It is called liquidated capital because you, the person who has been securitized, were born in the womb of your mother, which was mostly made of water (liquid). You are also mostly made of water. Because you are mostly made of liquid and have been securitized, you are considered liquidated capital.
The purpose of liquidating you is to turn you into "capital money."
The word capital comes from the Latin word capitalis, which means "of the head," hence "capital, chief, first." It also comes from another Latin word caput, which translates to English as "head."
When you really think about this process, you should know that the process of turning you into capital money or liquidated capital is their way of saying that you have a "bounty on your head."
Your birth certificate is the bond with your all caps legal name written on it, and therefore it is the financial document that has the value of the bounty on your head.
This is why your birth certificate is traded on the stock market.
By now you should know that the United States is a corporation.
If you want proof of this, look at subsections 15 and 15(A) in Title 28 U.S. Code § 3002 and you should see this sentence, "'United States' means -(A) a Federal corporation".
What most people do not know about the United States, Inc. is that it is a FOREIGN corporation. Anyone who works for this foreign corporation is a foreign agent and is unknowingly or knowingly committing fraud against the American people. It is no different than what the agents of the British Empire did to the American people back in the 1700s.
To be more specific, the politicians working in Washington D.C. and nearly every politician, judge, attorney, police officer, and government agent working throughout the USA are FOREIGN agents.
Because these government employees are foreign agents, DO NOT VOTE for any of them to represent you in office, including the president. If you do vote for them, you are committing TREASON against the Republic for the United States of America (the 50 union states).
Whether these foreign agents realize it or not, they are conspiring or helping the NWO and the Vatican to enslave the American people. As Americans, we have lost control of our government over a century ago.
This is what happens to a nation when its people become ignorant, take freedom for granted, ignore the actions of politicians, and do not study their history.
According to the book titled You Know Something Is Wrong When "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause," the three different forms of the United States are the Continental United States, the Federal United States, and the Corporate United States.
The Continental United States In the book titled You Know Something Is Wrong When... "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause," it says that the Continental United States is "composed of now 50 geographically defined states and their living inhabitants. Each such state is a sovereign nation with jurisdiction of the air, land, and sea associated with it. Those born within the borders of these states are American State Citizens by birthright, having all the guarantees of The Constitution, and all their Natural Rights intact. They are also known as American Nationals. In Title 8 U.S. Code § 1101 subsection (b) (iii) (M) (38), it says. "The term 'United States', except as otherwise specifically herein provided, when used in a geographical sense, means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands." Be aware that the information in Title 8 U.S. Code § 1101 subsection (b)(iii)(M)(38), uses the lowercase "c" in the term "continental United States". In the book titled You Know Something Is Wrong When "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause," it uses the uppercase "C" in the term "Continental United States". When it comes to the legal system, a word spelled with a lowercase or an uppercase letter at the beginning of it can significantly change the meaning of that word. For this reason, both of the sources may be referring to two different "United States". In Title 8 CFR 215.1 subsection (f), it says, "The term continental United States means the District of Columbia and the several States, except Alaska and Hawaii." This sentence has the lowercase "c" in the term "continental United States", so it is referring to the District of Columbia, also known as Washington D.C. What you need to know about Washington D.C. is that it is a foreign city-state run by the Congress as an oligarchy. Washington D.C. was founded by a powerful masonic secret society called the Colombians. Hence the term "District of Columbia". The Federal United States The Federal United States is made up of 50 "Federal States" plus seven physical states, which are often thought of as federal territories, making a total of 57 Federal States. The 50 Federal States are fictitious entities because they exist only in our minds and on paper. The 57 Federal States are inhabited by United States Citizens and all the people born in Guam, Puerto Rico, and other Insular States, plus military employees, federal civilian, African Americans, political asylum seekers, and welfare recipients. The Federal United States is a Democracy operating under the international Jurisdiction of the Sea (Admiralty Law). Be aware that the Democracy (the Federal United States) is not the same as the original USA, which is known as the Republic for the United States of America. United States Citizens are statutory citizens and therefore they are artificial persons (corporations) that have no rights, only privileges. Because of these things, United States Citizens are bound to the international Jurisdiction of the Sea. The Corporate United States The Corporate United States (UNITED STATES, INC.) is composed of 185,000 corporations and roughly 390 million corporate U.S. CITIZENS. It is composed of "legal fiction entities", including but not limited to C corps, S corps, LLC's, non-profits, foundations, and trusts. The Corporate United States operates similar to any corporation and is one of the largest corporations in the world. It is bigger than Walmart, Target, and McDonald's combined! One important thing you need to know about the term "legal fiction entities" is that it means artificial persons. An artificial person is also a corporation, as stated in Black's Law Dictionary 6th edition. In other words, U.S. CITIZENS are artificial persons or fictitious entities that only exist on paper. All these corporations (i.e., STATES, U.S. CITIZENS) are under the Jurisdiction of the Sea, which is based on Admiralty Law.
The Continental United States
In the book titled You Know Something Is Wrong When... "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause," it says that the Continental United States is "composed of now 50 geographically defined states and their living inhabitants.
Each such state is a sovereign nation with jurisdiction of the air, land, and sea associated with it.
Those born within the borders of these states are American State Citizens by birthright, having all the guarantees of The Constitution, and all their Natural Rights intact.
They are also known as American Nationals.
In Title 8 U.S. Code § 1101 subsection (b) (iii) (M) (38), it says.
"The term 'United States', except as otherwise specifically herein provided, when used in a geographical sense, means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands."
Be aware that the information in Title 8 U.S. Code § 1101 subsection (b)(iii)(M)(38), uses the lowercase "c" in the term "continental United States".
In the book titled You Know Something Is Wrong When "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause," it uses the uppercase "C" in the term "Continental United States".
When it comes to the legal system, a word spelled with a lowercase or an uppercase letter at the beginning of it can significantly change the meaning of that word.
For this reason, both of the sources may be referring to two different "United States".
In Title 8 CFR 215.1 subsection (f), it says,
"The term continental United States means the District of Columbia and the several States, except Alaska and Hawaii."
This sentence has the lowercase "c" in the term "continental United States", so it is referring to the District of Columbia, also known as Washington D.C.
What you need to know about Washington D.C. is that it is a foreign city-state run by the Congress as an oligarchy. Washington D.C. was founded by a powerful masonic secret society called the Colombians.
Hence the term "District of Columbia".
The Federal United States
The Federal United States is made up of 50 "Federal States" plus seven physical states, which are often thought of as federal territories, making a total of 57 Federal States. The 50 Federal States are fictitious entities because they exist only in our minds and on paper.
The 57 Federal States are inhabited by United States Citizens and all the people born in Guam, Puerto Rico, and other Insular States, plus military employees, federal civilian, African Americans, political asylum seekers, and welfare recipients.
The Federal United States is a Democracy operating under the international Jurisdiction of the Sea (Admiralty Law). Be aware that the Democracy (the Federal United States) is not the same as the original USA, which is known as the Republic for the United States of America.
United States Citizens are statutory citizens and therefore they are artificial persons (corporations) that have no rights, only privileges. Because of these things, United States Citizens are bound to the international Jurisdiction of the Sea.
The Corporate United States
The Corporate United States (UNITED STATES, INC.) is composed of 185,000 corporations and roughly 390 million corporate U.S. CITIZENS.
It is composed of "legal fiction entities", including but not limited to C corps, S corps, LLC's, non-profits, foundations, and trusts.
The Corporate United States operates similar to any corporation and is one of the largest corporations in the world. It is bigger than Walmart, Target, and McDonald's combined!
One important thing you need to know about the term "legal fiction entities" is that it means artificial persons. An artificial person is also a corporation, as stated in Black's Law Dictionary 6th edition. In other words, U.S. CITIZENS are artificial persons or fictitious entities that only exist on paper.
All these corporations (i.e., STATES, U.S. CITIZENS) are under the Jurisdiction of the Sea, which is based on Admiralty Law.
The United States is a foreign corporation pretending to represent the country known as the Continental United States or The United States of America (Major), which is a republic and not a democracy.
To make matters worse, every county, city, and state has a corporate version of itself. For example, the STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA is not the same as West Virginia State.
The PDF file (click below image) shows evidence that the STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA is a corporation. Be aware that this is not only limited to West Virginia. All the 50 states have a corporate version of themselves. This also applies to the cities and counties.
To find evidence that your U.S. state is a corporation, visit this website and do a search using these words "state of [your state here]". If you want more specific information, you may need to order a company credit report from a credit report site, such as dnb.com.
The video below shows more evidence that the USA is controlled by corporations.
I recommend watching the whole video. If you do not have time to watch the whole video, scroll to the 42 minute mark of the video and watch it to the 52 minute mark.
Do you realize now that the USA is controlled by corporations? Have you ever wondered why the United States has a president and a vice president?
Do you realize now that the USA is controlled by corporations?
Have you ever wondered why the United States has a president and a vice president?
Under corporate law, every corporation is required to have a president and a vice president.
The current president (Obama) of the United States is not the president of a country, but is the president of a corporation (United States, Inc.). As a result, he does not need to be born in the USA to be eligible to be president.
All the U.S. presidents since George Washington were also presidents of the corporate "United States."
The content in block quotation is an excerpt from my second seminar on Natural Law. It contains information that gives us some clue as to why nearly all United States politicians are traitors.
Nearly all politicians in the USA are TREASONISTS, because they swore an oath to a privately owned foreign corporation known as the UNITED STATES INCORPORATED. Washington D.C. or the District of Columbia is also a privately owned foreign corporation. Washington D.C. is NOT part of the USA, just like Vatican City is not part of Italy. To find the evidence that nearly all politicians in the USA are treasonists, you need to be aware of Title 8 U.S. Code § 1481. Under Title 8 U.S. Code § 1481: "(a) A person who is a national of the United States whether by birth or naturalization, shall lose his nationality by voluntarily performing any of the following acts with the intention of relinquishing United States nationality (2) taking an oath or making an affirmation or other formal declaration of allegiance to a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after having attained the age of eighteen years (4) (A) accepting, serving in, or performing the duties of any office, post, or employment under the government of a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after attaining the age of eighteen years if he has or acquires the nationality of such foreign state" In simple terms, once an oath of office is taken by an American citizen, his citizenship is relinquished and thus he becomes a foreign agent. This happens because he swore an oath to the foreign UNITED STATES INCORPORATED and the foreign organization that controls it.
Nearly all politicians in the USA are TREASONISTS, because they swore an oath to a privately owned foreign corporation known as the UNITED STATES INCORPORATED.
Washington D.C. or the District of Columbia is also a privately owned foreign corporation. Washington D.C. is NOT part of the USA, just like Vatican City is not part of Italy.
To find the evidence that nearly all politicians in the USA are treasonists, you need to be aware of Title 8 U.S. Code § 1481.
Under Title 8 U.S. Code § 1481:
"(a) A person who is a national of the United States whether by birth or naturalization, shall lose his nationality by voluntarily performing any of the following acts with the intention of relinquishing United States nationality (2) taking an oath or making an affirmation or other formal declaration of allegiance to a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after having attained the age of eighteen years (4) (A) accepting, serving in, or performing the duties of any office, post, or employment under the government of a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after attaining the age of eighteen years if he has or acquires the nationality of such foreign state"
"(a) A person who is a national of the United States whether by birth or naturalization, shall lose his nationality by voluntarily performing any of the following acts with the intention of relinquishing United States nationality
(2) taking an oath or making an affirmation or other formal declaration of allegiance to a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after having attained the age of eighteen years
(4) (A) accepting, serving in, or performing the duties of any office, post, or employment under the government of a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof, after attaining the age of eighteen years if he has or acquires the nationality of such foreign state"
In simple terms, once an oath of office is taken by an American citizen, his citizenship is relinquished and thus he becomes a foreign agent.
This happens because he swore an oath to the foreign UNITED STATES INCORPORATED and the foreign organization that controls it.
The Vatican The Vatican is the religious center for the New World Order (NWO). Every church in the USA is directly or indirectly controlled by the Vatican, especially Roman Catholic Churches. All churches in the USA are incorporated and therefore they belong to the U.S. federal government. The idea that there is a separation of church and state is a big fat lie! The Vatican also controls the Crown of England, the Crown Temple, and the court system in the USA. This is why when you go to court, there is always an agent that represents the Crown and a judge wearing a black robe. The black robe uniform is the symbol representing a Jesuit priest. Nearly every church in the USA and the world has been infiltrated by the Jesuits and the Knights Templar, which is why churches have crosses on their walls and roofs. The cross is the main symbol of the Knights Templar and it has been used by certain secret societies long before the existence of Christianity. In other words, the cross is not really a symbol of Christianity. For strong evidence of these claims, download or view my third seminar and study the information in it. These secret criminal organizations are the same organizations that the American people in the 1700s fought against to win their independence. The Vatican is in the middle of all this corruption, which is why all roads tend to lead to Rome, home of the Vatican. This criminal corporation is committing crime against humanity in the name of "religion." The United Nations The United Nations is a very powerful organization of the NWO and has more authority than the United States. This corporation provides trade, treaty, and negotiation services for its members, and has its own private army. The main hidden agenda of the United Nations is to unite all nations under a fascist one-world government controlled by the banking elites of Europe and Israel. The name Israel or Is-Ra-El represents the ancient gods Isis, Ra, and El. The United Nations is committing crimes against humanity through unlawful wars in the name of "peacekeeping". The United States The United States is a corporation located in Washington D.C., also known as the District of Columbia. Washington D.C. is the military center for the NWO. The United States, Inc. has thousands of franchises and contractors. One of its major contractors is the military industrial complex. The United States, Inc. is committing crime against humanity by unlawfully going to war with other countries in the name of "freedom" and "democracy." What it is actually doing is spreading its franchise throughout the world, similar to Walmart and McDonald's. The Inner City of London (Westminster) The inner City of London is the financial center for the NWO. This city-state operates legal and banking services. The banks in the City of London is headed by the Bank of England, which is controlled by the House of Rothschild, an elite Illuminati banking family. Most money collected from the American taxpayers is sent to the banks in the City of London and then is distributed to other banks affiliated with the NWO. The inner City of London is committing crime against humanity by engineering economic crises and wars, and funding terrorist groups (i.e., ISIS, Al-Qaeda) throughout the world.
The Vatican
The Vatican is the religious center for the New World Order (NWO).
Every church in the USA is directly or indirectly controlled by the Vatican, especially Roman Catholic Churches. All churches in the USA are incorporated and therefore they belong to the U.S. federal government.
The idea that there is a separation of church and state is a big fat lie!
The Vatican also controls the Crown of England, the Crown Temple, and the court system in the USA. This is why when you go to court, there is always an agent that represents the Crown and a judge wearing a black robe.
The black robe uniform is the symbol representing a Jesuit priest.
Nearly every church in the USA and the world has been infiltrated by the Jesuits and the Knights Templar, which is why churches have crosses on their walls and roofs. The cross is the main symbol of the Knights Templar and it has been used by certain secret societies long before the existence of Christianity.
In other words, the cross is not really a symbol of Christianity. For strong evidence of these claims, download or view my third seminar and study the information in it.
These secret criminal organizations are the same organizations that the American people in the 1700s fought against to win their independence. The Vatican is in the middle of all this corruption, which is why all roads tend to lead to Rome, home of the Vatican.
This criminal corporation is committing crime against humanity in the name of "religion."
The United Nations
The United Nations is a very powerful organization of the NWO and has more authority than the United States. This corporation provides trade, treaty, and negotiation services for its members, and has its own private army.
The main hidden agenda of the United Nations is to unite all nations under a fascist one-world government controlled by the banking elites of Europe and Israel. The name Israel or Is-Ra-El represents the ancient gods Isis, Ra, and El.
The United Nations is committing crimes against humanity through unlawful wars in the name of "peacekeeping".
The United States
The United States is a corporation located in Washington D.C., also known as the District of Columbia.
Washington D.C. is the military center for the NWO. The United States, Inc. has thousands of franchises and contractors. One of its major contractors is the military industrial complex.
The United States, Inc. is committing crime against humanity by unlawfully going to war with other countries in the name of "freedom" and "democracy." What it is actually doing is spreading its franchise throughout the world, similar to Walmart and McDonald's.
The Inner City of London (Westminster)
The inner City of London is the financial center for the NWO.
This city-state operates legal and banking services. The banks in the City of London is headed by the Bank of England, which is controlled by the House of Rothschild, an elite Illuminati banking family.
Most money collected from the American taxpayers is sent to the banks in the City of London and then is distributed to other banks affiliated with the NWO.
The inner City of London is committing crime against humanity by engineering economic crises and wars, and funding terrorist groups (i.e., ISIS, Al-Qaeda) throughout the world.
It is important to know that many of the people working for these four criminal corporations are good people.
The problem is that most of them have no idea that these corporations are fronts for the New World Order, a secret organization composed of certain secret societies.
One of the first steps to free humanity is to educate people about the New World Order and the legal system.
When people are educated with the right knowledge, it increases their awareness and expands their consciousness. These things are very important for achieving freedom. A simple way to educate people about the NWO and the legal system is to share this article to as many people as possible.
Take actions to support the brave souls who are exposing the NWO and the legal system.
The Team of Hudok, Stalnaker, and Deegan is a great place to start. Dean Clifford, Kurt Kallenbach, and Santos Bonacci are three other brave souls who are doing an excellent job of exposing the NWO and the legal system.
Download or view my second seminar and study the information in it. My second seminar explains what Natural Law is and teaches you about your natural rights. Knowing what your natural rights are is essential for spiritual freedom. My second seminar also exposes the secrets of the legal system and shows you how to defend your rights.
The video below does an excellent job of exposing the fraud of the legal system and the criminal activities of the United States, Inc.
A must watch for anyone who wants to learn how to restore humanity's freedom...
Kurt Kallenbach
Season of Treason II - America's Cancer
Sources
Riezinger, Anna M., & Belcher, James C. You Know Something Is Wrong When "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause". CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. 2015. http://sedm.org/libertyu/citandsovereignty.pdf http://hudok.info/
Riezinger, Anna M., & Belcher, James C. You Know Something Is Wrong When "An American Affidavit of Probable Cause". CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. 2015.
http://sedm.org/libertyu/citandsovereignty.pdf
http://hudok.info/
Return to American "Empire"
Return to The New World Order
Return to The Secret History of America's Capital - Washington D.C.
