# Reich of The Black Sun - 13

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/reichblacksun/chapter13.htm

Chapter 13
QUANTUM NUMEROLOGY AND VORTICULAR PHYSICS, NAZI STYLE
"And look what happened next. No sooner had people started showing an interest in Schauberger again than a man with clear ties to the US intelligence community turns up on his doorstep, tempts him over to the United States and shuts his operation down - permanently." Nick Cook The Hunt for Zero Point 1
"And look what happened next. No sooner had people started showing an interest in Schauberger again than a man with clear ties to the US intelligence community turns up on his doorstep, tempts him over to the United States and shuts his operation down - permanently."
Nick Cook
The Hunt for Zero Point 1
The bewilderment of Reichminister of Armaments Albert Speer when confronted by prosecutor Jackson's allegations of a German chemical weapons test of extraordinary power near Auschwitz is not an isolated instance.2 Bewilderment seems to be the normal state of mind when confronted by the even more sensational allegations that have percolated through the press and UFOlogy journals since the war's end of Nazi development of prototype "flying saucers." How could anything so outlandish be true, much less be publicly reported?
1 Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 227.
2 In the light of the previous chapter's information, another plausible explanation of Speer's ignorance of the weapon, as well as an explanation of what the weapon might have been, now present themselves, for a fuel-air bomb would fall well within the parameters of the test described by Jackson, and since, once again, the test occurred under SS auspices, it is not surprising that Speer did not know of it.
A starting point for entry into this much-maligned aspect of UFOlogy is what German physics actually was doing prior to and during the War under the Nazis. Much has been written of the deleterious effects of Nazi ideology on banning "Jewish physics," i.e., relativity, from German science, so this will not be covered again here.
This left quantum mechanics as the only genuine physics that could equally be claimed to be "Aryan" and pursued by Nazi physicists with a vengeance.
Quantum mechanics, in the state in which it then existed, could be summarized as having the following emphases and implications for the German scientists involved:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Given this series of known physical papers and experiments, and given the Kammlerstab's "alchemy" of combining technologies and concepts to seek underlying unifying principles and methods, might they have put all these together to come up with the beginning theoretical outlines of a physics completely different than the public consumption physics proffered since the end of the war, up to, and including the 26 dimensional monster called "String theory"? If so, are there any indications that they did so, or were beginning to? While the indications in terms of actual papers are slight, those indications, coupled with the revelations that have come from Germany since its reunification, suggest that the answer to both questions is "yes."
A. Gravity, Vortices, and Quantum Numerology
Dr. Ing. Ott Christoph Hilgenberg was a student of the renowned Nobel laureate Walter Gerlach, whose work in magnetic spin polarization in 1921 had earned him the Nobel Prize. Hilgenberg, however, while within the "mainstream" of physics, was not one to allow his mind to be constrained by conventional concepts, as any glance at his two little known, but quite unconventional and thought-provoking papers will attest.
In 1931 Hilgenberg published what may best be called an arcane paper entitled "Gravitation, Tromben, und Wellen in bewegten Medien," or "Gravitation, Beats, and Waves in Moving Media." The title itself is quite suggestive, for it is the first indication that, even before the Nazis, and after relativity, at least one serious and respected German physicist is still thinking of the old idea of an aether, but thinking about it in a way quite different from the static aether concepts of the 19th century that led to the famous Michelson-Morley experiment, and Sagnac's rotational version of it.
For Hilgenberg is thinking of a dynamic aether, spurred in part no doubt by the implications of Sagnac's version of the famous experiment. Hilgenberg's paper was arcane and abstruse in the extreme, advocating the idea of gravitation as a vertical ether sink. Thus, as in relativity, gravity was the consequence of a complex geometry, only in Hilgenberg's case, this meant that "mass" was a geometric result manifest, for example, in a rotating body's interior. This led Hilgenberg to propose the very unconventional idea that the earth - or any other such rotating massive body -expanded and contracted, in a huge wave-like pattern over time.
In 1938 Hilgenberg followed this paper up with a mathematical and theoretical physics tour de force entitled "Quantenzahlen, Wirbelring-Atommodelle und Heliumsechserring-Aufbauprinzip des Periodensystems der chemischen Elemente," a mind-twister that is no less impressive in English: "A Quantum Number, Vortex Atom Model and Hexagonal-ring Construction Principle of the Periodic System of the Chemical Elements."
Hilgenberg had developed the mathematics for a system of modelling complete atoms according to vorticular rotational principles of the now long-discarded aether!
The combined effect of these two papers and their mathematical and theoretical development allowed Hilgenberg to predict a number of effects completely at variance with relativistic physics, and long before similar observations in the late 20th century began to signal significant problems with the relativistic-Big Bang cosmology, e.g., heterodyning effects on light coming from a body moving toward the observer, or, to put it simply, why red-shift effects sometimes accompany bodies moving toward an observer rather than away from one.
Under Hilgenberg's influence, Carl Friedrich Krafft took this "vorticular quantum mechanics" one step further, and posited atoms as essentially a geometric or topological construct of the aether that acted as "ether pumps", taking in or giving off energy based on the rotations of the various rings of dynamic aether around them. He developed this notion even further by positing various combinations of vorticular, rotating geometries as the basis for the then known sub-atomic particles. Krafft, whose views were totally eclipsed by war's end with the victory of the Allies - which likewise might be seen as a victory of relativity - was left to self- publish his works in this strange world of "non-linear physics", which were duly and promptly ignored by the more conventionally minded linear physics of relativity and its proponents.3 But is there any indication that all this theory about the vorticular and rotational aspect of a dynamic aether was ever pursued beyond the stage of theory?
3 No amount of explaining, however, can seem to quell the anti-relativist side of things for the simple feet that in most respects the theory of General Relativity has enormous predictive power, and therefore, scientific value and credibility. It is only recently that some crucial observations have arisen to challenge its assumptions.
Indeed there is, but it requires a detour by way of a bit of aerodynamics, courtesy of Renato Vesco once again.
B. Disks, Boundary Layer, And Turbines
Vesco maintained an unusual approach throughout the various reprinting of his book, namely, that German experimentation with disk shaped aircraft actually began as an experiment to transform the entire lift surface into the intake vent for a jet turbine. That is to say, on his view, the earliest German "saucers" were nothing more than standard suction aircraft, though admittedly of very unusual design. These experimental aircraft were further the offshoots of German experiments to suction the boundary layer from the lift surfaces of aircraft.
The "boundary layer" is that small layer - only a few molecules of air thick - of air that "sticks" to a lift surface, such as a wing, and, as an aircraft moves faster, this layer increases the drag on the lift surface, and therefore weakens its efficiency and requires more energy to move the craft. As speed increases and depending on the configuration of the wing itself, great turbulence can build up behind the wing as the result of the thickening of the boundary layer, increasing the aerodynamic resistance. "It seems clear, therefore, even to a layman in aeronautics that the objective should be to move the point of transition as far to the rear of the moving body as possible in order to minimize the expenditure of motive energy required to propel the body through the air. This is especially true in high speed flight, since the power required increases at about the cube of the speed."4
Thus, prior to the war British, American, and particularly German researchers concentrated their efforts to develop various methods to deal with this problem.
Various methods were tried and pursued during the war, including the use of micro-porous sensitized metal called "Luftschwamm " (literally, "air sponge) as both a lift surface and an intake vent for a jet turbine. The goal was simply to suction the boundary layer itself from the lift surface, thereby dramatically decreasing drag, and increasing efficiency and performance at high speed.
According to Vesco, the Germans gradually reached some intriguing conclusions in these experiments:
The first was that it was not advantageous to transform ordinary aircraft into planes with a controlled boundary layer because the suction principle was deprived of its best attributes and the difficulties of construction did not compensate for the limited advantages....
In addition, it was demonstrated that inasmuch as they were planning a special turbine-powered project, it would have been advantageous to combine the two mechanisms into a single whole by feeding the turbine with air taken from the wing orifices instead of by the means of the usual forward-ram air intakes.
....It seems, in fact, that by reworking the old experiments on "potential frictionless current," the German technical experts may in the final days have succeeded experimentally in reducing aerodynamic friction on appropriately shaped bodies to very low values.5
4 Vesco and Childress, Man-Made UFOs: 50 Years of Suppression, pp. 188-189.
5 Ibid., p. 193, emphasis in the original.
This idea had also occurred to the British as well, but apparently the Germans had had no little success in combining micro-porous "sinterized" air permeable lift surfaces and turbine intakes, for a British postwar report,
"A.R.C. No. 9672: Notes on German Theoretical Work on Porous Suction - all the notes taken from the examination of German researches on porous materials (for which a special team of investigators had been formed)," were compared with similar British work done during the war.
The report, as Vecco notes, "still bears the label 'top secret.'"6
What the Germans were apparently trying to do was simply build a disk-shaped aircraft, the entire surface of which was both the turbine intake, as well as the lift surface. This was, so to speak, the "Mark I" flying saucer: a standard suction aircraft, albeit, with a very unconventional lift surface, which was one and the same as its fuselage and air intake.
However, Vesco maintained more in his book, namely, that the "Foo Fighters" - the strange balls of light that Allied and German pilots began to see accompanying their formations near the end of the war - were in fact an even more revolutionary radio-controlled anti-aircraft weapon, used to jam Allied radars via very small, ceramic-cased miniaturized klystron tubes, or to actually down Allied planes by firing ionized gases to short out, or even explode, an aircraft's ignitions or engines. In this respect, Vesco's assertions became more detailed, and simultaneously, more fanciful and easily dismissed. For one thing, Vesco claimed that these were secret German anti-aircraft weapons, a claim that seemed to fly in the face of absurdity, since the official history of their sighting never associated the loss of any Allied aircraft with them. In fact, they appeared quite harmless according to all standard versions of the history of their appearance.
Once again, only recently has the German perspective on "Foo Fighters" been verified by a February 1945 report called "An Evaluation of German Capabilities in 1945." This report, among other things, lists a German "phoo bomb" as well as atom bombs. Miniaturized klystron tubes, as well as German advances in silicon and germanium crystals, two elements essential in the making of semiconductors which in turn are the basis of the transistor, were actually under development as well.7 Most of this research was burned by the Germans in the face of the Allied advance into the Reich, and the rest fell into American hands.
6 Vesco and Childress, op. cit., pp. 212-213.
7 Henry Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers: A Guide to German Flying Disks of the Second World War, p. 75.
And this raises a significant problem, for the miniaturization of the klystron tube to a scale in some cases only a tenth as large as similar tubes in the Allied inventory, raises the specter of how far the Germans actually progressed in their semiconductor research. In any case, as researcher Henry Stevens notes, this bit of information provides the "missing provenance" to the origins of the transistor, and "explodes an argument made by the late Col. Philip J. Corso that "transistors were, at least in part, based upon alien technology."8
This will not be the first time we encounter a potential "German problem," as opposed to an "E.T. problem," with respect to Roswell and other celebrated crash recovery accounts.
One of the unusual aspects of Vesco's claims, and again, one that brought him under a certain amount of criticism, was his claim that an Italian engineer and turbine specialist named "Bellonzo" had been involved in the Nazi saucer projects. As no Bellonzo could be found, this assertion was apparently a fabrication, until one Dr. Giuseppi Belluzo, indeed a specialist in steam turbines, showed up to corroborate the story. Why is this significant?
Because in 1980 the German magazine Neue Presse featured an article about the German fluidics engineer Heinrich Fleissner. Fleissner was an engineer, designer and advisor to what he calls a "Flugscheibe" project based at Peenemuende during the war. It is interesting to note that Fleissner's area of expertise, fluidics, is exactly the specialty involved in investigating problems with boundary layer flow. Fleissner reports that the saucer with which he was involved would have been capable of speeds up to 3,000 kilometers per hour within the earth's atmosphere and up to 10,000 kilometers per hour outside the earth's atmosphere.
He states that the brains of the developmental people were found in Peenemuende under the tightest secrecy. .... What is of most interest to us here are three facts. First, that Fleissner worked at Peenemuende on a flying saucer project. Second, that a hint of this design has survived to this day. Third, the surviving design can be linked to photographic evidence of German saucer, circa World War Two.9
8. Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 75. Stevens of course is referring to Corso's well-known and controverisal book, The Day After Roswell.
9 Ibid., p. 90.
Let us pause to note that according to Fleissner there was a saucer project at Peenemunde and that it apparently involved the "suctioned boundary layer" concept we have already discussed. As we shall see, there will be an odd, little noticed connection that might corroborate the existence of this program when we examine the Roswell crash in the next part of this book.
Stevens continues with his summary of Fleissner:
Almost ten years after the war, on March 28, 1955, Heinrich Fleissner filed a patent application with the United States Patent Office for a flying saucer (Patent number 2,939,648).... The engine employed by Fleissner rotated around the cabin on the outside of the saucer disk itself. It was set in motion by starter rockets... The difference is that this engine was really a form of ram-jet engine. It featured slots running around the periphery of the saucer into which air was scooped. The slots continued obliquely right through the saucer disk so that jet thrust was aimed slightly downward and backward from the direction of rotation. Within the slots, fuel injectors and a timed ignition insured a proper power curve which was in accordance with the speed and direction of the saucer much like an automobile's fuel injection is timed to match the firing of the spark plugs. Steering was accomplished by directing the airflow using internal channels contained an rudder and flaps which ran alongside the central cabin. The cabin itself was held stationary or turned in the desired direction of flight using a system of electromagnets and servo-motors coupled with a gyroscope.10
Almost ten years after the war, on March 28, 1955, Heinrich Fleissner filed a patent application with the United States Patent Office for a flying saucer (Patent number 2,939,648)....
The engine employed by Fleissner rotated around the cabin on the outside of the saucer disk itself. It was set in motion by starter rockets... The difference is that this engine was really a form of ram-jet engine. It featured slots running around the periphery of the saucer into which air was scooped. The slots continued obliquely right through the saucer disk so that jet thrust was aimed slightly downward and backward from the direction of rotation.
Within the slots, fuel injectors and a timed ignition insured a proper power curve which was in accordance with the speed and direction of the saucer much like an automobile's fuel injection is timed to match the firing of the spark plugs. Steering was accomplished by directing the airflow using internal channels contained an rudder and flaps which ran alongside the central cabin. The cabin itself was held stationary or turned in the desired direction of flight using a system of electromagnets and servo-motors coupled with a gyroscope.10
But Fleissner was not awarded his patent until five years later! The question is, why the delay? One reason for the delay is that the joint Canadian-American suction-saucer project, Project Silverbug, was also under development at the same time. Fleissner's patent was incomparably superior. At about the same time as his patent was granted the Canadian-American project was canceled.11
10. Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 90.
11. Ibid., p. 92.
But why was the Fleissner design superior? Perhaps because the patent detailed the way the earlier Peenemunde saucer was able to function both inside and outside the atmosphere. In short, the power plant for the unusual ram-jet was capable of utilizing both jet fuel for in-atmosphere flight, and once outside the atmosphere, the suction vents could be closed, and the fuel shifted to a mixture of liquid oxygen and hydrogen.
"Is this performance enough to impress the U.S. Air Force and civilian population of the late 1940s and early 1950s? The answer is clearly in the affirmative."12
But what has this to do with an Italian steam turbine expert? Very simply, because when the craft was in its,
"rocket mode, when the saucer is burning only liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen, the products of this combustion are only heat and water. Another way to say heat and water is steam."13
And steam, of course, hisses, a sound sometimes associated with close observation of UFOs.
From this simple, though unconventional, configuration of known technologies, the Germans would have progressed by elementary science and engineering principles to the next, "Mark II," stage. How could such a craft's range be extended? The answer -one which likewise occurred to American physicist Thomas Townsend Brown - was that the jet turbine itself could be coupled with a large electrical generator to become a source of electrical power.
With sufficient super-cooling (remember Nowak's "molecular bomb"?) and sufficient electrical charge, even inert gases such as nitrogen, which forms the bulk of the earth's atmosphere, could be burned as fuel. Of course, while the theory is simple the engineering is monstrously difficult, but the advantages were plainly to be seen,
"A saucer which could gather its fuel along the way has one obvious advantage. It could stay aloft for days if not weeks."14
The next step, "Mark III," was imply to apply already existing German research in nuclear powered "conventional" craft to this unconventional airframe.15 Was such a saucer ever actually built? An article by Jim Wilson in the November 2000 issue of Popular Mechanics discloses a project to design a chemical-nuclear powered saucer craft for long-duration orbital missions, a craft tipped with nuclear missiles and bombs.
12 .Henry Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, pp. 92, 95.
13. Ibid., p. 97.
14. Ibid, p. 99.
15. Ibid., p. 101.
The project was allegedly based on wartime German designs, and its development was assisted by captured German personnel.16
16 Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 106.
All this, extraordinary as it sounds, is however nothing more than the unconventional blending of very conventional technology and ideas, a methodology we have encountered before in the German secret weapons black projects. What happens therefore, when these conventional technologies are not only combined in unconventional ways, but with the very unconventional physics that the Germans may have been developing? With this question, we are at the entrance into the "Mark IV" saucer prototypes, saucers based on combinations of turbines, vorticular physics, and field propulsion. With it, we are similarly at the very deepest secret levels of Kammler's "think tank."
C. Viktor Schauberger: Rotational Physics and Extreme Temperature Gradients
The story of Viktor Schauberger (image right), an Austrian forester and naturalist, is well-known to any who have investigated claims of Nazi development of flying saucers. Yet, there are aspects of this story that have escaped even Nick Cook or meticulous researchers such as Henry Stevens.
These aspects concern three key areas:
(1) His concern with "implosion", extremes of temperature gradients, and vorticular motion were coupled with his detailed study of ancient mathematical doctrines and "occulted physics" within ancient doctrines and philosophical texts. In short, Schauberger was the ideal candidate, from the SS's point of view, to lead a project involved with areas of physics and esoteric systems that were central to the SS ideology; (2) His project was directly connected to the SS and, much to Schauberger's own moral disgust and distaste, was forced to use slave labor from concentration camps. Thus, what many have missed, is that this fact places Schauberger's saucer project firmly within the orbit of the Kammlerstab; (3) Schauberger realized the implications for his "implosion" physics were such that a "super-super bomb" of unbelievable power could be constructed. This means, in effect, that quirky though some of Schauberger's terminology and ideas might seem from a conventional physics standpoint - he was, after all, a "naturalist" and self- taught physicist and inventor - his ideas were well within the framework being developed in quantum mechanics and the unusual "aether vortex" theories of physicists and engineers like Hilgenberg, Krafft, or even the great Gerlach himself.
(3) Schauberger realized the implications for his "implosion" physics were such that a "super-super bomb" of unbelievable power could be constructed. This means, in effect, that quirky though some of Schauberger's terminology and ideas might seem from a conventional physics standpoint - he was, after all, a "naturalist" and self- taught physicist and inventor - his ideas were well within the framework being developed in quantum mechanics and the unusual "aether vortex" theories of physicists and engineers like Hilgenberg, Krafft, or even the great Gerlach himself.
In a nutshell, Schauberger's theories bring us to the very edge of what appear to be a wartime effort - a well funded, and deeply black effort - on the part of the SS to understand the relationship of the zero point energy, rotating fields, and gravity.
1. His Basic Conceptions Schauberger began his little known and quite unconventional career as an "unorthodox physicist" as a forester for the Austrian government. One observation -a breathtakingly simple one -launched him on his career. One day Schauberger observed a trout in a clear, fast moving stream. The trout was stationary in the swift current, using a minimum of effort to remain in place: a flick of a fin here, a small movement of the tail there. As he pondered this well-known, but little understood fact, he came to the realization that the trout was using far less energy to remain motionless than conventional physics would allow. After all, the fish should have been swimming like crazy just to stand still. But that was not all. Schauberger then wondered how the trout, again with so little apparent effort and expenditure of work, could suddenly leap from the water several feet, and land upstream against the current. Schauberger decided to study the phenomenon. What he found was the fish seemed somehow to employ extremes of temperature to achieve their stationary place, or, conversely, to leap suddenly from the water against a swift current. As molecules "condensed", they cooled, and gave off energy in the form of heat. But Schauberger added one factor that brought him into the realm of the unconventional vorticular physics that Hilgenberg, Gerlach, Krafft, and others in Germany were developing: whenever such "condensing" took place naturally in nature, it was accomplished by a spiraling motion toward the center of a vortex, a form of motion he called "implosion." Schauberger speculated that, by deliberately forcing matter into such a motion, by deliberately compressing it via a spiral vorticular motion, matter might reach such a state that particles in atoms becomes "unglued" and transform into a new form of energy. In short, what Schauberger was proposing was a form of cool plasma, brought about by vorticular motion.17 Schauberger supplemented this idea with all manner of study of natural examples of these types of spirals, well known to mathematicians to incorporate the Golden Section, and the Fibonacci sequence. In his own quirky way and terminology, Schauberger was talking about "cold plasmas" and cold fusion, concepts well in advance of any physics of his day, conventional or otherwise. 17 Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 121; Callum Coats, Living Energies: Viktor Schauberger's Brilliant Work with Natural Energy Explained, pp. 30-66. These ideas led Schauberger - like his more orthodox quantum mechanics contemporaries - to the conclusion that energy was relatively free and limitless if one only knew how to tap into it. And with extreme temperature gradients, rotating media and compression of matter to an intense plasma state - Schauberger thought he knew how. These ideas quickly brought him to the attention of a fellow Austrian who was interested in energy independence for his own reasons: Adolf Hitler. In what surely must be one of the most surreal meetings ever held between an "orthodox mainstream physicist", a political leader, and an "alternative science" proponent, Schauberger was invited - summoned would be a more appropriate word - to Berlin for a private audience with Reichskanzler Hitler. A measure of the importance that Hitler attached to this meeting may be gleaned from the fact that once Schauberger had accepted Hitler's invitation, his diplomatic papers were expedited in one day.18 Callum Coats then describes the surreal meeting: Hitler.... greeted him warmly as a fellow countryman, telling him that he had studied all the reports about Viktor's work thoroughly and was very impressed with what he had learned. Thirty minutes had been allocated for the discussions, which Prof. Max Planck had been requested to attend as scientific adviser shortly before he was rudely deposed from his position as Privy Councilor. This exchange of views eventually lasted 1 1/2 hours, during which Schauberger explained the destructive action of contemporary technology and its inevitable consequences. He contrasted this with all the processes of natural motion and temperature, of the vital relation between trees, water and soil productivity, indeed all the things he considered had to be thoroughly understood and practiced in order to create a sustainable and viable society. When Viktor had finished his explanations, Max Planck, who had remained silent, was asked his opinion about Viktor's natural theories. His response was the remarkable and revealing statement that 'Science has nothing to do with Nature.' 19 18. Callum Coats, Living Energies, p. 8.19. Ibid., pp. 8-9. Nothing further came of the meeting, but the lecture had undoubtedly made an impression on Hitler, if not on Max Planck. It was in 1943 that Schauberger's formal contact and work on a saucer project for the SS began. (Schauberger) was declared fit for active duty and was inducted into the Waffen-SS, very much under duress. He came under the control of Heinrich Himmler, who forced him into research to develop a new secret weapon. Provided with suitable accommodation at Schloss Schonbrunn, the nearby Mauthausen Concentration Camp to supply the workforce of prisoner engineers, Viktor was threatened with his life if he did not comply with orders and carry out this research. In spite of these threats, however, Viktor put his foot down and demanded from the SS Command the absolute right to select the various engineers he needed. He further demanded that any technicians he chose were to be removed entirely from the camp, fed properly, dressed in normal civilian clothes and billeted in civilian accommodation, otherwise they would be unproductive. As he explained, people who live in fear of their lives and under great emotional stress could work neither consistently nor creatively. Surprisingly the SS agreed and so Viktor selected somewhere between twenty and thirty engineers, craftsmen and tradesmen front Mauthausen, to be accommodated in various houses near the plant.20 20 Coats, Living Energies, p. 11. It is to be noted that the induction of Schauberger into the SS, the use of concentration camp labor, and the SS's behavior in allowing Schauberger fall latitude to pursue his project in the manner he wished, even as regards the housing of the concentration camp workers, are all classic signatures of Kammler's "think tank" group. In short, this is very strong evidence that Schauberger's team was one component of the Kammlerstab. Few of the scientists and engineers Schauberger collected for his project understood what he was trying to construct. And it is difficult to get a measure of just exactly what Schauberger did accomplish, since all of his wartime German patents have simply disappeared, no one knows where. 2. His Disks and Turbines It seems certain, however, that Schauberger's disks approached the boundary between the German "suction" saucers and field propulsion craft proper, as a glance at Schauberger's own postwar reconstructions of what these craft looked like will demonstrate. A postwar design exists for a home electricity generator based upon a simple, though quite unusual, jet turbine. This "Tornado Generator" employed a turbine that in turn was made up, not of blades, but of hollow, antelope-horn-like spiraling tubes. Once air was forced into this turbine and its tubes, it was then compressed, via the spiraling motion of the air through the horns, until it escaped, expanded, and pushed the whole tube-turbine assembly along. This expanding air was then recirculated to the turbine, where it was again compressed, and so on.
1. His Basic Conceptions
Schauberger began his little known and quite unconventional career as an "unorthodox physicist" as a forester for the Austrian government. One observation -a breathtakingly simple one -launched him on his career. One day Schauberger observed a trout in a clear, fast moving stream. The trout was stationary in the swift current, using a minimum of effort to remain in place: a flick of a fin here, a small movement of the tail there.
As he pondered this well-known, but little understood fact, he came to the realization that the trout was using far less energy to remain motionless than conventional physics would allow. After all, the fish should have been swimming like crazy just to stand still. But that was not all. Schauberger then wondered how the trout, again with so little apparent effort and expenditure of work, could suddenly leap from the water several feet, and land upstream against the current. Schauberger decided to study the phenomenon.
What he found was the fish seemed somehow to employ extremes of temperature to achieve their stationary place, or, conversely, to leap suddenly from the water against a swift current.
As molecules "condensed", they cooled, and gave off energy in the form of heat. But Schauberger added one factor that brought him into the realm of the unconventional vorticular physics that Hilgenberg, Gerlach, Krafft, and others in Germany were developing: whenever such "condensing" took place naturally in nature, it was accomplished by a spiraling motion toward the center of a vortex, a form of motion he called "implosion."
Schauberger speculated that, by deliberately forcing matter into such a motion, by deliberately compressing it via a spiral vorticular motion, matter might reach such a state that particles in atoms becomes "unglued" and transform into a new form of energy. In short, what Schauberger was proposing was a form of cool plasma, brought about by vorticular motion.17 Schauberger supplemented this idea with all manner of study of natural examples of these types of spirals, well known to mathematicians to incorporate the Golden Section, and the Fibonacci sequence. In his own quirky way and terminology, Schauberger was talking about "cold plasmas" and cold fusion, concepts well in advance of any physics of his day, conventional or otherwise.
17 Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 121; Callum Coats, Living Energies: Viktor Schauberger's Brilliant Work with Natural Energy Explained, pp. 30-66.
These ideas led Schauberger - like his more orthodox quantum mechanics contemporaries - to the conclusion that energy was relatively free and limitless if one only knew how to tap into it. And with extreme temperature gradients, rotating media and compression of matter to an intense plasma state - Schauberger thought he knew how. These ideas quickly brought him to the attention of a fellow Austrian who was interested in energy independence for his own reasons: Adolf Hitler.
In what surely must be one of the most surreal meetings ever held between an "orthodox mainstream physicist", a political leader, and an "alternative science" proponent, Schauberger was invited - summoned would be a more appropriate word - to Berlin for a private audience with Reichskanzler Hitler. A measure of the importance that Hitler attached to this meeting may be gleaned from the fact that once Schauberger had accepted Hitler's invitation, his diplomatic papers were expedited in one day.18
Callum Coats then describes the surreal meeting:
Hitler.... greeted him warmly as a fellow countryman, telling him that he had studied all the reports about Viktor's work thoroughly and was very impressed with what he had learned.
Thirty minutes had been allocated for the discussions, which Prof. Max Planck had been requested to attend as scientific adviser shortly before he was rudely deposed from his position as Privy Councilor. This exchange of views eventually lasted 1 1/2 hours, during which Schauberger explained the destructive action of contemporary technology and its inevitable consequences. He contrasted this with all the processes of natural motion and temperature, of the vital relation between trees, water and soil productivity, indeed all the things he considered had to be thoroughly understood and practiced in order to create a sustainable and viable society.
When Viktor had finished his explanations, Max Planck, who had remained silent, was asked his opinion about Viktor's natural theories. His response was the remarkable and revealing statement that 'Science has nothing to do with Nature.' 19
18. Callum Coats, Living Energies, p. 8.19. Ibid., pp. 8-9.
Nothing further came of the meeting, but the lecture had undoubtedly made an impression on Hitler, if not on Max Planck. It was in 1943 that Schauberger's formal contact and work on a saucer project for the SS began.
(Schauberger) was declared fit for active duty and was inducted into the Waffen-SS, very much under duress. He came under the control of Heinrich Himmler, who forced him into research to develop a new secret weapon. Provided with suitable accommodation at Schloss Schonbrunn, the nearby Mauthausen Concentration Camp to supply the workforce of prisoner engineers, Viktor was threatened with his life if he did not comply with orders and carry out this research.
In spite of these threats, however, Viktor put his foot down and demanded from the SS Command the absolute right to select the various engineers he needed. He further demanded that any technicians he chose were to be removed entirely from the camp, fed properly, dressed in normal civilian clothes and billeted in civilian accommodation, otherwise they would be unproductive. As he explained, people who live in fear of their lives and under great emotional stress could work neither consistently nor creatively. Surprisingly the SS agreed and so Viktor selected somewhere between twenty and thirty engineers, craftsmen and tradesmen front Mauthausen, to be accommodated in various houses near the plant.20
20 Coats, Living Energies, p. 11.
It is to be noted that the induction of Schauberger into the SS, the use of concentration camp labor, and the SS's behavior in allowing Schauberger fall latitude to pursue his project in the manner he wished, even as regards the housing of the concentration camp workers, are all classic signatures of Kammler's "think tank" group. In short, this is very strong evidence that Schauberger's team was one component of the Kammlerstab.
Few of the scientists and engineers Schauberger collected for his project understood what he was trying to construct. And it is difficult to get a measure of just exactly what Schauberger did accomplish, since all of his wartime German patents have simply disappeared, no one knows where.
2. His Disks and Turbines
It seems certain, however, that Schauberger's disks approached the boundary between the German "suction" saucers and field propulsion craft proper, as a glance at Schauberger's own postwar reconstructions of what these craft looked like will demonstrate. A postwar design exists for a home electricity generator based upon a simple, though quite unusual, jet turbine.
This "Tornado Generator" employed a turbine that in turn was made up, not of blades, but of hollow, antelope-horn-like spiraling tubes. Once air was forced into this turbine and its tubes, it was then compressed, via the spiraling motion of the air through the horns, until it escaped, expanded, and pushed the whole tube-turbine assembly along. This expanding air was then recirculated to the turbine, where it was again compressed, and so on.
Needless to say, the construction of such a complicated turbine would have required the most exacting machining and engineering skills. There is every indication that a similar device or turbine became the basis of Schauberger's wartime research. Coats reproduced the following series of photographs and schematics of Schauberger's wartime "Repulsine" saucer in his book Living Energies: Photos of the "Repulsine" The "Compression" Turbine of the Repulsine 213 German Schematic of the "Repulsine" 214 Nick Cook, who followed the Schauberger trail via Coats and his research on the Austrian naturalist's strange ideas back to Germany, commented at length in his book as follows: Something about this whole strand of development had conspired to make it the most classified form of technology in existence. Even more so than the bomb. Unlike the bomb, however, this was a secret that had held for more than 50 years. Days after the end of the war, US intelligence agents found Schauberger in Leonstein and apprehended him. Exactly as the (Nazi UFO) Legend had it, the agents, who were almost certainly Counter- intelligence Corps -the same outfit that had detained and interrogated Skoda's director Wilhelm Voss - were remarkably well informed about his entire operation. It was as if, Schauberger noted later, someone had guided them directly to him.21 21 Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 220. Very few people would have been in position to familiarize US intelligence with the parameters of Schauberger's research or its exact location, but one of them would most certainly have been SS ()bergruppenfuhrer Hans Kammler. Cook continues: That night, back at my hotel, I applied myself to a study of the Schauberger effect that had been written up by a researcher called Callum Coats. I had picked up a copy of one of his books at the Schauberger institute. In it, there was a description of what happened when a Repulsine was rotated at 20,000 rpm. The high rotation speeds appeared to cause the air molecules passing through the turbine to pace so tightly together that their molecular and nuclear binding energies were affected in a way that triggered the anti-gravity effect. 'A point is reached where a large number of electrons and protons with opposite charges and directions of spin are forced into collision and annihilate with one another,' Coats wrote. 'As lower rather than higher forms of energy and the basic building blocks of atoms, they are upwardly extruded as it were out of the physical and into virtual states.' Virtual states? What the hell did that mean? ....'I stand face to face with the apparent "void", the compression of dematerialization that we are wont to call a "vacuum",' Schauberger had written in his diary on 14 August 1936. 'I can now see that we are able to create anything we wish for ourselves out of this "nothing".'22 That is, the vacuum for Schauberger and his rotational, vorticular concepts, was but another "supercompressed" and "supercooled" state of matter. In any case, one test of such a Schauberger saucer allegedly took place in Prague in 1945, breaking loose from its test anchor, it quickly flew upward hitting the roof of the building. Given the extraordinary latitude accorded to Schauberger by his SS controllers - doubtless up to and including Kammler himself - it is evident that "the German scientific leadership was interested in implosion and in what Schauberger had to teach them but they did not necessarily want to be limited by the use of air to achieve these results. Instead, they may have wanted to use Schauberger ideas but actuating these principles with electronic components.,"23 22 .Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 221. 23.Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 128, emphasis added. This will lead, as we shall shortly see, to the most fantastic projects of all in the Kammler Group's esoteric think tank. Whatever can be said, Schauberger's unorthodox approach to jet turbine design certainly, and by all accounts, was wildly successful, so much so that he became the object of a curious attempt by some Americans to develop the idea. 3. Implosion and the USA As was seen, Viktor Schauberger and his unorthodox ideas came to the attention of US intelligence at the end of the war. And thus was launched the strangest episode in Schauberger's already strange career, the "American Episode".24 24 .The best and most complete history of this episode is in Callum Coats' Living Energies, pp. 15- 28. My treatment of it here relies upon Coats, with the exception of my interpretation of its significance. Coats himself notes that the data for this period is precariously slim: "Before embarking on this last and lamentable chapter in Viktor Schauberger's life, I would like to state at the outset that significant and verifiable detail about it is extremely difficult to ascertain, mainly because all those involved, with the exception of KarlGerchsheimer with whom I spent two days, have passed away in the interim. In whatever information is available concerning this tragedy, there is a profusion of conflicting statements, interpretations and timetables which, 37 years after the event, makes the unraveling of what precisely took place in this, for all concerned, abortive endeavour rather problematic." (p. 15) The difficulties Schauberger experienced during his stay in America were similar to those he encountered first in Austria, and then later during his famous visit with Hitler and Planck. First, being self-taught, he did not possess the physicist's technical language with which to express his ideas. Thus, he invented his own technical language, and often the translation between the two was difficult. Second, Schauberger having already witnessed the theft and disappearance of his patents by the Nazis, was understandably reluctant to be completely forthcoming to his American "friends." Finally, Schauberger no longer had working prototypes of any of the devices he had built.25 Schauberger was first brought to the attention of a group of private American "investors" by one Karl Gerchsheimer, who emigrated from Germany in 1922, eventually settling in Texas and marrying an American wife in 1937. According to Coats, it appears that Gerchsheimer became involved with the US military during World War Two in its Counter-intelligence Corps, eventually becoming the man in charge of all transport, logistics, and accommodation for the American army of occupation in Germany after the war. He returned to the USA in 1950 and established a metal fabrication company, manufacturing a number of items for NASA under contract.26 25 Ibid., p. 15. 26. Ibid., p. 16. In this capacity Gerchsheimer befriended wealthy American Philadelphia steal magnate Robert Donner. Gerchsheimer's familiarity with Schauberger's work, doubtless acquired during his Counter-intelligence years in Germany, and his disenchantment with Dr. Von Braun's rocket program, led him to propose to Donner that they visit Schauberger in Germany personally, to offer him the opportunity of private development of his "implosion" ideas. Gerchsheimer sold the project to Dormer - an intense patriot -by maintaining it would ensure American technological dominance for decades to come. A meeting in Bavaria was linally arranged between Gerchsheimer, Walter Schaubcrger (Viktor's son), and Viktor. Eventually squeezing out the European competition for his ideas with promises of large funding, Gerchsheimer was able to persuade Viktor to come to America. As part of the contract, negotiated for an American stay of three months, it was agreed that "Walter Schauberger, a physicist and mathematician, was to accompany his father and would be expected to stay for a year in order to assist in the scientific interpretation of Viktor's ideas for which there was often no recognized scientific terminology."27 Schauberger also stipulated that his trusted machinist, Alois Renner, who had collaborated with him in the construction of several of his devices, be brought to the USA as well. Gerchsheimer was of the opinion, however, that Walter Schauberger "neither knew nor understood much about his father's theories."28 Eventually, the two Schaubergers flew to Dallas, and then were driven to Sherman, Texas, where they were virtually interred as the "house guests" of Donner associate Harald W. Totten on his ranch. Gerchsheimer quickly became disenchanted with Schauberger's ideas, which appeared to him to be increasingly so much gobbledygook. Having communicated these concerns to Robert Donner, who became concerned for the success of his project, Donner flew to Brookhaven's National atomic Research laboratories to seek expert scientific opinion. He secured the services of a technician who also spoke German, Eric A. Boerner, who was sufficiently familiar with the terminology of nuclear physics "to be able to translate and transmit any information to the scientific evaluators that the Schaubergers might provide."29 27. Coats, Living Energies, p. 18. 28. Ibid, p. 19. 29. Ibid., p. 22. Viktor Schauberger spent about 10 days from August 20th to August 31st writing reports to Boerner. He had been instructed to write them in his own words, without regard to attempt to use "proper" scientific terminology. Because of the actual physical distance between the Schaubergers and Eric Boerner, and the intermediatorship of Gerchsheimer, the Schaubergers gained the impression that it was Boerner himself who headed an important particle accelerator project then underway at Brookhaven. And this in turn magnified their fears about the possible motivations behind the sudden American interest in their "implosion" concepts. Walter Schauberger admitted that in the process of producing their reports, it dawned on them that a bomb could possible be produced through implosion that was magnitudes more powerful than the hydrogen bomb. Assuming Boerner to be more influential than he was, Viktor and Walter became convinced that all the information they were supplying to him was being passed directly to the U.S. government and the military.30 While Coats himself downplays this potentiality, it is worth recalling that a similar "compression-decompression" principle lay behind the "molecular" bomb of Dr. Nowak, and hence, their concerns may have come less from a misunderstanding of Boerner's role, and more from an acquaintance with the work being done by the SS in Nazi Germany. In any case, I do not believe it is entirely fair to the Schaubergers to discount the possibility that the whole "private funding" venture via Robert Donner and Karl Gerchsheimer was not an operation designed to place into the hands of the US military and its research facilities the fundamental outlines of Schauberger's concepts. In any case, a meeting was held on the Totten Ranch in early September 1958. Present were the two Schaubergers, Robert Donner, Boerner, and possibly Viktor Schauberger's machinist, Alois Renner. Based principally on the reports he had received, Boerner reported to the group that Project implosion was "a viable proposition." Boerner believed that "the solution of the problem of energy lay in the proper interpretation of Max Planck's equation E=hv, formulated in 1900, and the Freidrich Hasenohrl-Albert Einstein equation E=Mc2." 31 30. Coats, Living Energies, p. 23. 31. Ibid., p. 23. Coats rightly notes that is was first Hasenohrl who had postulated the equation in 1903 in the form of m=E/c2(p. 29, n. 27). Hasenohrl's equation is slightly different than Einstein's which is properly E=Mc2, where the capital M stands for a mass difference between two observed masses, rather than simply a lower case "m", which stands simply for mass. The point is picky, but important, as the mass difference as Einstein formulated it is crucial to the point he is developing in Special Relativity Doubtless Boerner had in mind a rather remarkable paper that Walter had included in his reports, a paper that related these two fundamental equations, plus Kepler's Third Law of Planetary Motion.32 In any case, with Viktor's health failing and his insistence to be returned to his beloved Austria as quickly as possible, the situation quickly deteriorated between the Schaubergers and Donner. Donner essentially held the two Austrians hostage until Viktor signed a contract handing over all of his ideas, inventions, and conceptions to the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium. Only with considerable pressure was Donner even persuaded to provide Viktor with a German translation! Coats himself states: I have studied this document myself and it does state in quite unequivocal terms that not only were all Viktor's models, sketches, prototypes, reports and other data to become the sole property of the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium, but that Viktor was to commit himself to total silence on anything connected with implosion thereafter.... The deplorable upshot of all this, however, is that all Viktor's models, prototypes, drawings, detailed data, including Professor Popel's original report implying what might be termed "negative Friction" was an actuality, have remained the possession of the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium. That this report was actually part and parcel of this project is confirmed by Viktor's reference to it in one of his reports to Boerner dated 23/24 August 1958.33 32 Coats, Living Energies, pp. 24-25 contains a synopsis of this rather remarkable idea. Needless to say, the paper is not the twenty-six dimensional monster of modern string theory. 33 Ibid., p. 27. What does all this mean? For one thing, it means that during the precise period that Nick Cook notes that all references to anti-gravity research began to disappear in the British and American Press, an American industrialist, with obvious ties to the defense and nuclear research agencies of the USA, had successfully obtained all of the papers of one of Nazi Germany's most deeply classified research projects scientists. For another, it seems to indicate that there may have been more to the science Schauberger had propounded than orthodox mainstream science will admit to, or that the contemporary military will allow to be discussed. In any case, it is clear that Schauberger's ideas fit in quite well with the vorticular and dynamic aether ideas of the vacuum energy flux potential, or Zero Point Energy, apparently under theoretical development in Nazi Germany both by "orthodox" and by less mainstream scientists. As we shall see, there is every indication that these ideas themselves were put to the test. Before we turn to that however, it is necessary to examine yet another fantastic aspect of Nazi Science: the "Death Ray."
Needless to say, the construction of such a complicated turbine would have required the most exacting machining and engineering skills. There is every indication that a similar device or turbine became the basis of Schauberger's wartime research.
Coats reproduced the following series of photographs and schematics of Schauberger's wartime "Repulsine" saucer in his book Living Energies:
Photos of the "Repulsine"
The "Compression" Turbine of the Repulsine 213
German Schematic of the "Repulsine" 214
Nick Cook, who followed the Schauberger trail via Coats and his research on the Austrian naturalist's strange ideas back to Germany, commented at length in his book as follows:
Something about this whole strand of development had conspired to make it the most classified form of technology in existence. Even more so than the bomb.
Unlike the bomb, however, this was a secret that had held for more than 50 years.
Days after the end of the war, US intelligence agents found Schauberger in Leonstein and apprehended him. Exactly as the (Nazi UFO) Legend had it, the agents, who were almost certainly Counter- intelligence Corps -the same outfit that had detained and interrogated Skoda's director Wilhelm Voss - were remarkably well informed about his entire operation. It was as if, Schauberger noted later, someone had guided them directly to him.21
21 Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 220.
Very few people would have been in position to familiarize US intelligence with the parameters of Schauberger's research or its exact location, but one of them would most certainly have been SS ()bergruppenfuhrer Hans Kammler.
Cook continues:
That night, back at my hotel, I applied myself to a study of the Schauberger effect that had been written up by a researcher called Callum Coats. I had picked up a copy of one of his books at the Schauberger institute. In it, there was a description of what happened when a Repulsine was rotated at 20,000 rpm. The high rotation speeds appeared to cause the air molecules passing through the turbine to pace so tightly together that their molecular and nuclear binding energies were affected in a way that triggered the anti-gravity effect. 'A point is reached where a large number of electrons and protons with opposite charges and directions of spin are forced into collision and annihilate with one another,' Coats wrote. 'As lower rather than higher forms of energy and the basic building blocks of atoms, they are upwardly extruded as it were out of the physical and into virtual states.'
That night, back at my hotel, I applied myself to a study of the Schauberger effect that had been written up by a researcher called Callum Coats. I had picked up a copy of one of his books at the Schauberger institute. In it, there was a description of what happened when a Repulsine was rotated at 20,000 rpm. The high rotation speeds appeared to cause the air molecules passing through the turbine to pace so tightly together that their molecular and nuclear binding energies were affected in a way that triggered the anti-gravity effect.
'A point is reached where a large number of electrons and protons with opposite charges and directions of spin are forced into collision and annihilate with one another,' Coats wrote. 'As lower rather than higher forms of energy and the basic building blocks of atoms, they are upwardly extruded as it were out of the physical and into virtual states.'
Virtual states? What the hell did that mean?
....'I stand face to face with the apparent "void", the compression of dematerialization that we are wont to call a "vacuum",' Schauberger had written in his diary on 14 August 1936. 'I can now see that we are able to create anything we wish for ourselves out of this "nothing".'22
That is, the vacuum for Schauberger and his rotational, vorticular concepts, was but another "supercompressed" and "supercooled" state of matter.
In any case, one test of such a Schauberger saucer allegedly took place in Prague in 1945, breaking loose from its test anchor, it quickly flew upward hitting the roof of the building. Given the extraordinary latitude accorded to Schauberger by his SS controllers - doubtless up to and including Kammler himself - it is evident that "the German scientific leadership was interested in implosion and in what Schauberger had to teach them but they did not necessarily want to be limited by the use of air to achieve these results. Instead, they may have wanted to use Schauberger ideas but actuating these principles with electronic components.,"23
22 .Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 221.
23.Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 128, emphasis added.
This will lead, as we shall shortly see, to the most fantastic projects of all in the Kammler Group's esoteric think tank. Whatever can be said, Schauberger's unorthodox approach to jet turbine design certainly, and by all accounts, was wildly successful, so much so that he became the object of a curious attempt by some Americans to develop the idea.
3. Implosion and the USA
As was seen, Viktor Schauberger and his unorthodox ideas came to the attention of US intelligence at the end of the war. And thus was launched the strangest episode in Schauberger's already strange career, the "American Episode".24
24 .The best and most complete history of this episode is in Callum Coats' Living Energies, pp. 15- 28. My treatment of it here relies upon Coats, with the exception of my interpretation of its significance. Coats himself notes that the data for this period is precariously slim: "Before embarking on this last and lamentable chapter in Viktor Schauberger's life, I would like to state at the outset that significant and verifiable detail about it is extremely difficult to ascertain, mainly because all those involved, with the exception of KarlGerchsheimer with whom I spent two days, have passed away in the interim. In whatever information is available concerning this tragedy, there is a profusion of conflicting statements, interpretations and timetables which, 37 years after the event, makes the unraveling of what precisely took place in this, for all concerned, abortive endeavour rather problematic." (p. 15)
The difficulties Schauberger experienced during his stay in America were similar to those he encountered first in Austria, and then later during his famous visit with Hitler and Planck.
First, being self-taught, he did not possess the physicist's technical language with which to express his ideas. Thus, he invented his own technical language, and often the translation between the two was difficult. Second, Schauberger having already witnessed the theft and disappearance of his patents by the Nazis, was understandably reluctant to be completely forthcoming to his American "friends." Finally, Schauberger no longer had working prototypes of any of the devices he had built.25
First, being self-taught, he did not possess the physicist's technical language with which to express his ideas. Thus, he invented his own technical language, and often the translation between the two was difficult.
Second, Schauberger having already witnessed the theft and disappearance of his patents by the Nazis, was understandably reluctant to be completely forthcoming to his American "friends." Finally, Schauberger no longer had working prototypes of any of the devices he had built.25
Schauberger was first brought to the attention of a group of private American "investors" by one Karl Gerchsheimer, who emigrated from Germany in 1922, eventually settling in Texas and marrying an American wife in 1937. According to Coats, it appears that Gerchsheimer became involved with the US military during World War Two in its Counter-intelligence Corps, eventually becoming the man in charge of all transport, logistics, and accommodation for the American army of occupation in Germany after the war. He returned to the USA in 1950 and established a metal fabrication company, manufacturing a number of items for NASA under contract.26
25 Ibid., p. 15.
26. Ibid., p. 16.
In this capacity Gerchsheimer befriended wealthy American Philadelphia steal magnate Robert Donner. Gerchsheimer's familiarity with Schauberger's work, doubtless acquired during his Counter-intelligence years in Germany, and his disenchantment with Dr. Von Braun's rocket program, led him to propose to Donner that they visit Schauberger in Germany personally, to offer him the opportunity of private development of his "implosion" ideas. Gerchsheimer sold the project to Dormer - an intense patriot -by maintaining it would ensure American technological dominance for decades to come.
A meeting in Bavaria was linally arranged between Gerchsheimer, Walter Schaubcrger (Viktor's son), and Viktor. Eventually squeezing out the European competition for his ideas with promises of large funding, Gerchsheimer was able to persuade Viktor to come to America. As part of the contract, negotiated for an American stay of three months, it was agreed that "Walter Schauberger, a physicist and mathematician, was to accompany his father and would be expected to stay for a year in order to assist in the scientific interpretation of Viktor's ideas for which there was often no recognized scientific terminology."27
Schauberger also stipulated that his trusted machinist, Alois Renner, who had collaborated with him in the construction of several of his devices, be brought to the USA as well. Gerchsheimer was of the opinion, however, that Walter Schauberger "neither knew nor understood much about his father's theories."28 Eventually, the two Schaubergers flew to Dallas, and then were driven to Sherman, Texas, where they were virtually interred as the "house guests" of Donner associate Harald W. Totten on his ranch.
Gerchsheimer quickly became disenchanted with Schauberger's ideas, which appeared to him to be increasingly so much gobbledygook. Having communicated these concerns to Robert Donner, who became concerned for the success of his project, Donner flew to Brookhaven's National atomic Research laboratories to seek expert scientific opinion. He secured the services of a technician who also spoke German, Eric A. Boerner, who was sufficiently familiar with the terminology of nuclear physics "to be able to translate and transmit any information to the scientific evaluators that the Schaubergers might provide."29
27. Coats, Living Energies, p. 18.
28. Ibid, p. 19.
29. Ibid., p. 22.
Viktor Schauberger spent about 10 days from August 20th to August 31st writing reports to Boerner. He had been instructed to write them in his own words, without regard to attempt to use "proper" scientific terminology. Because of the actual physical distance between the Schaubergers and Eric Boerner, and the intermediatorship of Gerchsheimer, the Schaubergers gained the impression that it was Boerner himself who headed an important particle accelerator project then underway at Brookhaven. And this in turn magnified their fears about the possible motivations behind the sudden American interest in their "implosion" concepts.
Walter Schauberger admitted that in the process of producing their reports, it dawned on them that a bomb could possible be produced through implosion that was magnitudes more powerful than the hydrogen bomb. Assuming Boerner to be more influential than he was, Viktor and Walter became convinced that all the information they were supplying to him was being passed directly to the U.S. government and the military.30
While Coats himself downplays this potentiality, it is worth recalling that a similar "compression-decompression" principle lay behind the "molecular" bomb of Dr. Nowak, and hence, their concerns may have come less from a misunderstanding of Boerner's role, and more from an acquaintance with the work being done by the SS in Nazi Germany. In any case, I do not believe it is entirely fair to the Schaubergers to discount the possibility that the whole "private funding" venture via Robert Donner and Karl Gerchsheimer was not an operation designed to place into the hands of the US military and its research facilities the fundamental outlines of Schauberger's concepts.
In any case, a meeting was held on the Totten Ranch in early September 1958. Present were the two Schaubergers, Robert Donner, Boerner, and possibly Viktor Schauberger's machinist, Alois Renner. Based principally on the reports he had received, Boerner reported to the group that Project implosion was "a viable proposition." Boerner believed that "the solution of the problem of energy lay in the proper interpretation of Max Planck's equation E=hv, formulated in 1900, and the Freidrich Hasenohrl-Albert Einstein equation E=Mc2." 31
30. Coats, Living Energies, p. 23.
31. Ibid., p. 23. Coats rightly notes that is was first Hasenohrl who had postulated the equation in 1903 in the form of m=E/c2(p. 29, n. 27). Hasenohrl's equation is slightly different than Einstein's which is properly E=Mc2, where the capital M stands for a mass difference between two observed masses, rather than simply a lower case "m", which stands simply for mass. The point is picky, but important, as the mass difference as Einstein formulated it is crucial to the point he is developing in Special Relativity
Doubtless Boerner had in mind a rather remarkable paper that Walter had included in his reports, a paper that related these two fundamental equations, plus Kepler's Third Law of Planetary Motion.32 In any case, with Viktor's health failing and his insistence to be returned to his beloved Austria as quickly as possible, the situation quickly deteriorated between the Schaubergers and Donner. Donner essentially held the two Austrians hostage until Viktor signed a contract handing over all of his ideas, inventions, and conceptions to the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium. Only with considerable pressure was Donner even persuaded to provide Viktor with a German translation! Coats himself states:
I have studied this document myself and it does state in quite unequivocal terms that not only were all Viktor's models, sketches, prototypes, reports and other data to become the sole property of the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium, but that Viktor was to commit himself to total silence on anything connected with implosion thereafter.... The deplorable upshot of all this, however, is that all Viktor's models, prototypes, drawings, detailed data, including Professor Popel's original report implying what might be termed "negative Friction" was an actuality, have remained the possession of the Donner-Gerchsheimer consortium. That this report was actually part and parcel of this project is confirmed by Viktor's reference to it in one of his reports to Boerner dated 23/24 August 1958.33
32 Coats, Living Energies, pp. 24-25 contains a synopsis of this rather remarkable idea. Needless to say, the paper is not the twenty-six dimensional monster of modern string theory.
33 Ibid., p. 27.
What does all this mean? For one thing, it means that during the precise period that Nick Cook notes that all references to anti-gravity research began to disappear in the British and American Press, an American industrialist, with obvious ties to the defense and nuclear research agencies of the USA, had successfully obtained all of the papers of one of Nazi Germany's most deeply classified research projects scientists. For another, it seems to indicate that there may have been more to the science Schauberger had propounded than orthodox mainstream science will admit to, or that the contemporary military will allow to be discussed.
In any case, it is clear that Schauberger's ideas fit in quite well with the vorticular and dynamic aether ideas of the vacuum energy flux potential, or Zero Point Energy, apparently under theoretical development in Nazi Germany both by "orthodox" and by less mainstream scientists. As we shall see, there is every indication that these ideas themselves were put to the test.
Before we turn to that however, it is necessary to examine yet another fantastic aspect of Nazi Science: the "Death Ray."
D. "Death Rays ": An Unusual Installation at the University of Heidelberg
During World War One, as is well known, Nicola Tesla approached first the US, and then European military establishments with the idea for a "death ray", a high energy beam capable of melting "airplane motors" at some distance. Between the World Wars, in almost every western country, science fiction movies played on the concept, with one very popular movie with Boris Karloff, ever the quintessential "mad scientist", playing a crazed inventor tinkering with death rays and world domination. Similar "Buck Rogers" type gadgetry delighted movie goers in Britain, Germany, France, and Italy before the Second World War.
Then, as the Nazi UFO Mythos emerged, astonishing and specific claims began to be advanced, again by the same circle of a few disenchanted postwar Nazi sympathizers, of astounding beam weapons, of Motorstoppmittel (Means to Stop Motors), a device that resembles modern electromagnetic pulse weapons designed to knock out electronic circuitry, of electromagnetic rail guns, and of a mysterious weapon the Germans were working on called a Kraftstrahlkanone, a "Strong Ray Canon". The device was first reported by Henry Stevens.34
34 Henry Stevens, German Research Project, The German Death Rays.
The Kraftstrahlkanone Schematic Reproduced by Henry Stevens
This odd looking L-shaped weapon comprised some sort of crystal, then a series of hollow tubes, each focusing whatever beam was generated to a narrower and narrower point, until it emerged from a small hole, with allegedly deadly effectiveness, though limited range. What the crystal was, we do not know. What sort of beam was generated, we do not know, though the hollow tubes in declining ratios would seem to indicate that it was some sort of acoustic wave, though why a crystal would have been used is unclear. For these reasons, the weapon was usually dismissed as a flight of fancy, and Stevens critiqued for reproducing it.
However, with very recall experiments and advances in physics, we are in a position to conjecture what the weapon may have been, and what principle the Germans may have discovered - decades early, to be sure - that may have been behind its operation. An experimental, and highly theoretical and mathematical paper entitled "On the Existence of Undistorted Progressive Waves (UPWs) of Arbitrary Speeds 0<v<oo in Nature," by Waldyr A Rodrigues Jr. and Jian-Yu Lu was published in October of 1997.
Investigating a class of Undistorted Waves, i.e., a class of wave forms that do not diminish in form or force over distance, they show that various solutions for these waves can be found within the standard equations for such waves.35 If this paper were merely another mathematical swipe at relativity - demonstrating solutions to certain equations that the "relativity police" would issue a speeding ticket for - then it would be easily dismissible.
Unfortunately, the authors' main points are not the abstruse mathematical demonstrations and proofs, but rather, a method for generating such waves. First noticing that solutions for Maxwell's equations in a waveguide had both subluminal and superluminal solutions,36 they went on to propose a simple method for generating and for measuring the velocities of such wave structures.
The method was called "Finite Aperture Approximation," basically, a method of squeezing acoustic or longitudinal waves through a very small hole, and observing the waveform interference pattern that emerged on the other side, and calculating the velocity, not of the wave, but of the interference pattern itself. If one knows the radius of the aperture and the strength and frequency of the pulse being squeezed through it, one knows the approximate depth of the Finite Aperture Approximation's resulting wave interference pattern.37
36 Ibid., p. 4.
37 Ibid., pp. 4-6, particularly Eq. 2.7 on p. 6. i.e., the scalar homogeneous wave equation, the Klein-Gordon equation, the Maxwell equations, and the Dirac and Weyl equations have such solutions, even in the vacuum. (Rodriguez and Jian-yu, "On the Existence of Undistorted Progressive Waves (UPWs) of Arbitrary Speeds 0<v<oo in Nature," p. 1.
The results of experiments with at acoustic longitudinal pulses led the authors to conclude,
"these results... give us confidence that electromagnetic subluminal and superluminal waves may be physically launched with appropriate devices."38
Additionally, the authors of this unusual paper are "quite sure" that such a wave interference pattern "can be launched over a large distance."39 Then come the bombshells:
If we take into account this feet together with the results of the acoustic experiments described in section 2, we arrive at tin- conclusion that subluminal electromagnetic pulses... and also superluminal X-waves can be launched with appropriate antennas using present technology ... Nevertheless, the electromagnetic X-wave that is an interference pattern is such that its peak travels with speed c/cos (ni) > 1.the question arises: Is the existence of superluminal electromagnetic waves in conflict with Einstein's Special Relativity?40
While this is not the place to summarize their lengthy mathematical critique of Special Relativity, based on their experiments, it is worth noting that the existence of this little known and recently discovered class of waves, or more specifically, wave-interference systems, "implies a breakdown of the Principle of relativity in both its active...and passive...versions."41
38. Ibid., p. 7.
39. Ibid., p. 18.
40. Ibid., p. 21.
41. Ibid., p. 36. The authors' critique of these two versions of Relativity and their dominance in theoretical and experimental physics is highly mathematical and, in a word, thought-provoking.
What emerges from a comparison of this paper and the alleged Kraftstrahlkanone is that apparently the Germans may have discovered and been conducting research into a similar, if not identical, phenomenon, a phenomenon that others would call a crucial component of scalar physics: electromagnetic wave-interference to produce a wave-system of superluminal and deadly force. They were, it seems, experimenting with some weaponized form of a Finite Aperture Approximation device. But why a crystal?
In part, perhaps, because as is well known, crystals under stress, and acoustic bombardment would be one form of stress, give off minute packets of electrical energy via the piezo-electric effect. But they also give off minute packets of sound, or "phonons", as well. But beyond this allegation, is there any other indication that the Germans were after exotic "post-nuclear" generation weaponry? There is indeed some indication that the Germans were involved with extensive research into "Tesla" technology and weaponry and other exotic particle beam technology at the University of Heidelberg.
As Mayer and Mehner report, there is in available documentation that some type of atomic research was being conducted at Ludwigshafen by none other than I.G. Farben. But this research "had in reality more to do with the development of the so-called 'death rays'."42 In a file dated December 1, 1944 on this research, it was noted that the work force was moved from Ludwigshafen to Heidelberg in July of 1943.43
This facility in Heidelberg was completely underground, being some 50 meters long and 25 meters wide, with a roof from 8 to 10 meters high, of .75 and 1 meter thickness. The entire bunker complex, as detailed in the diagram on the next page, consisted of a large parabolic reflector made of quartz, a "polytron," a power circuit running the circumference of the bunker, a storage area for various electrical equipment behind the quartz reflector, a generator and a transformer, a "stand" on which various targets for disintegration were placed, and a control-observation booth to the side of the stand. The quartz parabolic reflector was approximately one centimeter thick.44
42. Mayer and Mehner, Die Atombombe und das Dritte Reich, p. 73, my translation. 43 Ibid. 44 Ibid., p. 75.
An American intelligence report declassified only in 1998 described the experiments conducted with this and similar apparatus as follows:
Experiments: The experiments involved a large, elaborate atom-smashing apparatus, the main features of which were four "Spruehpole" (positive) and one "Fangpol" (negative), each about 6 m high. Liberated protons were conveyed through a quartz tube to the Spruehpole, from which they were "fired" at an object placed on a quartz plate up to 800 m distant. This resulted... in the complete disintegration of the object. The first two experiments of this kind ... took place in Dec 43 and Jan 44. In one a 10 cm cube of steel (grade ST0012) was disintegrated within four-tenths of a second, The object in the second experiment was water, contained in a large quartz tube, tiled so that the "rays" would strike the largest possible surface. The water disappeared in two tenths of a second. The most spectacular experiment was conducted early April 1944, when some 75 rats were made to disappear in the same way. The experiment was photographed from the quartz-enclosed observation tower, and PW claims there was no trace of smoke or flame, nor did any ashes remain on the iron plate. His explanation of this apparent violation of the laws of physics is that the rats were somehow reduced to a gas, which was absorbed by the iron plate. PW's Evaluation: PW doubts that the principle involved in the experiments described above could be adapted to military use in less than two years. The apparatus is extremely complicated and far too large to be moved readily.45
Experiments: The experiments involved a large, elaborate atom-smashing apparatus, the main features of which were four "Spruehpole" (positive) and one "Fangpol" (negative), each about 6 m high. Liberated protons were conveyed through a quartz tube to the Spruehpole, from which they were "fired" at an object placed on a quartz plate up to 800 m distant. This resulted... in the complete disintegration of the object.
The first two experiments of this kind ... took place in Dec 43 and Jan 44. In one a 10 cm cube of steel (grade ST0012) was disintegrated within four-tenths of a second, The object in the second experiment was water, contained in a large quartz tube, tiled so that the "rays" would strike the largest possible surface. The water disappeared in two tenths of a second.
The most spectacular experiment was conducted early April 1944, when some 75 rats were made to disappear in the same way. The experiment was photographed from the quartz-enclosed observation tower, and PW claims there was no trace of smoke or flame, nor did any ashes remain on the iron plate. His explanation of this apparent violation of the laws of physics is that the rats were somehow reduced to a gas, which was absorbed by the iron plate.
PW's Evaluation: PW doubts that the principle involved in the experiments described above could be adapted to military use in less than two years. The apparatus is extremely complicated and far too large to be moved readily.45
This experimentation sounds like a much more sophisticated high voltage direct current form of Tesla's direct current impulse experiments, as well as of the unusual accidental disappearances of tools and equipment in a US Navy arc-welding facility that prompted an investigation led by none other than T. Townsend Brown during World War Two.46
45 Harald FSth, Geheime Kommandosache- S III Jonastal und die Siegeswaffenprodiktion: Weitere Spurensuche nach Thuringens Manhattan Project, p. 107.
46 q.v. my Giza Death Star Deployed, pp. 212-214.
E. Indications of Zero Point Energy and Scalar Physics Experimentation
There are a number of strong indications that the Germans were also experimenting with a variety of "Tesla" like devices that could, conceivably, also be called Zero Point Energy devices. In 1978, the British government finally declassified a British Intelligence Objectives Sub-Committee (BIOS) report on two curious circuits devised by German naval engineer and inventor, Hans Coler (or Kohler).
Entitled The Invention of Hans Coler, Relating to an Alleged New Source of Power," B.I.O.S. Final Report no 1043, Item No. 31, Summer 1946, this report consisted of tests and findings on two strange circuits conducted at the University of Berlin between the World Wars under the auspices of none other than Dr. Schumann, discoverer of the Schumann resonance of the earth.47
47 The report is reprinted by the Integrity research Institute, 1422 K Street NW, Suite 204, Washington, D.C. 20005.
A mere glance will explain why the device attracted the immediate attention of the German Navy, which classified it as a possible source of quiet and limitless energy for submarine propulsion.
It will be noted that this hexagonal construction of coils and magnets and two "rotating" sub-circuits has absolutely no source of power. Yet, to the mystified Coler and Dr. Schumann, it nevertheless managed to produce, or better, transduce, power seemingly from nowhere.
Little is known how much farther the Germans took this device, or for that matter, how far the British took it for the two decades and a half after the war that they had to work on it until its declassification. What is unusual is that Dr. Schumann was involved with secret German research on "batteries" as late as 1943, and was subsequently brought to the United State as part of Operation Paperclip. It was this same Dr. Schumann who had noted in 1926 that Hans Coler's device exhibited "no fault, hoax, or fraud on the part of its inventor."48
Such "free energy" devices seemed to have come very early to the attention of the leadership of the Third Reich - witness the meeting between Hitler, Planck, and Schauberger - and more especially to the attentions of the SS. Devices involving pulsed Tesla coils, suspiciously similar to Tesla's own "Impulse Magnifying Transformer" were constructed.49
48 Henry Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, pp. 168-169.
49 Ibid., p. 168.
One such device, the so-called Karl Schappeller Device, bears close scrutiny, since it bears resemblances to another device found by Nick Cook and described in his Hunt for Zero Point. This odd device is described by Henry Stevens as follows:
The Schappeller device is really composed of two separate units, the rotor and the stator. The stator is constructed as follows: its surface is round or ball-shaped, being composed of two half-shells of steel. These half-shells contain the internal structure and are air tight. Attached at each "pole" of each half-shell is an iron bar magnet, most of whose structure is internal. This means that the bulk of the magnet is inside the steel ball, one opposite the other. There is a space between the two bar magnets at the very center of the sphere. Insulation, a ceramic material, is placed on the inside of the steel ball leaving a hollow central area. Within this hollow area and around the space between the magnets are wound two internal coils. These originate at the bar magnet poles and each terminate at the center of the sphere with a connection leading out of the sphere to the rotor. These coils are composed of a hollow copper tube filled with a special and secret substance called the "electret". Upon leaving the sphere the electret filled copper tubes are replaced by conventional copper wire. An electrical connection is made from the outside surface of one pole to one pole of a special type of battery which is grounded at the other pole... This electret is a permanent magnet within the sphere... The actual composition of Schappeller's electret remains a secret but another electret has been made by Professor Mototaro Eguchi. It consists of carnauba wax and resin, perhaps also containing some beeswax. It was kept in a strong electrical field while baking slowly until it solidified.50
The Schappeller device is really composed of two separate units, the rotor and the stator. The stator is constructed as follows: its surface is round or ball-shaped, being composed of two half-shells of steel. These half-shells contain the internal structure and are air tight. Attached at each "pole" of each half-shell is an iron bar magnet, most of whose structure is internal. This means that the bulk of the magnet is inside the steel ball, one opposite the other. There is a space between the two bar magnets at the very center of the sphere.
Insulation, a ceramic material, is placed on the inside of the steel ball leaving a hollow central area. Within this hollow area and around the space between the magnets are wound two internal coils. These originate at the bar magnet poles and each terminate at the center of the sphere with a connection leading out of the sphere to the rotor. These coils are composed of a hollow copper tube filled with a special and secret substance called the "electret". Upon leaving the sphere the electret filled copper tubes are replaced by conventional copper wire.
An electrical connection is made from the outside surface of one pole to one pole of a special type of battery which is grounded at the other pole... This electret is a permanent magnet within the sphere... The actual composition of Schappeller's electret remains a secret but another electret has been made by Professor Mototaro Eguchi. It consists of carnauba wax and resin, perhaps also containing some beeswax. It was kept in a strong electrical field while baking slowly until it solidified.50
50 Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, p. 177. 229
Before proceeding to how this device allegedly operated, it is important to note that this device bears strong resemblance in some respects to a device called "the Bell" uncovered by Nick Cook and his researches, covered below. Moreover, we shall see how the sum total of all these strange coils, spheres, and Bells will sound only familiar with devices alleged in two famous UFO crashes after the war.
Returning now to the Schappeller device and its operation, for Schappeller the "neutral area", called the Bloch wall in a bar magnet, where the polarity is neither "north" nor "south", was of great interest and significance to Schapeller. In the Schappeller device it is noted that the empty area between the two magnets corresponds with this Bloch wall of neutrality.51 It is this "neutral area" that is the area electrically charged by grounding when the device is put into operation. The result is a "new kind" of magnetism, a glowing magnetism in which, according to Schappeller's interpreters, electricity is stationary and magnetism is radiated.52
At the Bloch Wall, "the point of zero magnetism, no spin and magnetic reversal, is the point, so Schappeller theorized, energy enters and is radiated, in the form of gravity. Thus, according to one interpreter, gravity is a quadropole (four poles, rather than two poles), 360 degree radiated push.53
But most astonishing about the little known Schappeller were his extraordinarily revolutionary, and prescient, views on thermodynamics, views that, in his day, would have had him roundly dismissed as a crackpot, but some 35 years later, became an exciting new area of physics and chemistry research. That area is non-equilibrium thermodynamics and systems kinetics.
Schappeller had something to say about the Second Law of Thermodynamics. He said there was another and unknown thermodynamic cycle which runs opposite the Second Law. To name this idea we will call it "Reverse Thermodynamics". It is the reverse of the Second Law of Thermodynamics in that it leads to an increase in entropy. Not only is there an increase in order by there is an increase in cold! Schappeller.... built his spherical device primarily to demonstrate the principles behind this Reverse thermodynamics. It was not designed as a practical machine.54
51 Stevens, Hitler's Flying Saucers, pp. 178-179.
52 Ibid., p. 179.
53 Ibid., p. 181.
54 Ibid., p. 182.
Both Schappeller and Schauberger were implying a physics based, not on inanimate lifeless processes, the physics we have come to know, but on animate, creative processes hut Schappeller's views on hydrodynamics were truly revolutionary, and some decades ahead of their time, until Ilya Prigogine won the Nobel prize in chemistry precisely for his pioneering work on self-organizing principles evident in systems driven to a high state of non-equilibrium in 1977.55 The new paradigm, a breathtakingly simple, and yet far-reaching one, was simply that equilibrium had been replaced with non-equilibrium in physics, especially for systems analysis. 56
55 q.v. Ilya Prigogine, and G. Nicolis, Self-Organization in Non-Equilibrium Systems: From Dissipative Structures to Order Through Fluctuations, (J. Wiley & Sons, New York) 1977.
56 I shall explore the significance of this paradigm in my next work on the Great Pyramid and the recent topological papers by Krasnoholovets and Bounias.
1. RAM Four-Wave Mixing The German experiments with prototype Radar Absorbent Materials (RAM) was mentioned previously. In these experiments, according to Lt. Col. Tom Bearden (USAF, Ret.), that the Germans in late 1945 discovered that radar waves on such non-linear material resulted in the phenomenon of a superluminal, longitudinal "pressure" wave. In doing so, the Germans had brought the paradigms of physics far beyond the conventions of the "linear" physics that was being perfected in Allied laboratories, largely under the aegis of the Manhattan Project. Consider the information that has been assembled thus far: (1) They did not reject a concept of aether, but rather, replaced the static nineteenth century idea with a dynamic aether; (2) This aether then gave rise to the forces and particles of conventional physics via various morphological combinations of vorticular, rotating structures, thus, its principle manner of thinking was non-linear and, in a word, purely topological; (3) These views were simultaneously allied both with occult doctrines of "primal matter" or life force or "Vril" or whatever one wishes to call it on the one hand, and with the construct called the Zero Point Energy that resulted from the equations of quantum mechanics, a very "German", "Aryan" science; (4) They were pursuing exotic ideas and technologies in unconventional combinations, the most salient features of which can be summarized as a concentration on: (a) Pulsed high voltage and "focusing" effects; (b) High rpm turbines and other such rotating devices; (c) Non-equilibrium; (d) Finite Aperture apparati; (e) Radioactivity and nuclear particle research; (f) The effects of extremes of temperature on the density state of matter as a means of generating enormous explosive destructive power; and finally, (g) The use of quartz and other crystals in generating some of these effects.57
1. RAM Four-Wave Mixing
The German experiments with prototype Radar Absorbent Materials (RAM) was mentioned previously. In these experiments, according to Lt. Col. Tom Bearden (USAF, Ret.), that the Germans in late 1945 discovered that radar waves on such non-linear material resulted in the phenomenon of a superluminal, longitudinal "pressure" wave. In doing so, the Germans had brought the paradigms of physics far beyond the conventions of the "linear" physics that was being perfected in Allied laboratories, largely under the aegis of the Manhattan Project.
Consider the information that has been assembled thus far:
(1) They did not reject a concept of aether, but rather, replaced the static nineteenth century idea with a dynamic aether; (2) This aether then gave rise to the forces and particles of conventional physics via various morphological combinations of vorticular, rotating structures, thus, its principle manner of thinking was non-linear and, in a word, purely topological; (3) These views were simultaneously allied both with occult doctrines of "primal matter" or life force or "Vril" or whatever one wishes to call it on the one hand, and with the construct called the Zero Point Energy that resulted from the equations of quantum mechanics, a very "German", "Aryan" science; (4) They were pursuing exotic ideas and technologies in unconventional combinations, the most salient features of which can be summarized as a concentration on: (a) Pulsed high voltage and "focusing" effects; (b) High rpm turbines and other such rotating devices; (c) Non-equilibrium; (d) Finite Aperture apparati; (e) Radioactivity and nuclear particle research; (f) The effects of extremes of temperature on the density state of matter as a means of generating enormous explosive destructive power; and finally, (g) The use of quartz and other crystals in generating some of these effects.57
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
57 Korsching's odd comment about artificial rubies at Farm Hall should be recalled in this regard.
With these thoughts in mind, we now approach what may be the most sensational experiment the Germans undertook during the War. The device was called simply, "The Bell", and its shocked and dumbfounded discoverer was Nick Cook.
2. The Brotherhood of the "Bell"
In the 1960s, a movie with Glenn Ford and a young Dabney Coleman, playing a small part as a government agent, was made. The movie was about a secret society allegedly at work behind the scenes in American society and politics, to manipulate research grants and control the direction of society. In the movie, Ford plays a member of this society who is served his "due bill" for all the favors the society has granted him, and forced to betray a Hungarian friend in order to deny that friend a crucial academic post and grant. His friend is named Dr. Hlavaty.
I have always thought that perhaps the movie's Dr. Hlavaty was not so fictional, being perhaps based on the brilliant Hungarian physicist, Vaclav Hlavaty, who attempted a six-dimensional solution to the Unified Field Theory that had eluded Dr. Einstein. Whatever the truth of that hypothesis, it is perhaps interesting to note that the "Brotherhood of the Bell" seemed to exist for no other purpose than to suppress certain types of research, or at least, to keep it out of the public eye.
It should come as no surprise, then, that there was a "brotherhood of the Bell" during World War Two, for one of the most strange objects the Germans were experimenting on was a device that was known simply as "The Bell." So sensitive and secret was this device, that when it was evacuated from its underground secret laboratory in Lower Silesia prior to the Russian occupation of the area, the SS shot the approximately 60 scientists - doubtless on Kammler's orders - that were involved with this strange object.58
The Bell consisted apparently of two counter-rotating cylinders, and resembled a Bell in its general shape. It stood approximately 12 to 15 feet high, and was approximately 9 to 12 feet in diameter.59
58 Nick Cook, The Hunt for Zero Point, p. 187 For a fuller discussion of the Bell and its mysterious properties, consult my Giza Death Star Deployed, pp. 121-128.
59 Cook, op. cit, pp. 191-193
Into this device, an unknown purplish metallic-liquid looking substance known only as "Xerum 525" or "Serum 525" was poured, apparently to be mechanically rotated at high speed, and possibly electrically rotated as well, by the device. The result was that organic objects placed within the field of the Bell swiftly decayed without putrefaction, decomposing into a black goo, and then finally, into dust, within a matter of hours, and not several weeks. So strong was the field that resulted from the Bell, that on its first test the technicians and scientists involved were all killed.
Subsequently, the Bell was operated only for one or two minutes at a time, and housing below ground in a room bricked and tiled with ceramic tiles, which were then covered in thick rubber mats. After each test, the mats were burned, and the room washed down by concentration camp inmates with brine.60 When Cook was shown the installation in which the Bell was housed, he was also informed of its high electrical consumption.61
What was the mysterious "Xerum 525?" When I first read of this substance which had to be stored in lead lined cylinders, I first thought it sounded like a radioactive isotope of mercury, or perhaps some other radioactive material suspended in solution of some sort. More recently, allegations have surfaced concerning the neutron emitting properties of so-called "red mercury" or mercury antimonate oxide, supposedly a source for detonating thermonuclear warheads without the necessity for detonating an atom bomb, and a powerful conventional explosive in its own right.
Whatever the mysterious substance was, it seems clear that it was highly radioactive, and that the Germans were subjecting it to extremely high mechanical and electrical rotations to study t h e resulting field effects, effects that Cook's advisors could only qualify as "torsion" fields.62
These fields are thought by some contemporary physicists to have direct relevance to the study of gravity, and of time.63 Close to the Bell's underground testing bunker the Germans had built a large concrete henge-like structure, in the pillars of which were high grade steel hooks, an obvious testing frame for what must have been an extremely powerful propulsion device.
What happened to the Bell? No one knows. Like Kammler, it goes completely missing at the end of the war, and its scientists, as already stated, were murdered to a man by the SS to keep whatever precious secrets it, and they, had uncovered.
60 Cook, op. cit., p. 192
61 Ibid., p.p. 182-183, 197.
62 Ibid., p.p. 192, 194
63 In this regard it is perhaps interesting to note that, years prior to the publication of Nick Cook's book, well-known science-fiction-horror-thriller author (whose genre and style is so compellingly unique), Dean Koontz, published a novel called Lightning, the theme of which was a wartime German experiment with a time machine that, coincidentally (?) consisted of rotating cylinders!
But as we shall discover in the next and final part of this book, the Bell may have surfaced again under very public, if not bizarre, circumstances.
Back to Contents
