# Secret Societies and Their Power in The 20th Century - 6

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/secretsoc_20century/secretsoc_20century06.htm

CHAPTER 32 ADOLF SCHICKLGRUBER AND THE THULE-GESELLSCHAFT To throw some light on the mysterious Third Reich and the role of Adolf Hitler I have to go a bit further afield. All over the world Germans were and since the last attacks on homes for people seeking political asylum still are linked to the Third Reich. But very few know the actual motives from that time.
One hears about the Aryan master race theory and the gassing of the Jews, but not one percent know about the origin of these. In their schoolbooks the German children are told of the evil Adolf Hitler who apparently, supported by aimed propaganda and mass hypnosis, was the only culprit of those events. They are not told from whom he took his ideology, who had put him into his position and, above all, who had financed him.
Actually, 95% of the financial support came from Jewish sources. Interesting, isnt it? The Allies had quite intentionally removed or forbidden all the books that could have uncovered this, and so today a dark mystic veil lies upon Germanys recent past. Therefore I consider it more than necessary to shed some light into this dark area, even if some theories will be thought by some to be outrageous. At least here you find the right stuff to discuss later.
Between 1880 and 1890 many personalities among them some of Englands most brilliant minds found together and formed THE HERMETIC ORDER OF THE GOLDEN DAWN Its members come largely for the Mother Grand Lodge of FREEMASONS and the ROSICRUCIANS. In a way the Golden Dawn was leading esoteric Freemasonry (rather positive) in England and was its innermost and most secret circle.
Members are, among others:
FLORENCE FARR; W.B. YEATS (Nobel prize for Literature)
BRAM STOKER (author of Dracula)
GUSTAV MEYRINK (author of The Golem and The Green Face)
ALEISTER CROWLEY (perhaps the best know magician of the last hundred years who later got into black magic, founder of the Thelma Church and 33rd degree Freemason of the Scottish Rite)
RUDOLF STEINER (founder of antroposophy, Freemason of the Scottish Rite, head of the German Theosophical Society, Grand Master of the Illuminati order ORDO TEMPLI ORIENTIS (OTO) and Grand Master of the branch MYSTERIA MYSTICA AETERNA, later left the Golden Dawn because of differing views).
Steiner refused to allow occultist Trebisch-Lincoln access to the Golden Dawn, a decision which later was held against him.
In 1917 the occultist BARON RUDOLF VON SEBOTTENDORF, the Gurdjieff disciple KARL HAUSHOFER, the ace pilot LOTHAR WAIZ, PRELATE GERNOT of the secret Societas Templi Marcioni (The Inheritors of the Knights Templar) and MARIA ORSIC, a transcendental medium from Zagreb, met in Vienna.
They all had extensively studied the Golden Dawn, its teachings, rituals and especially its knowledge about Asian secret lodges. Sebottendorf and Haushofer were experienced travelers of India and Tibet and much influenced by the teachings and myths of those places. During the First World War, Karl Haushofer had made contacts with one of the most influential secret societies of Asia, the Tibetan Yellow Hats (dGe-lugs-pa).
This sect was formed in 1409 by the Buddhist reformer Tsong-kha-pa. Haushofer was initiated and swore to commit suicide should his mission fail. The contacts between Haushofer and the Yellow Hats led in the Twenties to the formation of Tibetan colonies in Germany.
The four young people hoped that during these meeting in Vienna they would learn something about the secret revelatory texts of the KNIGHTS TEMPLAR and also about the secret fraternity DIE HERREN VOM SCHWARZEN STEIN (The Lords of the Black Stone). Prelate Gernot was on of the Inheritors of the Knights Templar, which to my knowledge are the only true Templar society. They are the descendants of the Templars of 1307 who passed on their secrets from father to son until today. Prelate Gernot apparently told them about the advent of a new age the change-over from the Age of Pisces to the Age of Aquarius.
They discussed that our solar year according to the twelve revolutions of the moon was divided into twelve months and thus the revolution of our sun around the great central sun (the BLACK SUN of ancient myths) was also divided into twelve parts. Together with the precession of the cone-shaped proper movement of the Earth due to the inclination of the axis, this determines the length of the world age.
Such a cosmic month is then 2,155 years, the cosmic year 25,860 years long. According to the Templars the next change is not just an ordinary change of the age, but also the end of a cosmic year and the start of an absolutely new one. By completing the 25,860 years the Earth is changing from the age with the weakest (Pisces) to the age with the strongest radiation (Aquarius). Indo-Aryan definition calls this the end of the Kali Yuga, the age of sin.
All age changes have led to political, religious, social and also geological upheavals of great impact. The time of change-over from the old to the new age is called in Mesopotamian teachings the three double steps of Marduk, of 168 years duration, at the mid-point of which the ILU ray, the Divine Ray, is expected to reach Earth.
The Templars did careful calculations and concluded that February 4, 1962 was the date the ray would reach Earth. This gave the mid-point of the 168 years change-over and the years 1934 and 1990 as other important dates.
The main part of the discussions dealt with the background of a section of the New Testament, Matthew 21:34. For there Jesus addresses the JEWS:
Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit.
The complete original text that is kept in the archives of the Societas Templi Marcioni says it even more clearly. But the point is: In that text Jesus actually names the people, He talks to Teutons serving in the Roman legion and He tells them that it is THEIR people that He had chosen. That was what Sebottendorf and his friends wanted to know for sure: That the Teutonic, i.e. the German people was commissioned to form the realm of light upon Earth in the Land of the Midnight Mountain (Germany). The place where the ray would meet the Earth was given as the Untersberg near Salzburg.
At the end of September 1917 Sebottendorf met with members of the Lords of the Black Stone at the Untersberg to receive the power of the Black-Purple Stone after which the secret society was named.
The Lords of the Black Stone who formed out of the Marcionite Templar societies in 1221 and were led by Hubertus Koch had set as their aim the fight against evil and the building of Christs realm of light. This dark power they were to fight had revealed himself in the so-called Old Testament through Moses and other medium as God, starting with the words by YHWH = JAHVEH = Jehovah to Abraham:
I am God Almighty!
In Hebrew:
Ani ha El Shaddai, translated: I am El Shaddai the outcast Archangel (Shaddai El) Sheitan or Satan (see the original translation of Genesis 17:1, e.g. in : The Bible, New International Version).
Sebottendorf clearly recognized: The Shaddai, the God of the Old Testament, is the destroyer, the antagonist of God. His followers therefore sought to destroy the Earth, Nature and humanity. And the followers were the believers in Mosaic Law, the Hebrews. (Remember the tenets of the Talmud!)
In the Gospel of John, 8:39-45, Jesus states this directly. There he addresses the Jews:
Abraham is our father, they (the Jews) answered. If you were Abrahams children, said Jesus, then you would do the things Abraham did. As it is, you are determined to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things. You are doing the things your own father does. We are not illegitimate children, they protested. The only Father we have is God Himself. Jesus said to them: If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and now am here. I have not come on my own; but He sent me. Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say. You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your fathers desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Yet because I tell the truth you do not believe me!
Abraham is our father, they (the Jews) answered. If you were Abrahams children, said Jesus, then you would do the things Abraham did. As it is, you are determined to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things. You are doing the things your own father does.
We are not illegitimate children, they protested.
The only Father we have is God Himself.
Jesus said to them:
If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and now am here. I have not come on my own; but He sent me. Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say. You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your fathers desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Yet because I tell the truth you do not believe me!
Today still many people naively ask: But why then did Hitler go against the Jews? I hope that the last few lines have shown you. In the eyes of the THULE-GESELLSCHAFT, from which later emerged the DAP (German Workers Party), the SS (Schutzstaffel), the Jewish people who had been charged by the Old Testament God JAHVEH to raise havoc on Earth were the reason why the world was always caught up in war and discord.
The Thule people knew about the Jewish banking systems, i.e., Rothschild and allies, and the Protocols of the Elders of Zion and felt it was their task to fight the Jewish people, but especially their banking and lodge system, in accordance with the Revelation of Sahaja, and to erect the realm of light upon Earth.
Authors Comment:
As you can see, these people were just as incapable to remedy the cause as their Lord Jesus had told them how to change the world with love for creation, for oneself and for the neighbor (and that neighbor can also be of another race or religion). But they had relinquished self-responsibility and gave it to a GUILTY on, a SATAN. Their hatred made them so blind that they never realized that they used the same weapons as the purportedly satanic God Jahveh they wanted to fight. They should have known though that one cannot achieve peace by war.
A circle formed around BARON RUDOLF VON SEBOTTENDORF that via the Teutonic Order in 1918 in Bad Aibling became the THULE-GESELLSCHAFT. The themes they tried to link to politics were scientific magic, astrology, occultism and Templar knowledge as well as Golden Dawn practices like Tantra, Yoga and Eastern meditation.
The Thule-Gesellschaft believed, following the revelation of Isais, in a Coming Savior (German: Heiland = the Holy One), the Third Sargon who would bring to Germany glory and a new Aryan culture.
Dietrich Bronder (Before Hitler Came) and E.R. Carmin (Guru Hitler) named the leading members as follows:
Baron Rudolf von Sebottendorf, Grand Master of the Order Guido von List, Master of the Order Jorg Lanz von Liebenfels, Master of the Order Adolf Hitler, Fuhrer, German Chancellor, SS Superior Rudolf Hess, Vice Fuhrer, and SS Obergruppenfuhrer Herman Goering, Reichsmarschall and SS Obergruppenfuhrer Heinrich Himmler, Reichsfuhrer SS and Reichsminister Alfred Rosenberg, Reichsminister and NS-Reichsleiter Hans Franck, Dr. Dr. h.c., NS-Reichsleiter and Governor General of Poland Julius Streicher, SA-Obergruppenfuhrer and Gauleiter of Franken Karl Haushofer, Prof. Dr., Major General ret. Gottfried Feder, Prof. Dr., Secretary of State ret. Dietrich Eckart, Editor in Chief of the Volkischer Beobachter Bernhard Stempfle, father confessor and confidant of Hitler Theo Morell, personal physician of Hitler Franz Gurtner, president of the police, Munich Rudolf Steiner, founder of the antroposophic teaching W.O. Schumann, Prof. Dr. at the Technical University Munich Trebisch-Lincoln, occultist and traveler to the Himalayas Countess Westrap AND MANY OTHERS...
Baron Rudolf von Sebottendorf, Grand Master of the Order
Guido von List, Master of the Order
Jorg Lanz von Liebenfels, Master of the Order
Adolf Hitler, Fuhrer, German Chancellor, SS Superior
Rudolf Hess, Vice Fuhrer, and SS Obergruppenfuhrer
Herman Goering, Reichsmarschall and SS Obergruppenfuhrer
Heinrich Himmler, Reichsfuhrer SS and Reichsminister
Alfred Rosenberg, Reichsminister and NS-Reichsleiter
Hans Franck, Dr. Dr. h.c., NS-Reichsleiter and Governor General of Poland
Julius Streicher, SA-Obergruppenfuhrer and Gauleiter of Franken
Karl Haushofer, Prof. Dr., Major General ret.
Gottfried Feder, Prof. Dr., Secretary of State ret.
Dietrich Eckart, Editor in Chief of the Volkischer Beobachter
Bernhard Stempfle, father confessor and confidant of Hitler
Theo Morell, personal physician of Hitler
Franz Gurtner, president of the police, Munich
Rudolf Steiner, founder of the antroposophic teaching
W.O. Schumann, Prof. Dr. at the Technical University Munich
Trebisch-Lincoln, occultist and traveler to the Himalayas
Countess Westrap
AND MANY OTHERS...
Later the Thule-Gesellschaft split in two, the esoterics (Greek: esoteros = the inner), among which counted Rudolf Steiner, and the exoterics (Greek: exoteros = the outer), who later were led by Hitler. The Thule-Gesellschaft is its inner core was peaceful in nature, besides knowing about the Illuminati and El Shaddai.
It was Hitler who became more radical. When Hitler had taken over the NSDAP, he prohibited the Thule and the Vril Gesellschaften after they had helped him to his position. Towards the end of the war he contacted them again, especially the Vril-Gesellschaft, because of their advanced technology and their special contacts.
A short history of THULE
ULTIMA THULE apparently was the capital city of the first continent peopled by Aryans. This was called HYPERBOREA and was older than Lemuria and Atlantis (continents with advanced cultures since submerged). The Scandinavians have a tale of Ultima Thule, the wonderful land in the high North, where the sun never sets and the ancestors of the Aryan race dwell.
Hyperborea was up in the North Sea and sank during an ice age. It is assumed that the Hyperboreans came from the solar system Alderbaran which is the main star in the constellation Taurus, and that they were about four meters tall, white, blond and blue-eyed.
They knew no war and wee vegetarians (so was Hitler). According to alleged Thule texts they were technically very advanced and flew Vril-ya, flying machines that today we call UFOs. These flying disks were capable of levitation, extreme speeds and the maneuvers known from todays UFOs due to two counter-rotating magnetic fields and they used the so-called Vril power as energy potential or fuel (Vril = ether, Od, Prana, Chi, Ki, cosmic force, Orgon , but also from the academic vri-IL = as the highest deity = God-like), i.e., they take the energy from the earths magnetic field (free energy) like the tachyon converter of Captain Hans Coler.
When HYPERBOREA began to sink the Hyperboreans are said to have burrowed with huge machines gigantic tunnels into the Earths crust and settled under the Himalayan region. The subterranean realm is called AGHARTA and its capital SHAMBALLAH. The Persians call this land Aryana the land of origin of the Aryans.
Here we should mention that Karl Haushofer claimed that Thule was actually called Atlantis and contrary to all other researchers of Tibet and India he said that the surviving Thule-Atlanteans were separated into two groups, a good one and an evil one. Those who called themselves after their oracle Agharta were the good and settled in the Himalayan region, the evil ones were the Shamballah who wanted to subjugate humanity and they went West.
He maintained that the fight between the people of Agharta and Shamballah had been going on for thousands of years and that in the Third Reich the Thule-Gesellschaft as Aghartas representative continued it against the representatives of Shamballah, the Freemasons and the Zionists. This perhaps was his mission.
The head of this subterranean region he said was Rigden Iyepo, the king of the world, with his representative upon the Earths surface, the Dalai Lama. Haushofer was convinced that the land below the Himalayas was the birthplace of the Aryan race, which he claimed to have confirmed during his Tibet and India travels.
The symbol of Thule was the swastika counter clockwise. Tibetan lamas and the Dalai Lama personally testified that people from Agartha were still living today. The subterranean land that is anchored in almost all Eastern traditions has spread over the millennia under all of the Earths surface with huge centers under the Sahara desert, the Matto Grosso and the Santa Catarina mountains in Brazil, Yucatan in Mexico, Mount Shasta in California, England, Egypt, Czechoslovakia.
It seems that Hitler especially sought to discover the entrances to the subterranean world Agartha and to get in contact with the descendants of the Aryan God people from Alderbaran-Hyperborea. In the myths and traditions of the subterranean world it is often said that the worlds surface was yet to suffer a terrible world war (Third World War) which would though be ended by earthquakes, other natural disasters and a switching of the poles and the deaths therefrom of two thirds of humanity.
After this last war the several races of the inner earth would reunite with the survivors on the surface and that the thousand-year GOLDEN AGE (age of Aquarius) would be rung in. Hitler wanted to build an outer Agartha or Aryana with the Aryan master race, and Germany should be its home. During the existence of the Third Reich two large expeditions were sent by the SS to the Himalayas to find those entrances.
Further expeditions searched in the Andes, the Matto Grosso mountains in the North and the Santa Catarina mountains in the south of Brazil, in Czechoslovakia and parts of England.
Some authors claim that the Thule people believed that quite independently of the subterranean tunnel and city system the Earth was HOLLOW, with two great openings at the poles. Natural laws were quoted, as above, so below. Since blood, body or egg cells, a comet or an atom all have a nucleus and a hollow space surrounding it that is enclosed by a corona radiata, an envelope, and the actual life is taking place in the core, one has deduced that the Earth was built after the same principles.
Druses confirmed this, as they were hollow and the life, the mineral and crystals, were in the interior. Therefore the Earth also had to be hollow apparently agreeing with the views of the Tibetan Lamas including the Dalai Lama and had a nucleus, the Central Sun (also called the Schwarze Sonne, the Black Sun) that gave the interior an even climate and permanent sunlight, corresponding in the microcosm to the central sun of the galaxy in the macrocosm.
They maintain that the actual life in our planet takes place in the interior the master race lives inside and the mutants on the surface and that this was also the reason why we wouldnt find any life upon other planets of our solar system, because their inhabitants live inside. The main entrances are at the North and South poles through which the central sun is shining and producing the aurora borealis. In the interior the land mass was exceeding the water mass.
The polar explorer Olaf Jansen and others said that the water in the interior was fresh, which could explain why the ice of the Arctic and Antarctic is made of freshwater, not salt water. It is interesting to note that this view of the make-up of the world is shared and supported by the polar explorers Cook, Peary, Amundsen, Nansen, and Kane and, last but not least, Admiral E. Byrd. All had the same, strange experiences contradicting existing scientific theory.
All confirmed that after 76 degreed latitude the winds became warmer, that birds flew north, that they found colored and gray snow which when thawed left colored pollen or volcanic ash. The question arises: where do flower pollen or volcanic ash near the North Pole come from, as not a single volcano is marked on any of the accessible maps? Further, some of the explorers found themselves in freshwater seas, and all say that at a time during their travels they had seen two suns. Mammoths were found whose flesh was still fresh and whose stomach contained fresh grass.
If you are further interested in the hollow Earth and the experience of the different explorers, some titles are listed under Further Reading at the back of this book. The Hollow Earth theory has so far remained just a theory to the public, although some authors and explorers claim to have visited there and even like Admiral E. Byrd tad taken numerous pictures. It cannot be denied that all the Arctic explorers had had extraordinary experiences that so far cannot be explained, which points to something strange happening there.
But the theory that the Earth had a molten core has equally remained just a theory. The fact remains though that the subterranean man-made tunnel and cave systems do exist. They can be found in almost any country of the world and by the largely still existing light source (a greenish glow that gets brighter the deeper one enters the tunnels), by the smooth walls and the unknown machinery that was found in the Boynton Canyon in Sedona, Arizona, are witness to a technically advanced culture that existed millions of years before. Relevant literature is listed at the back.
The myths of a Hollow Earth were enough for the Thule people to go out to start a serious study of the phenomenon. Therefore there was at least one expedition to the Antarctic during World War II. (Details follow).
To show that the story of the Aryan-Hyperboreans was not entirely invented I would like to mention two examples: When the Spaniards under Pizarro came to South America in 1532, the natives called them ivicarochas (white lords). According to their legends there was a master race of very tall white people who centuries before had descended in flying disks from heaven. They ha long ruled in some of the towns and when they disappeared had promised to return.
When the fair skinned Spaniards arrived, the natives thought them to be the iviracochas coming back and therefore in the beginning willingly gave them their gold. Similar occurrences took place when the first white travelers arrived in Tibet and other Himalayan regions. They were scrutinized in astonishment by the Tibetans and asked why they came from BELOW (the foot of the mountains) rather than from ABOVE as they usually did.
It is a pity that most Germans have never heard about these things, since the ideology of Nazi Germany was based on the El Shaddai theme and the resulting persecution of Jews, the Revelation of Isais, the knowledge of the Templars and possibly on the tales just told. All their actions including the Second World War were based thereupon. There are two possibilities to deal with this:
You think all the leaders of the Third Reich were mentally disturbed and drug addicts and you simply ignore all of this or You try to find out whether perhaps something of all this is true after all.
But to find literature about this subject you should not look in so-called free Germany, for the Allies had cleaned up very thoroughly after the war.
The activities of right wing radicals in Germany would justify the prohibition of some of the literature that openly and often crudely calls for aggressive racism. But to truthfully render the political and religious events of the past and the present, this information should not be suppressed.
Now enough of these mysteries. As I will show you, the leadership of Germany became very active because of these myths. In October 1918 Sebottendorf gave the lodge brethren KARL HARRER and ANTO DREXLER the task of forming a workers circle which later became the DAP (German Workers Party). The Thule-Gesellschaft had a newspaper, the Volkischer Beobachter which was soon taken over by the NSDAP (National Socialist German Workers Party) into which the DAP soon developed.
In the same month the young occultist and esoteriscist ADOLF HITLER (actually Adolf Schicklgruber, Hitler was his mothers maiden name) entered the Thule-DAP and as a good speaker attracted attention. In his book The Spear of Destiny, Trevor Ravenscroft describes what Hitlers childhood friend WALTER JOHANNES STEIN, a later advisor of the Freemason WINSTON CHURCHILL, also said:
Hitler, who already at twenty was a close adherent of mysticism, tried to reach higher states of consciousness with the help of drugs. The Viennese bookseller PRETSCHE, who was a follower of the Germany mysticism and the resulting theory of an Aryan master race, helped Hitler to set the foundation of his future view of the world and also introduced him to the hallucinogenic PEYOTL as a means to get mystic illumination. At this time Hitler also got acquainted with the PROTOCOLS OF THE ELDERS OF ZION which only strengthened his objection of the Jews.
As Hitler was a drug addict already as a young man, it is no wonder he used through his whole life strong narcotics. According to the diaries of his personal physician DR. THEODOR MORELL, Hitler had different painkillers, tranquilizers, strychnine, cocaine, morphine derivatives and other drugs injected during all the six years of the Second World War. The Thule-Gesellschaft engaged Hitler as a speaker at election rallies.
Later the anti-Bolshevik and Thule-brother DIETRICH ECKART taught him how to write and speak properly. Eckart made Hitler what he later represented. He introduced him into the Munich and Berlin scenes and Hitler adopted the Thule views almost completely.
In 1924, when Hitler was imprisoned because of the failed Munich putsch, Haushofer spent several hours with him every day and passed his theories and plans on. Among the books he supplied to Hitler was Bulwer-Lyttons THE COMING RACE which tale about a highly developed subterranean Aryan race is almost identical to the one mentioned above.
In Bulwer-Lyttons book saucer-shaped flying ships play also an important role. A further book came to be published: Ferdinand Ossendowskis BEASTS, MEN AND GODS which told of the legends of Agartha and Shamballah. Hitler was completely taken in by the search for the subterranean realm and the Thule-Aryan race theory.
HAUSHOFER and RUDOLF HESS took on the political education of Hitler. In Landsberg Hitler used the theories of Haushofer, the thoughts of Rosenberg and political propaganda and mixed it all together. Rudolf Hess supplied the proper language and wrote it on the typewriter. In this way Hitlers book MEIN KAMPF (My Fight) was written. The role of mysticism and occultism in the Third Reich is shown by the influence of KARL HAUSHOFER who was called The Greatest Magician of the German Reich. He was said to have a prophetic gift the accuracy of which helped him to quickly raise in the occult power circles of pre-war Germany.
Jack Fisherman wrote in his The Seven Men of Spandau that RUDOLF HESS was also completely taken in by Haushofers thoughts and theories. The strange flight by Hess to England shows this. It was caused by a dream Haushofer had where he say Rudolf Hess walking through the corridors of English castles and brought peace between the two greatest Nordic nations. Since Hess was convinced of the accuracy of Haushofers prophecies he followed that dream without questions.
How mush of the magic equipment of the Thule-Gesellschaft was used is shown in the following text:
Hitler took the Thule salute Heil und Sieg (Salvation and Victory) and made it into Sieg Heil. This salute together with the raising of the arm is a magic ritual which is used to form voltes. Franz Bardon wrote more about magic voltes and their use. Franz Bardon (aka Frabato, 1909-1958) was the German magician I knew most about. He had been offered high posts in government by Hitler if he would help him win the war by his magic faculties. Bardon should also give Hitler the addresses of the other 98 99 Lodges Hitler was a member of the Dresden lodge that exist all over the world. When Bardon denied his help he was subjected to terrible torture. (Franz Bardon: Frabato).
Hitler took the Thule salute Heil und Sieg (Salvation and Victory) and made it into Sieg Heil. This salute together with the raising of the arm is a magic ritual which is used to form voltes. Franz Bardon wrote more about magic voltes and their use. Franz Bardon (aka Frabato, 1909-1958) was the German magician I knew most about. He had been offered high posts in government by Hitler if he would help him win the war by his magic faculties. Bardon should also give Hitler the addresses of the other 98 99 Lodges Hitler was a member of the Dresden lodge that exist all over the world. When Bardon denied his help he was subjected to terrible torture.
(Franz Bardon: Frabato).
Magic rites were not only used in Germany, though. The Victory sign of the English, the V-shaped fingers, was until 1940 only known to the highest of the high in high degree masonry. When the high degree Freemason WINSTON CHURCHILL feared that England might fall victim to Hitlers successful hand magic (the German salute), his mentor in magic, the Satanist ALEISTER CROWLEY advised him to counter it with the two spread fingers.
The SS, also called the Black Order, was everything but a police troop. It was a proper religious order of a hierarchical makeup. The brutal Nazi party as a holy order? In hindsight this seems ridiculous, until one notices that it wouldnt be the first time in history that a holy order was responsible for the most monstrous atrocities. The Jesuits, but also the Dominicans who ruled the Catholic Inquisition in the Middle Ages, are prime examples.
The BLACK ORDER was the practical realization of the esoteric and occult belief system of the Thule-Gesellschaft and the later SS Schwarze Sonne (Black Sun) not only worked closely together with the Tibetan colony in Berlin but also with a Tibetan order of black magic. Hitler was in constant contact with a Guardian of the Key. He is said to have known the entrance to Agartha (Aryana).
On April 25, 1945, when the Russians found in a Berlin cellar the bodies of six Tibetans lying in a circle, the one lying in the center wore green gloves. It seemed they had committed group suicide. On May 2, 1945, after the Russians had entered Berlin more than 1,000 bodies were found who definitely came from the Himalayan region and had fought along with the Germans. What in the world had Tibetans to do here, thousands of kilometers from their country and in German uniforms? Countless numbers of young men had been trained by the Black Sun during the Third Reich, initiated in the Wewelsburg and sent to Tibet to survive there and to prepare for the great final battle at the end of this century.
According to Franz Bardon, Adolf Hitler was also a member of a F.O.G.C. Lodge (Freimaurerischer Orden der Goldenen Centurie, Dresden, Germany = Masonic Order of the Golden Century) which is actually know as the 99 Lodges. There are 99 of these 99 Lodges in many places of the world, all with 99 members.
Each lodge is presided by a demon, and each member has his personal demon. The deal is that the demon helps his person gain money and power, but his soul is after death committed to serve the demon. In addition one member is sacrificed every year to the lodge demon. It will be replaced by a new member. The members of the 99 Lodges are also industrialists and bankers of the highest caliber and today are more important than ever. The F.O.G.C. or 99 Lodges are in my opinion the most dangerous, compared to which the Church of Satan of Anton LaVey that the media write about is harmless.
Franz Bardon confirmed that Hitler and the Thule order were the outer tool of a group of Tibetan magicians.
Only [one] who knows about those circumstances will understand this sentence from a speech by Hitler held on January 30, 1945:
In this battle again inner Asia will not win, but Europe led by that nation that for one and a half thousand years has represented Europe as vanguard towards the East and will continue to do so in all eternity: Our great German Reich, the German nation! (Max Domarus: Hitler Speeches and Declarations 1932-1945).
In this battle again inner Asia will not win, but Europe led by that nation that for one and a half thousand years has represented Europe as vanguard towards the East and will continue to do so in all eternity: Our great German Reich, the German nation!
(Max Domarus: Hitler Speeches and Declarations 1932-1945).
There are also many myths about the whereabouts of Adolf Hitler after the War. According to Franz Bardon and Miguel Serranos (former Chilean ambassador to Germany) Hitler escaped with the help of the 99 Lodge. This is perhaps easier to understand if one knows that Hitler used up to five doubles during his tenure. A large German newspaper wrote on March 5, 1979 that Hitlers private plane had been found in the jungle in South America.
Joseph Grenier (The End of the Hitler Myth) also states that Hitler had taken off in his plane from Berlin-Tempelhof on April 30, 1945. Later, around the time of the Nuremberg trials, it is said that Stalin asked U.S. officials whether they knew where Hitler was? If Hitler had died in Berlin in 1945, why would Stalin ask?
If Hitler did survive, however, it is most probable that he had availed himself of the developments by the VRIL-GESELLSCHAFT which I will describe in the following chapter - for leaving Germany. Whether Hitler died then or not in the meantime he died anyway!
On March 14, 1946, Karl Haushofer had, since his mission had failed, first killed his wife and then committed seppudu (hara-kiri) as the Yellow Hats had made him swear. The theoretical and practical buildup of the Third Reich on the German side had been wholly initiated and steered by the Thule-Gesellschaft. The financing came from the international bankers. The womb from whence it all came is still fertile, since the Thule-Gesellschaft or its offspring are still with us today.
Another secret group that spoke of the coming of an Aryan Savior and to which Hermann Goering, the Nazis finance chief, belonged was the EDELWEISS-GESELLSCHAFT. But here it does not concern us.
Back to Contents
Back to The Thule Society
CHAPTER 33 THE VRIL-GESELLSCHAFT OR NOT ALL GOOD COMES FROM ABOVE
The VRIL-GESELLSCHAFT (VRIL Society) does not exactly fit or subject which has a more political slant, but it is indeed one of the most interesting secret societies that ever existed. Therefore is just has to be mentioned here. In Germany there is not a single book, or indeed any material, to be found that would show up an organization of this name; the Allies successfully removed it all. But as you will see, not all the material has actually disappeared.
And I am very pleased that I can uncover this subject here, because you will see which non-German power circles have an interest to keep these events from the German people. In 1919, Karl Haushofer founded a second order, the BRUDER DES LICHTS (Brothers of the Light) that later was renamed VRIL-GESELLSCHAFT.
In this united the new Templar order DIE HERREN VOM SCHWARZEN STEIN (DHvSS, the Lords of the Black Stone) that emerged in 1917 from the Teutonic Order, and the SCHWARZE RITTER (Black Knights) of the Thule and SS elite SCHWARZEN SONNE (Black Sun).
To compare the THULE and the VRIL-GESELLSCHAFTEN, it is easiest said the Thule-Gesellschaft dealt with material and political interests, while the Vril-Gesellschaft was more oriented towards the OTHER SIDE. But many concepts they shared, like Atlantis, Thule, the basic connection between the Teutons and Mesopotamia, but also the old sacred places like the Externsteine (external stones) or the Hausberg at Stronegg were areas of common research.
In December 1919 a small circle of persons from the Thule, the Vril and the DHvSS met in a specially rented foresters lodge near Perchtesgaden (Germany). They were accompanied by the medium Maria Orsic and another medium only known as Sigrun. Maria had mediumistically received transmission in a secret Templar script a language unknown to her with the technical data for the construction of a flying machine. According to Vril documents these telepathic messages came from the solar system Aldebaran which is sixty-eight light-years away in the constellation Taurus.
I would like to present here a short summary of the messages the Vril medium had received over the years and which formed the basis for all further actions by the Vril-Gesellschaft:
The solar system Aldebaran has a sun around which revolve two inhabited planets that form the empire SUMERAN. The population of the Aldebaran system is divided into the master race of light God people (Aryans) and several other human races that had developed by negative mutation from the God people because of climatic changes upon the planets. The colored mutant races apparently are on a lower stage of spiritual development. The more the races intermixed, the lower the spiritual development of these people sank, which led to the situation that when the sun Aldebaran began expanding they could no longer maintain the space travel technology of their forefathers and could not leave the planets by their own means. The lower races, totally dependant upon the master race, had to be evacuated and were brought to other inhabitable planets. Despite their difference all the races respected one another and did not interfere with each other, neither the so-called God people nor the lower races. Each respected that the others just made their own developments (in contrast to what happens on Earth). Around 500 million years ago the light God people started to colonize other earth-like planets, after the expansion of the sun Aldebaran and the resulting heat had made the original planets uninhabitable. It is said that in our system they first colonized the planet Mallona (also called Maldek, Marduk or by the Russians Phaeton) which existed in the area of todays asteroid belt, then between Mars and Jupiter. Mars was next. The proof for a highly developed race on Mars is run by the well-known face on Mars and the pyramid city which has been photographed by the Mars probe Viking in 1976. It is assumed that the master race of Sumeran-Aldebaran then also came to Earth for a first visit, witnessed by the petrified impressions of a shoe found to be about 500 million years old, and squashed under the heel a trilobite, a little crayfish that lived then upon Earth and became extinct about 400 million years ago. The Vril people thought that later, when Earth became slowly habitable, the race of the Aldebarans landed in Mesopotamia and formed the master caste of the SUMERIANS which were described as fair, white God people. The Vril telepaths also found that the Sumerian language was not only identical with that of the German and that the language frequently of German and Sumerian-Aldebaranian were almost identical.
The solar system Aldebaran has a sun around which revolve two inhabited planets that form the empire SUMERAN. The population of the Aldebaran system is divided into the master race of light God people (Aryans) and several other human races that had developed by negative mutation from the God people because of climatic changes upon the planets.
The colored mutant races apparently are on a lower stage of spiritual development. The more the races intermixed, the lower the spiritual development of these people sank, which led to the situation that when the sun Aldebaran began expanding they could no longer maintain the space travel technology of their forefathers and could not leave the planets by their own means. The lower races, totally dependant upon the master race, had to be evacuated and were brought to other inhabitable planets. Despite their difference all the races respected one another and did not interfere with each other, neither the so-called God people nor the lower races. Each respected that the others just made their own developments (in contrast to what happens on Earth).
Around 500 million years ago the light God people started to colonize other earth-like planets, after the expansion of the sun Aldebaran and the resulting heat had made the original planets uninhabitable. It is said that in our system they first colonized the planet Mallona (also called Maldek, Marduk or by the Russians Phaeton) which existed in the area of todays asteroid belt, then between Mars and Jupiter. Mars was next. The proof for a highly developed race on Mars is run by the well-known face on Mars and the pyramid city which has been photographed by the Mars probe Viking in 1976. It is assumed that the master race of Sumeran-Aldebaran then also came to Earth for a first visit, witnessed by the petrified impressions of a shoe found to be about 500 million years old, and squashed under the heel a trilobite, a little crayfish that lived then upon Earth and became extinct about 400 million years ago.
The Vril people thought that later, when Earth became slowly habitable, the race of the Aldebarans landed in Mesopotamia and formed the master caste of the SUMERIANS which were described as fair, white God people. The Vril telepaths also found that the Sumerian language was not only identical with that of the German and that the language frequently of German and Sumerian-Aldebaranian were almost identical.
We cannot know whether these statements about Aldebaran were based on facts, but the construction plans and the technical details that the Vril telepaths received wherever they came from were so accurate that they led to the most fantastic idea men ever begot: the construction of a Jenseitsflugmachine, a flying machine for the other side!
The concept of an alternative science emerged (today one would say alternative energy forms). But they only started on the project three years later. During this early phase of alternative science or alternative technology
Dr. W.O. Schumann of the Technical University in Munich, both a Thule and a Vril member, held a speech, a section of which is reproduced here:
In everything we recognize two principles that determine the events: light and darkness, good and evil, creation and destruction as in electricity we know plus and minus. It is always: either or. These two principles the creative and the destructive also determine our technical means Everything destructive is of Satanic origin, everything creative is divine. Every technology based upon explosion or combustion has thus to be called Satanic. The coming new age will be an age of new, positive, divine technology! (from the German SS secret archives).
In everything we recognize two principles that determine the events: light and darkness, good and evil, creation and destruction as in electricity we know plus and minus. It is always: either or.
These two principles the creative and the destructive also determine our technical means
Everything destructive is of Satanic origin, everything creative is divine. Every technology based upon explosion or combustion has thus to be called Satanic. The coming new age will be an age of new, positive, divine technology!
(from the German SS secret archives).
At the same time the scientist VIKTOR SCHAUBERGER worked on a similar project. Johannes Kepler, whose ideas Schauberger followed, had knowledge of the secret teachings of Pythagoras that had been adopted and kept secret by the KNIGHTS TEMPLAR. It was the knowledge of IMPLOSION (in this case the utilization of the potential of the inner worlds in the outer world). Hitler knew as did the Thule and Vril people that the divine principle was always constructive.
A technology however that is based on explosion and therefore is destructive runs against the divine principle. Thus they wanted to create a technology based on IMPLOSION. Schaubergers theory of oscillation (principled of the overtone sequence, monochord) takes up the knowledge of Implosion. To put it simply: IMPLOSION instead of EXPLOSION! Following the energy paths of the monochord and the implosion technology one reaches the realm of antimatter and thus the cancellation of gravity.
In the summer of 1922 the first saucer-shaped flying machine was built whose drive was based on implosion (the other-side flying machine). It had a disk eight meters across with a second disk with a diameter of six and a half meters above and a third disk of seven meters diameter below. These three disks had a hole at the center of one meter eighty across in which the drive, which was two meters forty high, was mounted. At the bottom, the central body was cone-shaped, and there a pendulum reaching the cellar was hung that served for stabilization. In the activated state the top and bottom disk revolved in opposing directions to build up an electromagnetic rotating field.
The performance of this first flying disk is not known. But experiments were carried out with it for two years before it was dismantled and probably stored in the Augsburg works of Messerschmidt. In the books of several German industrial companies entries under the codename JFM (for Jenseitsflugmachine) can be found that show payments towards financing this work. Certainly the VRIL DRIVE (formally called Schumann SM-Levitator) emerged from this machine.
In principle, the other-side flying machine should create an extremely strong field around itself extending somewhat into its surroundings which would render the space thus enclosed including the machine a microcosm absolutely independent of the earthbound space. At maximum strength this field would be independent of all surrounding universal forces like gravitation, electromagnetism, radiation and matter of any kind and could therefore maneuver within the gravitational or any other field at will, without the acceleration forces being effective or perceptible.
In June 1934, VIKTOR SCHAUBERGER was invited by HITLER and the highest representatives of the Thule and Vril Societies and from then on worked with them. After the initial failure, the first so-called German UFO also came out in June 1934. Under the leadership of Dr. W.O. Schumann, the first experimental round flying machine, the RFZ 1 (Rundflugzeug I) was developed on the grounds of the aircraft factory Arado in Brandenburg. In its first and only flight it rose vertically to around 60 meters, then wobbled and danced in the air for minutes. The Arado 196 guiding system was utterly useless. The pilot Lothar Waiz just managed somehow to bring it down to the ground, jump out and run away before it ripped to pieces. That was the end of the RFZ 1, but the beginning of the VRIL flying machines.
Before the end of 1934, the RFZ 2 was ready, with a Vril drive and a magnetic field impulse steering unit. It had a diameter of five meters and the following flying characteristics: With rising speed the visible counters became blurred and the craft showed the colors typical of UFOs: depending on the drive setting red, orange, yellow, green, white, blue or purple. It worked and it would meet a remarkable destiny in 1941, during the Battle of Britain, when it was used as transatlantic reconnaissance craft, because for these flights the German standard fighters ME 109 had an insufficient range.
By the end of 1941 it was photographed over the southern Atlantic on its way to the German cruiser Atlantis in Antarctic waters. It could not be used as a fighter though. The impulse steering allowed it only changes of direction at 90 degrees, 45 degrees or 22.6 degrees, but that is exactly the right-angled flying pattern associated with and typical for UFOs today! After the success of the small RFZ 2 as a distant reconnoiter craft the Vril-Gesselschaft got its own test area in Brandenburg.
By the end of 1942 the lightly armed VRIL-1-Jager (VRIL1-fighter) was airborne. It measured 11.5 meters across, carried one person, had a Schumann-Levitator drive and a magnetic field impulse steering unit. It reached speeds of 2,900 to 12,000 km/h. could change direction at a right angle at full speed without affecting the pilot, could fly in any weather and had a 100% space capability. Seventeen VRIL-1s were built and some versions had two seats and glass domes.
Also during this time another project was worked on, the V-7. Several disks were built under this code, but with conventional jet engines. ANDREAS EPP had designed a combination of levitating disk and jet propulsion, the RFZ-7. The design groups SCHRIEVERHABERMOHL and MIETHE-BELLUSO worked on it. The RFZ-7 had a diameter of forty-two meters, it crashed on landing at Spitzbergen, A second craft was later photographed outside Prague. According to Andreas Epp this craft was to be armed with nuclear head to attack New York.
In July 1941 SCHRIEVER and HABERMOHL built a vertical take-off round craft with jet propulsion, but it had severe shortcomings. They went on to develop an electrogravitational flying gyro with a tachyon drive which proved more successful. Then, Schriever-Habermohl and Belluzo built the RFZ-7 T that was fully functional. The V-7 flying disks however were mere toys compared to the Vril and Haunebru disks.
Within the SS there was a group studying alternative energy, the SS-E-IV (Development Group IV of the Black Sun) whose main task was to render Germany independent of foreign oil. The SS-E-IV developed from the existing Vril drives and the tachyon convertor of Captain Hans Coler the THULE DRIVE which later was called the THULE TACHYONATOR.
In August 1939 the first RFZ 5 took off. It was an armed flying gyro with the odd name HAUNEBRU I. It was twenty-five meters across and carried a crew of eight. At first it reached a speed of 4.800 km/h, later up to 17,000 km/h. It was equipped with two 6 cm KSK (Kraftstrahlkanhonen, power ray guns) in revolving towers and four machine guns 106. It had 60% space capability.
By the end of 1942 the HAUNEBRU II was ready. The diameters varied from twenty-six to thirty-two meters and their height from nine to eleven meters. They carried between nine and twenty people, had a Thule Tachyonator drive and near the ground reached a speed of 6,000 km/h. It could fly in space and had a range of fifty-five flying hours. At this time there existed already plans for a large-capacity craft, the VRIL-7 with a diameter of 120m.
A short while later the HAUNEBRU III, the show-piece of all disks, was ready, with seventy-one meters across. It was filmed flying. It could transport thirty-two men, could remain airborne for eight weeks and reached at least 7,000 km/h (according to documents in the secret SS archives up to 40,000 km/h).
Virgil Armstrong, former CIA member and Green Beret, writes about German flying machines during World War II that could take off vertically and fly at right angles. They were measured at 3,000 km/h and had a laser weapon (probably the so-called KSK power ray gun) that could pierce four-inch armor.
Professor J. Hurtak, UFO-logist and author of The Keys of Enoch writes that the German were in the process of building what the Allies called the wonder weapon system. Hurtak got protocols that described two events; the erection of a space city at Peenemunde and the enlistment and transport to the U.S. of the best technicians and scientists from Germany. He also mentions the meticulous examination of the so-called FOO FIGHTERS.
The CIA and the British secret service knew already in 1942 about the construction and the use of these flying objects, but they were off in their evaluation. Foo Fighters actually was the Allies name for all glowing German flying machines. Probably there were two inventions that actually corresponded to the term Foo Fighters: the Flying Turtle and the Soap Bubble. Two completely different objects that the Allies held for one.
The FLYING TURTLE was developed by the SS-E-IV at Vienna-Neustadt. Its outer shape recalled the shell of a turtle. They were unmanned probes that could cause disruption in the electric ignition systems of the enemy. They carried advanced Klystronohren (clystron tubes) that the SS called death rays. The ignition disrupter did not work perfectly at the outset; later follow-up versions did, however, and the UFO-logist will confirm that disruption of ignition, the cutting of electrical power to equipment, is a typical sign when a UFO is near.
Wendelle C. Stevens, U.S. Air Force pilot during the Second World War describes the Foo Fighters as sometimes gray-green, then red-orange, they approached his aircraft to about five meters and then stayed there. They could not be shaken off nor shot down and often they caused squadrons to turn back to land.
The SOAP BUBBLES that were also called Foo Fighters were something completely different, though. They were simple balloons in which there were metal spirals that disturbed enemy radar. The success probably was very limited, disregarding the psychological effect.
At the beginning of 1943 it was planned to build in the Zeppelin works a cigar-shaped mother ship. The ANDROMEDA DEVICE of a length of 139m should transport several saucer-shaped craft in its body for flights of long duration (interstellar flights). By Christmas 1943 an important meeting of the VRIL-GESELLSCHAFT took place in the seaside resort of Kolberg.
The two mediums Maria Ortic and Sigrun attended. The main item on the agenda was the ALDEBARAN PROJECT. The mediums had received precise information about the habitable planets around the sun Aldebaran and one began to plan a trip there. At a January 22,1944 meeting between HITLER, HIMMLER, Kunkel (of the Vril Society) and Dr. Schumann this project was discussed. It was planned to send the VRIL-7 large-capacity craft through a dimension channel independent of the speed of light to Alderbaran.
According to Ratthofer, a first test flight in the dimension channel took place in the winter of 1944. It barely missed disaster, for photographs show the Vril-7 after the flight looking as if it had been flying for a hundred years. The outer skin was looking aged and was damaged in several places.
On February 14, 1944, the supersonic helicopter constructed by Schriever and Habermohl under the V7 project that was equipped with twelve turbo-units BMW 028 was flown by the test pilot Joachim Roehlike at Peenemunde. The vertical rate of ascent was 800 meters per minute, it reached a height of 24,200 meters and in horizontal flight a speed of 2,200 km/h. It could also be driven with unconventional energy. But the helicopter never saw action since Peenemunde was bombed in 1944 and the subsequent move to Prague didnt work out either, because the Americans and the Russians occupied Prague before the flying machines were ready again.
In the secret archives of the SS the British and the Americans discovered during the occupation of Germany at the beginning of 1945 photographs of the Haunebru II and the Vril 1 crafts as well as of the Andromeda device. Due to President Trumans decision in March 1946 the war fleet command of the U.S. gave permission to collect material of the German high technology experiments.
Under the operation PAPERCLIP German scientists who had worked in secret were brought to the U.S. privately, among them VIKTOR SCHAUBERGER and WERNHER VON BRAUN.
A short summary of the developments that were meant to be produced in series:
The first project was led by Prof. Dr. W.O. Schumann of the Technical University of Munich. Under his guidance seventeen disk-shaped flying machines with a diameter of 11.5m were built, the so-called VRIL-1-Jager (Vril-1-fighters), that made 84 test flights. At least one VRIL-7 and VRIL-7 LARGE CAPACITY CRAFT APPARENTLY STARTED FROM Brandenburg after the whole test area had been blown up towards Aldebaran with some of the Vril scientists and lodge members.
The second project was run by the SS-IV development group. Until the beginning of 1945 they had three different sizes of bell-shaped space gyros built:
The Haunebru I, 25m diameter, two machines built that made 52 test flights (speed 4,800 km/h). The Haunebru II, 32m diameter, seven machines built that made 106 test flights (speed 6,000 km/h). The Haunebru II was already planned for series production. Tenders were asked from the Dorneir and Junkers aircraft manufacturers, and at the end of March 1945 the decision was made in favor of Dornier. The official name for the heavy craft was to be DO-STRA (Dornier STRAtospheric craft). The Haunebru III, 71m diameter, only one machine built that made at least 19 test flights (speed 7,000 km/h).
The Haunebru I, 25m diameter, two machines built that made 52 test flights (speed 4,800 km/h).
The Haunebru II, 32m diameter, seven machines built that made 106 test flights (speed 6,000 km/h). The Haunebru II was already planned for series production. Tenders were asked from the Dorneir and Junkers aircraft manufacturers, and at the end of March 1945 the decision was made in favor of Dornier. The official name for the heavy craft was to be DO-STRA (Dornier STRAtospheric craft).
The Haunebru III, 71m diameter, only one machine built that made at least 19 test flights (speed 7,000 km/h).
The ANDROMEDA DEVICE existed on the drawing board; it was 139m long and had hangars for one Haunebru II, two Vril Is and two Vril IIs There are documents showing that the VRIL-7 large capacity craft had started for secret, still earth-bound, missions after it was finished and test flown by the end of 1944. A landing at the Mondsee in the Salzkammergut in Austria, with dives to test the pressure resistance of the hull.
Probably in March and April 1945 the VRIL-7 was stationed in the Alpenfestung (Alpine Fortress) for security and strategic reasons, form whence it flew to Spain to get important personalities who had fled there safely to South America and NEUSCHWABENLAND (explanation follows) to the secret German bases erected there during the war. Immediately after this the VRIL-7 is said to have started on a secret flight to Japan about which however nothing further is known.
What happened to these flying machines after the war?
It cannot be excluded that a small series of the Haunebru II might have been built. The several photographs of UFOs that emerged after 1945 with the typical features of these German constructions suggest as much.
Some say that some of them had been sunk into the Austrian Mondsee, others maintain that they were flown to South America or brought there in parts. It is certain though that if the crafts didnt get to South America, the plans that did allowed for new ones to be built and flown there, for an important part had been used in 1983 in the Phoenix Project, the follow-on project of the 1943 Philadelphia Experiment. This was a teleportation, materialization and time travel experiment of the U.S. Navy that was more successful than you could imagine in your wildest dreams. There is enough material for another book, but it does not fit too well into our subject here.
In 1938 a German expedition to the ANTARCTIC was made with the aircraft carrier Schwabenland (Swabia). 600,000 km2 of an ice-free area with lakes and mountains were declared German territory, the NEUSCHWABENLAND (New Swabia). Whole fleets of submarines of the 21 and 23 series were later headed towards Neuschwabenland.
Today about one hundred German submarines are still unaccounted for some equipped with the Walter snorkel, a device that allowed them to stay submerged for several weeks, and it can be assumed that they fled to Neuschwabenland with the dismantled flying disks or at least the construction plans. Again it must be assumed that since the test flights had been very successful some so-called flying saucers have flown directly there at the end of the war. Perhaps some may think these assumptions to be a bit on the daring side, but there are strong indications that is may well have happened that way.
There is a question why in 1947 ADMIRAL E. BYRD led an invasion of the ANTARCTIC, why he had 4,000 soldiers, a man-of-war, a fully equipped aircraft carrier and a functioning supply system at his command if it was a mere expedition? He had been given eight months for the exercise, but they had to stop after eight weeks and high losses of planes undisclosed even today. What had happened?
Later Admiral Byrd spoke to the press:
It is the bitter reality that in the case of a new war one had to expect attacks by planes that could fly from Pole to Pole.
Further he added that there was an advanced civilization down there that used their excellent technologies together with the SS.
Norbert-Jurgen Ratthofer writes about the whereabouts of the Haunebru developments in his book Zeitmaschinen (Time Machines):
The Haunebru I, II and III space gyros and the VRIL I space flying disk had disappeared after May 1945. It is very interesting to note in the context that after its nineteenth test flight the German Haunebru III is said to have taken off on April 21, 1945, from Neuschwabenland, a vast, officially German territory in the Eastern Antarctic, for an expedition to Mars, about which there is nothing further known. One year later, in 1946 the many sightings that suddenly occurred in Scandinavia of shining objects of unknown and definitely artificial origin caused a great stir among the Allies in East and West. Again one year later, in 1947, and well into the Fifties, a rising number of shining unknown flying objects, doubtlessly steered by intelligent beings mostly round, disk- or bell-shaped, sometimes cigar-shaped, so-called UFOs appeared over North America..
The text goes on to say that as a rule these objects were unlike the German developments. I beg to differ. Good photographic material proves that the Haunebru II version especially had been sighted very often since 1945.
If you have wrestled with what is available in the UFO world for ten years as I have, that is a significantly high percentage of the cases where personal contacts with the people from the so-called UFOs were made, these were with especially beautiful Aryan types, blond and blue-eyed and that they either spoke fluent German or another language with a German accent (for insiders I would refer to the Adamski case of 1952, the Cedric Allingham case of 1954 and the Howard Menger case of 1956).
It is further said that color photographs taken by a night guard in West Germany in the Seventies exist of a landed and restarted flying disk that had both a knights cross and a swastika on its hull.
The flying machines just mentioned are well documented on photographs and films. There is the 60-Minutes documentary UFO Secrets of the Third Reich. The American Vladimir Terziski gave a three-hour speech at the September 1991 UFO conference in Phoenix, Arizona, where he showed slides of German saucers, construction plans and subterranean German bases.
Also of interest are the book by the Italian Air Force commander Renato Vesco and the book by Rudolf Lusar Die Deutschen Waffen and Geheimwaffen des Zweiten Weltkrieges und ihre Weiterentwicklung (The German Arms and Secret Weapons of the Second World War and Their Development), J.F. Lehmanns Verlag, Munich 1971.
Do you see now why the subject of UFOs is treated as nonsense by the media, especially in Germany? Upon this German background it becomes evident that the news and media world controlled by the Illuminati through the Anglo-American Zionist lobby shirks no costs to keep the German citizens from research in this area.
The Question arises from where the Thule and Vril secret societies got their knowledge about the construction of these flying machines? Also their knowledge of gene technology in which area the Germans were also way ahead of other countries? According to Herbert G. Dorsey and other researchers they had, beside the construction plans the Vril-Gesellschaft had received through telepathic contact with extra-terrestrials, a non-terrestrial saucer that had crashed in the Black Forest in 1936 and whose undamaged drive had proved a great help to the Germans. But there is practically no proof of that, and no living eye witnesses are known.
But these exist in America, and in large numbers. For around the same time the Americans recorded quite a number of crashes that could not be kept entirely secret. More of that later. Back to the political arena. Apart from the fact that I.G. Farben supported Hitler, their cartel partner Standard Oil (Rockefeller) fanned the flames against the Nazis. The Ford Motor Company for instance helped to build up the American army while at the same time producing in Germany military vehicles for the Nazis. Ford and Opel (subsidiary of General Motors that is controlled by J.P. Morgan) were the two largest producers of tanks in Hitlers Germany.
Whatever the outcome of the war, these multinational companies had already made their cuts. Many enterprises followed this principle during the Second World War.
Why is there nothing about all this in schoolbooks or encyclopaedias?
Especially in Germany where the freedom of the press is apparently honored and the truth is taught?
One of the reasons is that the Rockefeller Foundation spent US$ 139,000 in 1946 to present an official history of the Second World War which covered up the whole story of the U.S. bankers building up the Nazi regime as well as the occult and mystical background of the Nazis. One of the main sponsors was Rockefellers own Standard Oil Corp.
Back to The Vril Society
Back to German Disc Aircrafts
