# Seven Ways our Children are Being Brainwashed

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_mindcon78.htm

by Gregg Prescott, M.S. January 11, 2015 from In5D Website
From birth, virtually all of us have been brainwashed through various outlets that encourage materialism, ego, subservience, control and conformity.
But where do the origins of mind control begin and what can we do about it?
1. Religion As children, the brainwashing begins in the church when we are baptized.
Many parents do not question baptism or the origins of it and blindly have their children baptized as the church welcomes them into the community in the name of Jesus Christ. The Jesus story, alone, isn't questioned by enough Christians who blindly believe anything they are told in the name of "faith".
I'd like to believe there is a Santa Claus and an Easter Bunny, too. These holidays both have Pagan origins, yet Christians never question these either.
It's all part of the lie propagated to us by religion.
Many Christians will argue that their church does good things for others while the bible provides good morals and values. A counter-argument is that you don't need a church to do good things for others or a bible to be a morally sound person. Additionally, the bible also teaches hatred and fear such as when God allegedly kills everyone with the "Great Flood", except Noah and his family. These are the horror stories our children learn in Sunday school. Not only that, but the messages are often convoluted and ambiguous. What kind of message are we sending our children? While the bible provides nice parables to learn from, they are not necessary, especially with all of the other negative content provided by religion. And we haven't even touched all of the unnecessary deaths through inquisitions and crusades which continue today. Killing innocent people seems to have a common theme in religion and is carried on to our children as they become toddlers. With the idea planted that it is alright to kill in the name of God, our children begin to emulate these preconceived ideas through the games they play.
2. Ridiculous role models Boys play with cork guns and cap guns and begin to play "Cowboys and Indians" at a young age. Think about how appalling this is, not only to indigenous people but also teaching a child to kill as a "game".
They also are bought G.I. Joe action figures and pretend to kill opposing troops.
Plastic figurines of soldiers in combat are sold to children, some of which prominently display ethnicity, which plays into the divide and conquer mentality that is seeded at this age. Most girls have played with a Barbie doll at some point in their life. The Barbie doll sets the stage for materialistic attitudes as well as buying into the Cosmo girl image.
It also dictates the role and expectations of what a woman should look like while dividing our children in stereotyped roles for the rest of their lives.
3. Money, ego and materialism We often ask our children,
"What do you want to be when you grow up?"
Rarely does a child say,
"A healer" or "A yoga instructor".
Often, a parent will help to persuade a child into a lucrative job role such becoming a doctor or lawyer. The need for money is further enhanced through board games such as Monopoly and Life, where our children learn greed through bankrupting their friends.
While there are some positive attributes of these games, the bottom line is how they support a positive view of the banksters who have corrupted this planet while emphasizing materialism and greed. The latest bankster game involves cashless Monopoly:
video
What are kids really learning in the game of Life?
4. Divide and conquer techniques
Our children are taught how to play sports and the importance of winning.
While sports provide exercise and promote physical dexterity and good health, they also play into the "divide and conquer" mentality that our children will carry with them for the rest of their lives. How many asinine arguments have you seen between two grown men arguing whose team or player is better than the other?
First of all, it's not "their" team unless they have physical ownership of it Secondly, the two players they're arguing about probably could care less about their argument Lastly, these two people are too blind to see how they're still buying into the divide and conquer mentality that was engrained within them since they began playing "Cowboys and Indians" at a young age
First of all, it's not "their" team unless they have physical ownership of it
Secondly, the two players they're arguing about probably could care less about their argument
Lastly, these two people are too blind to see how they're still buying into the divide and conquer mentality that was engrained within them since they began playing "Cowboys and Indians" at a young age
The game is blatantly being played before our own eyes, yet many of us fail to see it. For example, if the Dallas Cowboys were to play the Kansas City Chiefs (or Washington Redskins), then you have your classic "Cowboys vs. Indians" matchup.
It's all about "My tribe" is better than "Your Tribe" which keeps us separated as people.
5. Television Many of us grew up watching television which can be a humorous outlet or an opportunity to actually learn something, but for the most part, it gets us accustomed and hypnotized into subservience once our brains enter the alpha state of conditioning.
How many times have you sat through a commercial, knowing fully how much you despise the commercial without changing the channel?
Albert Bandura has a theory of modeling where the child will emulate the parent's behavior.
This is why,
"the apple doesn't fall far from the tree".
In the absence of the parent(s), the child will be influenced by what he or she sees on television, further influencing their materialistic and ego-ladened views of society, while accepting television as a normal part of their daily routine.
The entire main stream media (radio, television, magazines, book publishers, etc ) are owned by 6 corporations who greatly influence our children through programming.
Even the word "programming" should be questioned, because this is exactly what brainwashing does it programs our minds and especially, the minds of children who are easily influenced.
6. Education Our educational systems encourage conformity and competition while suppressing or ignoring any special abilities a child may have, such as the ability to have an out of body experience.
In addition, our children are not learning the true history of our origin while being forced to learn a propaganda filled view of what history looks like through biased eyes. The textbooks our children read are printed by companies who, ultimately, are Zionist owned.
What are the chances that a Zionist view would differ from the view of a Palestinian or someone who opposes Zionism?
7. Health In an article entitled, "The Hidden History of Fluoride" the addition to fluoride in our water supply as well as in chemtrails has helped to dumb down the population in order to make us more subservient and controllable.
Part of the hidden history of fluoride includes the following:
1940 Soviet concentration camps maintained by fluoride administration to inmates to decrease resistance to authority and induce physical deteriorization. 1950 Soviets add fluoride to water in prison system to maintain subservience in the inmate population. 1954 C.E.Perkins, I.G.Farben chemist, admits fluoride is to reduce resistance in people to authority. Robert Carton, PhD formerly President of the union of Government Scientists working at the US Environmental Protection Agency said: "Water fluoridation is the greatest case of scientific fraud of this century, if not of all time."
1940 Soviet concentration camps maintained by fluoride administration to inmates to decrease resistance to authority and induce physical deteriorization.
1950 Soviets add fluoride to water in prison system to maintain subservience in the inmate population.
1954 C.E.Perkins, I.G.Farben chemist, admits fluoride is to reduce resistance in people to authority.
Robert Carton, PhD formerly President of the union of Government Scientists working at the US Environmental Protection Agency said: "Water fluoridation is the greatest case of scientific fraud of this century, if not of all time."
Robert Carton, PhD formerly President of the union of Government Scientists working at the US Environmental Protection Agency said:
"Water fluoridation is the greatest case of scientific fraud of this century, if not of all time."
If fluoride has been proven to create subservience in prison and concentration camps, then what is it doing to our children who refuse to question authority figures or any official government position that is against the best interests of humanity? One must also question the insurmountable number of vaccines our children receive. There is NO amount of mercury that is acceptable in the human body, so one must ask how ANY mercury will affect our newborn children?
With the increasing number of vaccines our children receive, we also see a correlation to the number of deaths due to vaccinations as well as an exponential rise in autism.
What can I do about this?
1. Realize that as long as there is money, we are ALL economic slaves It all happens by the age of 12-14. One thing we don't teach our children is how accumulated wealth is a delusional idea which inconspicuously facilitates status, security and happiness, all of which are inherent without money, yet we have been engrained in this illusion that separates us as a global society while maintaining barbaric divide and conquer principles in a capitalist society masquerading as a democracy. At what point is enough, "enough"? 2. Ask questions a lot of them! Our children should be encouraged to ask questions as often as possible instead of regurgitating the state-sponsored propaganda that our schools teach. For example, because of corporate greed, we are creating an unsustainable society. The use of "fossil fuels" is a ridiculous proposition within itself to assume that all of the world's oil came from decomposed dinosaurs, but it's even more asinine to assume we even need oil for fuel when hydro technologies are available, such as the water powered car invented by Stanley Meyer or Tesla's free energy system. Innovators, such as Meyer, are "rewarded" by threats and execution by those who fear the loss of power. The simplest answer is to open source all inventions, including suppressed technologies. Our children never learn these truths in school because according to our economic slave masters, innovation only comes at the expense of need, not conformity. Our children should be encouraged to be the innovators of the future who work in the best interests of humanity instead of CEO's and business executives who are pillaging our planet at the expense of the 99% who are enslaved beneath them. 3. Think outside the box Our educational system does not encourage creative thinking and the majority of what our children learn is all left-hemisphere thinking, which is mathematical and logic based, instead of right hemisphered, which is artistic and creative. By doing so, our children are essentially being trained to work either inside a cubicle or at a fast food restaurant because they never learned the tools of creativity and how to follow their life purpose versus being forced into the corporate world of economic subservience until they are 65 years old. video 4. STOP WATCHING (STATE SPONSORED PROPAGANDA) TELEVISION!!! Watching TV is arguably the #1 brainwashing tool of the corporate elite as the television will tell you what to wear and how to think while taking away your own ability to think critically for yourself. The news programs are designed to keep us living in perpetual fear because when we live in fear, we move further away from our true spiritual essence. The use of fear also makes us more controllable as a population where we eventually give up our civil rights in exchange for perceived security. The commercials are just as bad as any "programming". Most TV commercials show extroverts who are specifically dressed in a certain way with clothing that appeals to your senses in subliminal ways. 5. Try to eliminate as much fluoride from your daily routine Not only does fluoride help to contribute to a more subservient population, it also calcifies your pineal gland, otherwise known as the "3rd eye". Your pineal gland is a gateway to other dimensions, so if it is calcified, then you will be limiting your utmost ability for creative thought and expression as well as dimming your spiritual connection to Creator and your higher self. The further you move away from spirituality, the easier it is for you to be controlled. 6. Research the detriments of vaccinations Please keep in mind that there is NO amount of mercury (in vaccines or elsewhere) that is good for anyone, especially children! 7. Do NOT ingest any genetically modified foods (or processed foods) There have been NO longitudinal studies on the effect of GMO's on our bodies, so we are all literally guinea pigs being tested. One thing you might want to consider is the poison that is built into specific foods, such as GMO corn. When a bug eats GMO corn, it explodes from the inside out because the BT Toxin is not in the husk of the corn, but it the corn, itself. Imagine what this corn is doing to you and your children? Try to buy organic food or grow your own with organic heirloom seeds. When shopping at the grocery store, avoid just about all products in the middle aisles as they are generally all processed foods. 8. Teach your children how to meditate Meditation has the potential to literally transform the world. In 1978, what is known as the "Maharishi Effect" a group of 7000 individuals over the course of 3 weeks were meditating in hopes of positively effecting the surrounding city. They were able to literally transform the collective energy of the city which reduced global crime rates, violence, and casualties during the times of their meditation by an average of 16%. Suicide rates and automobile accidents also were reduced with all variables accounted for. In fact, there was a 72% reduction in terrorist activity during the times at which this group was meditation. When you meditate, you look within for answers instead of relying on other people's opinions, whether religious, political or educational. The truth is ALWAYS within. Anything you have ever been taught has been something that was regurgitated by someone else. Look within and you will find the answers you are looking for.
1. Realize that as long as there is money, we are ALL economic slaves
It all happens by the age of 12-14.
One thing we don't teach our children is how accumulated wealth is a delusional idea which inconspicuously facilitates status, security and happiness, all of which are inherent without money, yet we have been engrained in this illusion that separates us as a global society while maintaining barbaric divide and conquer principles in a capitalist society masquerading as a democracy. At what point is enough, "enough"?
2. Ask questions a lot of them! Our children should be encouraged to ask questions as often as possible instead of regurgitating the state-sponsored propaganda that our schools teach. For example, because of corporate greed, we are creating an unsustainable society.
The use of "fossil fuels" is a ridiculous proposition within itself to assume that all of the world's oil came from decomposed dinosaurs, but it's even more asinine to assume we even need oil for fuel when hydro technologies are available, such as the water powered car invented by Stanley Meyer or Tesla's free energy system. Innovators, such as Meyer, are "rewarded" by threats and execution by those who fear the loss of power. The simplest answer is to open source all inventions, including suppressed technologies. Our children never learn these truths in school because according to our economic slave masters, innovation only comes at the expense of need, not conformity. Our children should be encouraged to be the innovators of the future who work in the best interests of humanity instead of CEO's and business executives who are pillaging our planet at the expense of the 99% who are enslaved beneath them.
3. Think outside the box Our educational system does not encourage creative thinking and the majority of what our children learn is all left-hemisphere thinking, which is mathematical and logic based, instead of right hemisphered, which is artistic and creative.
By doing so, our children are essentially being trained to work either inside a cubicle or at a fast food restaurant because they never learned the tools of creativity and how to follow their life purpose versus being forced into the corporate world of economic subservience until they are 65 years old.
4. STOP WATCHING (STATE SPONSORED PROPAGANDA) TELEVISION!!!
Watching TV is arguably the #1 brainwashing tool of the corporate elite as the television will tell you what to wear and how to think while taking away your own ability to think critically for yourself. The news programs are designed to keep us living in perpetual fear because when we live in fear, we move further away from our true spiritual essence. The use of fear also makes us more controllable as a population where we eventually give up our civil rights in exchange for perceived security. The commercials are just as bad as any "programming".
Most TV commercials show extroverts who are specifically dressed in a certain way with clothing that appeals to your senses in subliminal ways.
5. Try to eliminate as much fluoride from your daily routine Not only does fluoride help to contribute to a more subservient population, it also calcifies your pineal gland, otherwise known as the "3rd eye".
Your pineal gland is a gateway to other dimensions, so if it is calcified, then you will be limiting your utmost ability for creative thought and expression as well as dimming your spiritual connection to Creator and your higher self. The further you move away from spirituality, the easier it is for you to be controlled.
6. Research the detriments of vaccinations Please keep in mind that there is NO amount of mercury (in vaccines or elsewhere) that is good for anyone, especially children!
7. Do NOT ingest any genetically modified foods (or processed foods) There have been NO longitudinal studies on the effect of GMO's on our bodies, so we are all literally guinea pigs being tested. One thing you might want to consider is the poison that is built into specific foods, such as GMO corn. When a bug eats GMO corn, it explodes from the inside out because the BT Toxin is not in the husk of the corn, but it the corn, itself.
Imagine what this corn is doing to you and your children? Try to buy organic food or grow your own with organic heirloom seeds. When shopping at the grocery store, avoid just about all products in the middle aisles as they are generally all processed foods.
8. Teach your children how to meditate Meditation has the potential to literally transform the world.
In 1978, what is known as the "Maharishi Effect" a group of 7000 individuals over the course of 3 weeks were meditating in hopes of positively effecting the surrounding city. They were able to literally transform the collective energy of the city which reduced global crime rates, violence, and casualties during the times of their meditation by an average of 16%.
Suicide rates and automobile accidents also were reduced with all variables accounted for. In fact, there was a 72% reduction in terrorist activity during the times at which this group was meditation. When you meditate, you look within for answers instead of relying on other people's opinions, whether religious, political or educational. The truth is ALWAYS within. Anything you have ever been taught has been something that was regurgitated by someone else.
Look within and you will find the answers you are looking for.
Can you envision world without money? If you can't envision a world without money, then you will probably have a difficult time understanding the future, especially if you watch a lot of television. In the future, when a child is asked,
"What do you want to be when you grow up?",
...they will answer, "Me" and will have a concrete idea who "me" is versus the children who have been raised to worship the almighty dollar as they blindly follow the flock ahead of them through religious and educational institutions. We have been brainwashed for over 2,000 years.
It's time to break the chains...
Return to Consciousness and Sociopolitics
Return to Mind Control
