# Seven Key Events that are Going to Happen by the End of September

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_americanempire76.htm

by Michael Snyder June 11, 2015 from EndOfTheAmericanDream Website
Spanish version
For months, people have been pointing to the second half of this year for various reasons.
For some, the major concern is Jade Helm and the unprecedented movement of military vehicles and equipment that we have been witnessing all over the nation. For others, the upcoming fourth blood moon and the end of the Shemitah cycle are extremely significant events.
Yet others are most concerned about political developments in Washington D.C. and at the United Nations.
To me, it does seem rather remarkable that we are seeing such a confluence of economic, political and spiritual events coming together during the second half of 2015.
So is all of this leading up to something? Is our world about to change in a fundamental way?
So is all of this leading up to something?
Is our world about to change in a fundamental way?
Only time will tell.
The following are 7 key events that are going to happen by the end of September
Late June/Early July It is expected that this is when the U.S. Supreme Court will reveal their gay marriage decision. Most believe that the court will rule that gay marriage is a constitutional right in all 50 states. There are some that believe that this will be a major turning point for our nation. July 15th to September 15th A "realistic military training exercise" known as "Jade Helm" will be conducted by the U.S. Army. More than 1,000 members of the U.S. military will take part in this exercise. The list of states slated to be involved in these drills includes Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, California, Mississippi and Florida. July 28th On May 28th, Reuters reported that countries in the European Union were being given a two month deadline to enact "bail-in" legislation. Any nation that does not have "bail-in" legislation in place by that time will face legal action from the European Commission. So why is the European Union in such a rush to get this done? Are the top dogs in the EU anticipating that another great financial crisis is about to erupt? September 13th This is Elul 29 on the Biblical (jewish) calendar - the last day of the Shemitah year. Many are concerned about this date because we have seen giant stock market crashes on the last day of the previous two Shemitah cycles. On September 17th, 2001 (which was Elul 29 on the Biblical calendar), we witnessed the greatest one day stock market crash in U.S. history up until that time. The Dow plummeted 684 points, and it was a record that held for exactly seven years until the end of the next Shemitah cycle. On September 29th, 2008 (which was also Elul 29 on the Biblical calendar), the Dow fell by an astounding 777 points, which still today remains the greatest one day stock market crash of all time. Now we are approaching the end of another Shemitah year. So will the stock market crash on September 13th, 2015? Well, no, because that day is a Sunday. So I guarantee that the stock market will not crash on that particular day. But as Jonathan Cahn has pointed out in his book on the Shemitah, sometimes stock market crashes happen just before the end of the Shemitah year and sometimes they happen within just a few weeks after the end of the Shemitah. So we are not just looking at one particular date. September 15th The 70th session of the UN General Assembly begins on this date. It is being reported that France plans to introduce a resolution which would give formal UN Security Council recognition to a Palestinian state. Up until now, the United States has always been the one blocking such a resolution, but Barack Obama is indicating that things may be much different this time around. September 25th to September 27th The United Nations is going to launch a brand new sustainable development agenda for the entire planet. Some have called this "Agenda 21 on steroids". But this new agenda is not just about the environment. It also includes provisions regarding economics, agriculture, education and gender equality. On September 25th, the Pope will travel to New York to give a major speech kicking off the UN conference where this new agenda will be unveiled. September 28th This is the date for the last of the four blood moons that fall on Biblical festival dates during 2014 and 2015. This blood moon falls on the very first day of the jewish Feast of Tabernacles, it will be a "supermoon", and it will actually be visible in the city of Jerusalem. There are many that dismiss the blood moon phenomenon, but we have seen similar patterns before. For example, a similar pattern of eclipses happened just before and just after the destruction of the Jewish temple by the Romans in 70 AD.
Late June/Early July
It is expected that this is when the U.S. Supreme Court will reveal their gay marriage decision. Most believe that the court will rule that gay marriage is a constitutional right in all 50 states.
There are some that believe that this will be a major turning point for our nation.
July 15th to September 15th
A "realistic military training exercise" known as "Jade Helm" will be conducted by the U.S. Army. More than 1,000 members of the U.S. military will take part in this exercise.
The list of states slated to be involved in these drills includes Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, California, Mississippi and Florida.
July 28th
On May 28th, Reuters reported that countries in the European Union were being given a two month deadline to enact "bail-in" legislation.
Any nation that does not have "bail-in" legislation in place by that time will face legal action from the European Commission.
So why is the European Union in such a rush to get this done?
Are the top dogs in the EU anticipating that another great financial crisis is about to erupt?
September 13th
This is Elul 29 on the Biblical (jewish) calendar - the last day of the Shemitah year. Many are concerned about this date because we have seen giant stock market crashes on the last day of the previous two Shemitah cycles.
On September 17th, 2001 (which was Elul 29 on the Biblical calendar), we witnessed the greatest one day stock market crash in U.S. history up until that time. The Dow plummeted 684 points, and it was a record that held for exactly seven years until the end of the next Shemitah cycle.
On September 29th, 2008 (which was also Elul 29 on the Biblical calendar), the Dow fell by an astounding 777 points, which still today remains the greatest one day stock market crash of all time.
Now we are approaching the end of another Shemitah year. So will the stock market crash on September 13th, 2015? Well, no, because that day is a Sunday. So I guarantee that the stock market will not crash on that particular day.
But as Jonathan Cahn has pointed out in his book on the Shemitah, sometimes stock market crashes happen just before the end of the Shemitah year and sometimes they happen within just a few weeks after the end of the Shemitah.
So we are not just looking at one particular date.
September 15th
The 70th session of the UN General Assembly begins on this date. It is being reported that France plans to introduce a resolution which would give formal UN Security Council recognition to a Palestinian state.
Up until now, the United States has always been the one blocking such a resolution, but Barack Obama is indicating that things may be much different this time around.
September 25th to September 27th
The United Nations is going to launch a brand new sustainable development agenda for the entire planet. Some have called this "Agenda 21 on steroids".
But this new agenda is not just about the environment.
It also includes provisions regarding economics, agriculture, education and gender equality. On September 25th, the Pope will travel to New York to give a major speech kicking off the UN conference where this new agenda will be unveiled.
September 28th
This is the date for the last of the four blood moons that fall on Biblical festival dates during 2014 and 2015.
This blood moon falls on the very first day of the jewish Feast of Tabernacles, it will be a "supermoon", and it will actually be visible in the city of Jerusalem. There are many that dismiss the blood moon phenomenon, but we have seen similar patterns before.
For example, a similar pattern of eclipses happened just before and just after the destruction of the Jewish temple by the Romans in 70 AD.
Perhaps none of this alarms you.
But when you add everything above to the fact that the elite definitely appear to be feverishly preparing for something, a very alarming picture emerges.
For example, due to fears that a "natural disaster" could interrupt their operations in New York, the New York FED has been working hard to build up a satellite office in Chicago.
What kind of "natural disaster" could possibly be so bad that it would cause the entire New York FED to shut down?
And NORAD has decided to move back into the base deep inside Cheyenne Mountain after all these years. The threat of an electromagnetic pulse was the reason given for this decision.
By themselves, perhaps those moves would not be that big of a deal. But lets add all of the weird movements of military vehicles and equipment that we have been witnessing lately to this discussion.
I included this list from Intellihub in a previous article, but I believe that it bears repeating
On March 13th, Intellihub founder Shepard Ambellas detailed photos and documentation of nearly 40 U.S. Army soldiers, wielding training rifles and dressed in full combat gear, participating in an urban warfare style training drill just outside the Texarkana Regional Airport perimeter. In the middle of April, a report out of Big Springs, Texas revealed that a train full of military equipment and over a dozen helicopters had arrived in the town ahead of Jade Helm 2015. Photographs taken in Corona, California a few days later added to the Jade Helm speculation after they showed a MRAP full of what looked to be U.S. Marines driving down the 1-15 freeway. "In broad daylight with not a care in the world" On April 24th a shocking report on Intellihub News detailed armed troops seen confronting angry protesters in a "professional news package" of riot control training released by the military "A massive buildup, a lot of movement and its undeniable at this point," read the headline on April 25th after a convoy was seen in Oroville, California that stretched as far as the eye could see. Moving into May, photographs taken in Indiana showed a massive military convoy heading down the freeway. The photos, taken by a concerned citizen, show the convoy heading west on I-70 for reasons unknown. Two days later, video footage, this time out of Texarkana, Arkansas, highlighted a convoy of Humvees driving down the highway as well as a trainload of military vehicles that was seen shortly after. In mid May, Intellihub reporter Alex Thomas published a detailed report that confirmed that the military was indeed training to take on the American people, this time in the form of domestic house to house raids. The next day a new report, also by Alex Thomas, proved that Marines were actually practicing for the internment of American citizens. On May 18th, a train full of hundreds of military Humvees was spotted, further revealing the increased military buildup across the country leading into Jade Helm 2015. The train was heading towards Cleveland for unknown reasons although a possible connection to planned upcoming protests had been mentioned. This past week a massive military war game simulation called Raider Focus was announced. The war game will include the largest military convoy seen on the roads of Colorado since World War II. On may 23th, Intellihub News reported on pictures sent to ANP that show a 1/4 mile long military train convoy near the Colorado Wyoming border. Finally, a report published this week detailed a stunning propaganda move by the military involving a New Jersey school and the worship of the military on the streets of America. "As parents, teachers, and students looked on with joy, Marines from the Special-Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force landed helicopters on the baseball diamond of a New Jersey school."
On March 13th, Intellihub founder Shepard Ambellas detailed photos and documentation of nearly 40 U.S. Army soldiers, wielding training rifles and dressed in full combat gear, participating in an urban warfare style training drill just outside the Texarkana Regional Airport perimeter.
In the middle of April, a report out of Big Springs, Texas revealed that a train full of military equipment and over a dozen helicopters had arrived in the town ahead of Jade Helm 2015.
Photographs taken in Corona, California a few days later added to the Jade Helm speculation after they showed a MRAP full of what looked to be U.S. Marines driving down the 1-15 freeway.
"In broad daylight with not a care in the world"
On April 24th a shocking report on Intellihub News detailed armed troops seen confronting angry protesters in a "professional news package" of riot control training released by the military
"A massive buildup, a lot of movement and its undeniable at this point," read the headline on April 25th after a convoy was seen in Oroville, California that stretched as far as the eye could see.
Moving into May, photographs taken in Indiana showed a massive military convoy heading down the freeway. The photos, taken by a concerned citizen, show the convoy heading west on I-70 for reasons unknown.
Two days later, video footage, this time out of Texarkana, Arkansas, highlighted a convoy of Humvees driving down the highway as well as a trainload of military vehicles that was seen shortly after.
In mid May, Intellihub reporter Alex Thomas published a detailed report that confirmed that the military was indeed training to take on the American people, this time in the form of domestic house to house raids.
The next day a new report, also by Alex Thomas, proved that Marines were actually practicing for the internment of American citizens.
On May 18th, a train full of hundreds of military Humvees was spotted, further revealing the increased military buildup across the country leading into Jade Helm 2015. The train was heading towards Cleveland for unknown reasons although a possible connection to planned upcoming protests had been mentioned.
This past week a massive military war game simulation called Raider Focus was announced. The war game will include the largest military convoy seen on the roads of Colorado since World War II.
On may 23th, Intellihub News reported on pictures sent to ANP that show a 1/4 mile long military train convoy near the Colorado Wyoming border.
Finally, a report published this week detailed a stunning propaganda move by the military involving a New Jersey school and the worship of the military on the streets of America.
"As parents, teachers, and students looked on with joy, Marines from the Special-Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force landed helicopters on the baseball diamond of a New Jersey school."
What does all of this mean?
It is hard to say. We have imperfect information, so it is difficult to come up with perfect conclusions. But what I will say is that I believe that the second half of 2015 is going to be extremely significant.
I believe that events are about to start accelerating greatly, and I believe that life in America is about to change dramatically.
Return to American "Empire"
Return to Martial Law in USA? - The Death of Democracy
