# Six Ways Food is Being Used as A Weapon

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalfood40.htm

July 25, 2011 from ActivistPost Website
"True individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and independence. People who are hungry and out of a job are the stuff of which dictatorships are made."
Franklin Roosevelt Please visit Food Freedom for Rady Ananda's contributions to this article, as well as for the latest information about health news, original commentary, and activism.
Hungry people will do anything for food, which means that those who have control over food can use it as leverage.
In 1974, Henry Kissinger suggested using food as a weapon to induce targeted population reduction in a previously classified 200-page report, National Security Study Memorandum 200 - Implications of Worldwide Population Growth for U.S. Security and Overseas Interests.
The primary tactic to be applied is that food aid would be withheld from developing nations until they submitted to birth control policies:
There is also some established precedent for taking account of family planning performance in appraisal of assistance requirements by USAID [U.S. Agency for International Development] and consultative groups. Since population growth is a major determinant of increases in food demand, allocation of scarce PL 480 resources should take account of what steps a country is taking in population control as well as food production. In these sensitive relations, however, it is important in style as well as substance to avoid the appearance of coercion.
There is also some established precedent for taking account of family planning performance in appraisal of assistance requirements by USAID [U.S. Agency for International Development] and consultative groups.
Since population growth is a major determinant of increases in food demand, allocation of scarce PL 480 resources should take account of what steps a country is taking in population control as well as food production.
In these sensitive relations, however, it is important in style as well as substance to avoid the appearance of coercion.
So, food was to be used as just another method of imperial colonization to force countries to conform their policies to those desired by the controllers.
Notably, this tactic only works as a blunt weapon on territories enduring a severe economic collapse and with little resources for food production. Today, however, it appears that the entire globe is receiving an arsenal of food bombs as there appears to be a multifaceted attack on people's access to food.
In other words, what has been an admitted tactic for nearly 40 years of controlling food aid for regional population reduction has now grown more complex and expansive. Because of massive corporate consolidation of agriculture, centrally coordinated global regulations, a devalued commodity - dollar and unrestrained commodity speculation, chemical and genetic modification, and real or manipulated food shortages; there is indeed a war being waged - with food as the primary weapon.
Understand, this is a not purely a war on food, but rather a war on the general population. Therefore, it is crucial to understand these tactics in order to defend against them. Here are six ways food is being used to "Wage War Against The Population":
Food inflation Crippling food inflation is now affecting every corner of the world with the poorest feeling the worst pangs. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) food price index increased by 3 points to 234 points in June - a 39% increase on the year. These increases are causing mass starvation and rioting in many poor regions of the world, but they are also beginning to punish the middle-class in the Industrialized nations. The price of food is inflating primarily because of a devalued commodity-dollar from excessive money printing and Wall Street commodity speculation. Perhaps it's more appropriate to call it commodity manipulation, not speculation. As William Engdahl recently pointed out: "The ability to manipulate the price of essential foods worldwide at will - almost irrespective of todays physical supply and demand for grains - is quite recent... Up until the grain crisis of the mid-1970s there was no single 'world price' for grain, the benchmark for the price of all foods and food products." What fuels commodity speculation is not just the obvious decline of the dollar and a flight to something tangible, but also genuine supply concerns based on a variety of factors that cause crop shortages like extreme weather or disease. Regardless of real or manipulated food shortages, food prices will continue to rise because of increased demand and an incrementally weaker dollar. Luckily, there are many ways to protect yourself from food inflation and the food war in general. Shortages Through supply controls, food shortages have been used as a weapon to create regional conflicts, to encourage peacekeeping missions, and as a foreign policy carrot - as clearly outlined in Kissinger's 1974, Memorandum 200. The most recent examples can be found with the current and ongoing negotiations with North Korea who perpetually holds a nuclear gun to the West's head in exchange for food. Somalia, who was food self-sufficient until the 1970s, has become a "failed state" because of food shortages. Significantly, the situation in Somalia and other large-scale famine are usually caused by a manipulated economic collapse. In fact, many have reported that the lack of food was an underlying factor of the Egyptian revolution. Because of corporate consolidation of staple crops such as corn, soybeans, and wheat - and the central control of food aid - it is now easy to manipulate food shortages. But, clearly, there are also catastrophic weather events that destroy production in entire regions such as the heat wave in Russia last summer that caused them to restrict wheat exports in what some referred to as food wars. Many countries who had contracts with Russia were not happy, and their protectionist move had global effects on the food prices. In other words, imminent food shortages are typically a localized problem, but because the food system is so interconnected, local problems now affect the global community. Chemical Additives Chemical additives, from pesticides to preservatives, can only be viewed as a weapon in the depopulation agenda. Clearly, laboratory-concocted chemicals were never meant for human consumption. Therefore, they can only be attributed to an effort to deliberately and slowly poison the population. Many food and drink toxins like fluoride, aspartame, or monosodium glutamate (MSG) are now well-known to have negative health effects. Other lab creations like high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) are also beginning to prove very unhealthy with tests showing mercury in corn syrup. Incidentally, we dare you to find any sweet food that doesn't contain either aspartame or HFCS. Even wholesome Campbell's Tomato soup has HFCS, as does Heinz ketchup - while nearly every candy or gum contains aspartame. It's estimated that the average American consumes 12 teaspoons of HFCS per day, while the younger population consumes nearly double that. "Mercury is toxic in all its forms. Given how much high-fructose corn syrup is consumed by children, it could be a significant additional source of mercury never before considered," said Dr. David Wallinga of the Agriculture and Trade Policy whose study found about a third of brand-name foods with HFCS had measurable amounts of mercury. Pesticides fall into the chemical additive category - GM pesticides especially (called Bt toxins). They are found in the blood stream of nearly all North Americans, and even in 80% of their unborn babies. It is presumed these toxins are acquired by eating genetically modified corn or soy, and from the livestock that feed on it. A recent study proved that the chemical found in best-selling pesticides, glyphosate, causes birth defects among other ailments. We must understand that although all of these toxins, and a host of others, are approved for consumption by the FDA, it doesn't make them safe. And even the ones that have exotic names but have yet to be proven to have ill effects surely have a cumulative impact on human health. They're so pervasive that it seems impossible to evade them, but there are still ways to eat like a human. Regulations By restricting food freedom, regulatory agencies purposely increase dependence on the Big Ag monopoly cartel that fully controls the basic building blocks of food. Simply put, those who control the corn, wheat, soybeans and rice, control all food, since all livestock and all processed foods are dependent on those food sources. In America, and increasingly around the world, this cartel places their cronies in government regulatory agencies like the USDA to weed out their competition through excessive regulation. Furthermore, this restriction of food freedom is happening in concert across the globe, precisely because it is a top-down globalist initiative driven by international regulatory agencies such as the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. It is a complex, interwoven agenda that takes into account everything from health safety to land use rights in order to force independent food producers to conform in ways that only benefit a global corporate structure. Regulatory agencies are one of the primary weapons deployed against independent living. Genetic Modification There are many reasons to avoid eating genetically modified food, from health concerns to supporting a fundamentally evil food cartel. Genetically modified foods are the path to monopolies over human life through patented technology and environmental destruction by chemical-heavy monoculture practices. GMOs are so pervasive in the United States that it is estimated that 70% of the average American diet contains them. Many European countries, and other regions, have rejected GMOs. Hungary recently destroyed illegal GM corn crops and plans to make distributing seeds a felony offense. However, because of corporate/political pressure, most resistant countries are being forced to adopt them. All of this despite the fact that environmental infection and contamination are proven effects of transgenic plants. Meanwhile, the control is being implemented under convoluted patent laws, where the mutation itself signifies originality and control over the natural organism it imitates. The Weather Weather undeniably affects food access and food costs. One glance at maps across the U.S. reveals that food production areas are being especially hard hit, and we are seeing prices rise accordingly. These natural events can be exploited both by speculators and governments. However, with the introduction of weather modification, invested in by those such as Bill Gates and openly promoted by elite globalist think tanks, concerns have been raised over the possibility that governments could use weather as a deliberate weapon to create food wars. Accusations have already been leveled charging exactly that. While some might dismiss the various possibilities of "steering the weather" for malevolent purposes as conspiracy, it is much more difficult to ignore the 1996 document presented to the Air Force titled Owning the Weather 2025, which explicitly states as a heading on page 10: Applying Weather-modification to Military Operations. One key section states that weather control could be virtual, as well as literal: Offensive abilities could provide spoofing options to create virtual weather in the enemy's sensory and information systems, making it more likely for them to make decisions producing results of our choosing rather than theirs. It would also allow for the capability to mask or disguise our weather-modification activities. [...] Also key to the feasibility of such a system is the ability to model the extremely complex nonlinear system of global weather in ways that can accurately predict the outcome of changes in the influencing variables. [...] Conceivably, with enough lead time and the right conditions, you could get made-to-order weather. This would certainly be the ultimate endgame for anyone wishing to use food as a weapon of control and profit. This possibility should not be easily dismissed, but rather it warrants open-minded investigation and research.
Food inflation
Crippling food inflation is now affecting every corner of the world with the poorest feeling the worst pangs. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) food price index increased by 3 points to 234 points in June - a 39% increase on the year.
These increases are causing mass starvation and rioting in many poor regions of the world, but they are also beginning to punish the middle-class in the Industrialized nations. The price of food is inflating primarily because of a devalued commodity-dollar from excessive money printing and Wall Street commodity speculation.
Perhaps it's more appropriate to call it commodity manipulation, not speculation.
As William Engdahl recently pointed out:
"The ability to manipulate the price of essential foods worldwide at will - almost irrespective of todays physical supply and demand for grains - is quite recent... Up until the grain crisis of the mid-1970s there was no single 'world price' for grain, the benchmark for the price of all foods and food products."
What fuels commodity speculation is not just the obvious decline of the dollar and a flight to something tangible, but also genuine supply concerns based on a variety of factors that cause crop shortages like extreme weather or disease.
Regardless of real or manipulated food shortages, food prices will continue to rise because of increased demand and an incrementally weaker dollar.
Luckily, there are many ways to protect yourself from food inflation and the food war in general.
Shortages
Through supply controls, food shortages have been used as a weapon to create regional conflicts, to encourage peacekeeping missions, and as a foreign policy carrot - as clearly outlined in Kissinger's 1974, Memorandum 200.
The most recent examples can be found with the current and ongoing negotiations with North Korea who perpetually holds a nuclear gun to the West's head in exchange for food.
Somalia, who was food self-sufficient until the 1970s, has become a "failed state" because of food shortages. Significantly, the situation in Somalia and other large-scale famine are usually caused by a manipulated economic collapse.
In fact, many have reported that the lack of food was an underlying factor of the Egyptian revolution. Because of corporate consolidation of staple crops such as corn, soybeans, and wheat - and the central control of food aid - it is now easy to manipulate food shortages. But, clearly, there are also catastrophic weather events that destroy production in entire regions such as the heat wave in Russia last summer that caused them to restrict wheat exports in what some referred to as food wars.
Many countries who had contracts with Russia were not happy, and their protectionist move had global effects on the food prices.
In other words, imminent food shortages are typically a localized problem, but because the food system is so interconnected, local problems now affect the global community.
Chemical Additives
Chemical additives, from pesticides to preservatives, can only be viewed as a weapon in the depopulation agenda. Clearly, laboratory-concocted chemicals were never meant for human consumption.
Therefore, they can only be attributed to an effort to deliberately and slowly poison the population. Many food and drink toxins like fluoride, aspartame, or monosodium glutamate (MSG) are now well-known to have negative health effects. Other lab creations like high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) are also beginning to prove very unhealthy with tests showing mercury in corn syrup.
Incidentally, we dare you to find any sweet food that doesn't contain either aspartame or HFCS. Even wholesome Campbell's Tomato soup has HFCS, as does Heinz ketchup - while nearly every candy or gum contains aspartame.
It's estimated that the average American consumes 12 teaspoons of HFCS per day, while the younger population consumes nearly double that.
"Mercury is toxic in all its forms. Given how much high-fructose corn syrup is consumed by children, it could be a significant additional source of mercury never before considered," said Dr. David Wallinga of the Agriculture and Trade Policy whose study found about a third of brand-name foods with HFCS had measurable amounts of mercury.
Pesticides fall into the chemical additive category - GM pesticides especially (called Bt toxins).
They are found in the blood stream of nearly all North Americans, and even in 80% of their unborn babies. It is presumed these toxins are acquired by eating genetically modified corn or soy, and from the livestock that feed on it.
A recent study proved that the chemical found in best-selling pesticides, glyphosate, causes birth defects among other ailments. We must understand that although all of these toxins, and a host of others, are approved for consumption by the FDA, it doesn't make them safe.
And even the ones that have exotic names but have yet to be proven to have ill effects surely have a cumulative impact on human health.
They're so pervasive that it seems impossible to evade them, but there are still ways to eat like a human.
Regulations
By restricting food freedom, regulatory agencies purposely increase dependence on the Big Ag monopoly cartel that fully controls the basic building blocks of food.
Simply put, those who control the corn, wheat, soybeans and rice, control all food, since all livestock and all processed foods are dependent on those food sources. In America, and increasingly around the world, this cartel places their cronies in government regulatory agencies like the USDA to weed out their competition through excessive regulation.
Furthermore, this restriction of food freedom is happening in concert across the globe, precisely because it is a top-down globalist initiative driven by international regulatory agencies such as the World Trade Organization and the United Nations. It is a complex, interwoven agenda that takes into account everything from health safety to land use rights in order to force independent food producers to conform in ways that only benefit a global corporate structure.
Regulatory agencies are one of the primary weapons deployed against independent living.
Genetic Modification
There are many reasons to avoid eating genetically modified food, from health concerns to supporting a fundamentally evil food cartel. Genetically modified foods are the path to monopolies over human life through patented technology and environmental destruction by chemical-heavy monoculture practices.
GMOs are so pervasive in the United States that it is estimated that 70% of the average American diet contains them. Many European countries, and other regions, have rejected GMOs. Hungary recently destroyed illegal GM corn crops and plans to make distributing seeds a felony offense.
However, because of corporate/political pressure, most resistant countries are being forced to adopt them. All of this despite the fact that environmental infection and contamination are proven effects of transgenic plants.
Meanwhile, the control is being implemented under convoluted patent laws, where the mutation itself signifies originality and control over the natural organism it imitates.
The Weather
Weather undeniably affects food access and food costs.
One glance at maps across the U.S. reveals that food production areas are being especially hard hit, and we are seeing prices rise accordingly. These natural events can be exploited both by speculators and governments.
However, with the introduction of weather modification, invested in by those such as Bill Gates and openly promoted by elite globalist think tanks, concerns have been raised over the possibility that governments could use weather as a deliberate weapon to create food wars. Accusations have already been leveled charging exactly that.
While some might dismiss the various possibilities of "steering the weather" for malevolent purposes as conspiracy, it is much more difficult to ignore the 1996 document presented to the Air Force titled Owning the Weather 2025, which explicitly states as a heading on page 10: Applying Weather-modification to Military Operations.
One key section states that weather control could be virtual, as well as literal:
Offensive abilities could provide spoofing options to create virtual weather in the enemy's sensory and information systems, making it more likely for them to make decisions producing results of our choosing rather than theirs. It would also allow for the capability to mask or disguise our weather-modification activities. [...]
Also key to the feasibility of such a system is the ability to model the extremely complex nonlinear system of global weather in ways that can accurately predict the outcome of changes in the influencing variables. [...]
Conceivably, with enough lead time and the right conditions, you could get made-to-order weather.
This would certainly be the ultimate endgame for anyone wishing to use food as a weapon of control and profit. This possibility should not be easily dismissed, but rather it warrants open-minded investigation and research.
As we can see, food control is full spectrum, with wars being declared on the individual, states, and sovereign nations simultaneously.
Food controllers utilize health, politics, and economics to integrate their agenda. Only full spectrum solutions can be employed as protection. There is much hope to be offered through alternative markets, barter systems, and local co-ops.
We welcome your thoughts in the comments section below about other creative ideas we can implement to preserve our independence.
Return to Global Food Control
