# Something Wicked This Way Comes

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_911_2.htm

by Laura Knight-Jadczyk
29 October 2007
from Cassiopaea Website
Spanish version
After all the years of digging through the mud of the Matrix Control System and collecting data which leads to the inescapable idea that we are not at the top of the Food Chain here on the Big Blue Marble, there are still things that can affect me with a paralyzing sense of helplessness.
Reading Richard Dolans expose of the ongoing denial by the government of the "Alien Presence" on our planet - UFOs and the National Security State - is one of them.
Why? Because it is painfully obvious that most of humanity WANT to be deceived. Dolans chronological history of the actual interaction between UFOs and the public and the corresponding behavior of the military, the intelligence community, the media, the scientific community in ITS interaction with the public, make this abundantly clear. Dolan writes:
Some believe this is as it ought to be. Can the public really handle the truth about aliens? If the presence of others constitutes a threat to humanity, for example, what could the average person even do about it? There are those who believe that secrecy about UFOs is in the publics best interest. [Dolan]
Some believe this is as it ought to be. Can the public really handle the truth about aliens? If the presence of others constitutes a threat to humanity, for example, what could the average person even do about it?
There are those who believe that secrecy about UFOs is in the publics best interest.
[Dolan]
Dolan, who studied at Alfred University and Oxford, and did his graduate work in history at the University of Rochester, is a scholar of Cold War Strategy, Soviet History and culture, and international diplomacy.
His thoroughly documented and factual account reveals how, from the early 1940s to the 1970s, military personnel around the globe encountered unidentified flying objects hundreds and even thousands of times. In some cases, these encounters involved injury and even death to military personnel. What is also of great interest is that the military continues to scramble jets to pursue UFOs, to attempt to shoot them down or otherwise force a confrontation. Dolan cites documents and reports of exactly this sort which certainly begs the question: if, as some people suggest, the military are hiding the UFO matter because they are in cahoots, why are they still trying to pursue them and shoot them down? Based on the documents assembled by Dolan, it is obvious that the governments of the world do indeed see the UFO problem as a very, very serious matter. In the course of assembling his material, Dolan came to the inescapable conclusion that there exists an "Above Top Secret" group with access to all available UFO data, and that this group "straddled" the worlds of government, military, and industry. The evidence proves circumstantially - and in some cases, via limited documentation - that the military created a complete fiction for public consumption which posited that the UFO problem was "nonexistent." They were assisted in pulling the wool over the eyes of the public by "heavy handed official media and culture," and they were obviously under orders to consistently and repeatedly "debunk" the idea that aliens were ensconced in our world. Many conspiracy theorists propose that the reason for this is because there is an interactive relationship between the governments, the military, and "Aliens." But it is clear from Dolans history that the problem is deeper and wider than that. They wouldnt be scrambling jets to go after them if they were in cahoots. As we have surmised from our collection of data reported in the Timeline Series, there is definitely a group of "global elite" that fits the description given by Dolan. What is most worrisome is their influence in the creation of the "National Security State Within the State" by controlling and manipulating not only high level military officers, but also members of our legislative bodies and even the executive branch of the government.
Dolan chronicles how certain individuals in government were apparently influenced to legislatively create the agencies that now control their creators. Of course, only a very few instances of this direct interaction between the "Controllers" and the real government have taken place. But that is all it took. As a result of these machinations, organizations have been formed in the United States that are not subject to the will of the people. They are not subject to the oversight of our elected officials, and they are most certainly not even subject to the oversight of the Chief Executive.
In fact, it could be safely estimated that the Chief Executive of the United States is, at all times, a puppet of this "Above Top Secret" group.
So we can pretty well discount the idea of a government conspiracy in the halls of congress that we all know and love. What seems to be true is that most of our elected officials are as much victims of the debunking as anybody else. And the same is true about mainstream science. Dolan writes:
The most noteworthy feature of the American national security state during the late 1960s was its covert pervasiveness throughout American society. First, Hoovers FBI. In 1968, the bureau initiated a COINTEL program [...] Next to the bureau, the military intelligence services became the most important component of the domestic intelligence scene. Army intelligence had nearly unlimited funds, extensive manpower, specialized personnel, deep planning and training resources, and the most sophisticated communications and data processing capability. [...] The armys intelligence surveillance did not focus on tactical and reconnaissance data, but on political and ideological intelligence within the United States. (This was wholly illegal.) [...] Then there was the CIA. By the late 1960s, there were more spies than diplomats in the State Department, or employees in the Department of Labor. [...] When the Weather Underground, a radical splinter of the SDS, had an "acid test" to detect agents provocateurs, they had no idea that the CIA had been tripping on LSD throughout the 1950s, creating a special caste of "enlightened agents" for precisely these occasions. [Based on this, we wonder about "agents provocateur" in the New Age and UFO community who are "specially trained?"] The agency continued its work on mind control. Following the work of Dr. Jose Delgado [experiments in] Electrical Stimulation of the Brain [were conducted.] This involves implanting electrodes into the brain and body, with the result that the subjects memory, impulses, and feelings could all be controlled. Moreover, ESB could evoke hallucinations, as well as fear and pleasure. "It could literally manipulate the human will at will," [said Dr. Rober Keefe, a neurosurgeon at Tulane University.] In 1968, George Estabrooks, another spook scientist, spoke indiscreetly to a reporter for the Providence Evening Bulletin. "The key to creating an effective spy or assassin, rests in creating a multiple personality with the aid of hypnosis," a procedure which he described as "childs play." By early 1969, teams within the CIA were running a number of bizarre experiments in mind control under the name Operation Often. In addition to the normal assortment of chemists, biologists, and conventional scientists, the operation employed psychics and experts in demonology. Over at the NSA, all one can say with certainty is that its budget dwarfed all others within the intelligence community. [Dolan]
The most noteworthy feature of the American national security state during the late 1960s was its covert pervasiveness throughout American society. First, Hoovers FBI. In 1968, the bureau initiated a COINTEL program [...] Next to the bureau, the military intelligence services became the most important component of the domestic intelligence scene. Army intelligence had nearly unlimited funds, extensive manpower, specialized personnel, deep planning and training resources, and the most sophisticated communications and data processing capability. [...] The armys intelligence surveillance did not focus on tactical and reconnaissance data, but on political and ideological intelligence within the United States. (This was wholly illegal.) [...] Then there was the CIA. By the late 1960s, there were more spies than diplomats in the State Department, or employees in the Department of Labor. [...] When the Weather Underground, a radical splinter of the SDS, had an "acid test" to detect agents provocateurs, they had no idea that the CIA had been tripping on LSD throughout the 1950s, creating a special caste of "enlightened agents" for precisely these occasions. [Based on this, we wonder about "agents provocateur" in the New Age and UFO community who are "specially trained?"] The agency continued its work on mind control. Following the work of Dr. Jose Delgado [experiments in] Electrical Stimulation of the Brain [were conducted.] This involves implanting electrodes into the brain and body, with the result that the subjects memory, impulses, and feelings could all be controlled. Moreover, ESB could evoke hallucinations, as well as fear and pleasure.
"It could literally manipulate the human will at will," [said Dr. Rober Keefe, a neurosurgeon at Tulane University.]
In 1968, George Estabrooks, another spook scientist, spoke indiscreetly to a reporter for the Providence Evening Bulletin.
"The key to creating an effective spy or assassin, rests in creating a multiple personality with the aid of hypnosis," a procedure which he described as "childs play."
By early 1969, teams within the CIA were running a number of bizarre experiments in mind control under the name Operation Often. In addition to the normal assortment of chemists, biologists, and conventional scientists, the operation employed psychics and experts in demonology. Over at the NSA, all one can say with certainty is that its budget dwarfed all others within the intelligence community.
Dolan documents how the intelligence organizations of the United States - and very likely other countries who are working in concert with them, though outwardly they may pretend to be oppositional - have conducted terminal mind-control experiments, biological spraying of American cities, human plutonium and syphilis injections, illegal communications interception, and nationwide domestic surveillance of private citizens, political assassinations and coups, ongoing media manipulation and outright public lying on a continual basis, most especially in regards to UFOs. The above organizations, via any and all means available, made sure that, to the public at large, UFOs and aliens were a "dead issue." Scientist and UFO disclosure advocate James McDonald said in 1969:
"I am enough of a realist to sense that, unless this AAAS symposium succeeds in making the scientific community aware of the seriousness of the UFO problem, little response to any call for new investigations is likely to appear."
McDonald presented a brilliant paper entitled "Science in Default - Twenty-two Years of Inadequate UFO Investigations." Dolan comments that it was "perhaps the most damning statement about UFO research ever made." Speaking before the convention at Bostons Sheraton Plaza Hotel, McDonald came down hard on everyone: Condon, Menzel, Hynek, and finally the scientific establishment itself.
He said:
No scientifically adequate investigation of the UFO problem has been carried out during the entire twenty-two years that have now passed since the first extensive wave of sightings of unidentified aerial objects in the summer of 1947... In my opinion, the UFO problem, far from being the nonsense problem that it has often been labeled by many scientists, constitutes a problem of extraordinary scientific interest. The grave difficulty with essentially all past UFO studies had been that they were either devoid of any substantial scientific content, or else have lost their way amidst the relatively large noise content that tends to obscure the real signal in the UFO reports.
No scientifically adequate investigation of the UFO problem has been carried out during the entire twenty-two years that have now passed since the first extensive wave of sightings of unidentified aerial objects in the summer of 1947...
In my opinion, the UFO problem, far from being the nonsense problem that it has often been labeled by many scientists, constitutes a problem of extraordinary scientific interest.
The grave difficulty with essentially all past UFO studies had been that they were either devoid of any substantial scientific content, or else have lost their way amidst the relatively large noise content that tends to obscure the real signal in the UFO reports.
Lets run that by one more time:
the "relatively large noise content that tends to obscure the real signal in the UFO reports."
This high noise to signal ratio is, based on the evidence, the direct product of the frenzied activities of the "National Security State."
What is also clearly evident is that this NOISE is the fundament of the prevailing scientific doctrine.
What we see is that the Scientific Community - though they claim to be seekers of advanced scientific truth - have been as easily duped as Joe Sixpack who is interested in little more than his truck, his dog, and his weekend football game. What I also suspect is that even the lower echelons of the intelligence and military organizations must be included in this rather large grouping of the duped and deceived sheep. An example of this duping of those investigating the matter from the "bottom up," is Andrew Tully who wrote "The Super Spies," supposedly an early report on the NSA. He, and many who have followed him, suggest that the UFO is an "intelligence" device and that it evolved out of Nazi Secrets brought to the US under Project Paperclip. Dolan lays out the evidence and disabuses us of the notion that the UFO activity could be human, technological breakthroughs as such naive conspiracy theorists propose. As he says, "all of the indicators point to a definitive NO." He then points out that, every single person who actually STUDIES the UFO problem [yours truly included - who began as a flaming skeptic] - becomes convinced that it IS a problem of Alien invasion of our planet.
Every official study of UFOs persuaded the researchers that aliens were the explanation for the data.
But that data has been denied, and when denial no longer worked, it was obscured by the noise, the smoke and mirrors that prevail today in UFO research. Another evident production of "noise" is the nonsense that passes today as "channeling" or "alien contacts".
Indeed, this website presents what might loosely be termed channeled material, but as we have noted repeatedly, it is not your usual channeled info, nor do we treat it as such. For us here at Cassiopaea, a controlled channeling experiment is the 10% inspiration that must be matched by the 90% perspiration of real research. With a broad historical awareness of the facts, a firm grounding in the realization that most of what is out there is deliberate disinformation, the individual who surveys the plethora of "alternative information" in books and on the internet, can easily recognize the "noise" factor produced by the Secret State.
Dolan tells us:
By the early 1970s, there were already means available to alter the moods of unsuspecting persons. A pocket-sized transmitter generating electromagnetic energy at less than 100 milliwatts could do the job. This is no pie-in-the-sky theory. In 1972, Dr. Gordon J.F. McDonald testified before the House Subcommittee on Oceans and International Environment on the issue of electromagnetic weapons used for mind control and mental disruption. He stated: [T]he basic notion was to create, between the electrically charged ionosphere in the higher part of the atmosphere and conducting layers of the surface of the Earth, this neutral cavity, to create waves, electrical waves that would be tuned to the brain waves. ...About ten cycles per second. ...You can produce changes in behavioral patterns or in responses. The following year, Dr. Joseph C. Sharp, at Walter Reed Hospital, while in a soundproof room, was able to hear spoken words broadcast by pulsed microwave audiogram. These words were broadcast to him without any implanted electronic translation device. Rather, they reached him by direct transmission to the brain. [Dolan]
By the early 1970s, there were already means available to alter the moods of unsuspecting persons. A pocket-sized transmitter generating electromagnetic energy at less than 100 milliwatts could do the job.
This is no pie-in-the-sky theory. In 1972, Dr. Gordon J.F. McDonald testified before the House Subcommittee on Oceans and International Environment on the issue of electromagnetic weapons used for mind control and mental disruption.
He stated:
[T]he basic notion was to create, between the electrically charged ionosphere in the higher part of the atmosphere and conducting layers of the surface of the Earth, this neutral cavity, to create waves, electrical waves that would be tuned to the brain waves. ...About ten cycles per second. ...You can produce changes in behavioral patterns or in responses.
The following year, Dr. Joseph C. Sharp, at Walter Reed Hospital, while in a soundproof room, was able to hear spoken words broadcast by pulsed microwave audiogram.
These words were broadcast to him without any implanted electronic translation device. Rather, they reached him by direct transmission to the brain.
Consider the above in terms of "chemtrails."
And note the comments of Cs regarding same?
12-04-99 Q: (L) But, the fact still remains, in my opinion, that there are a LOT, LOT, LOT of planes flying above us in the past few years! Whether they are dumping anything on our heads, or what, there are an extreme number of planes flying in these upper level criss-cross patterns. Now, whether they are just playing war-games, or they are spy planes, they are doing SOMETHING! What is the reason for all of this upper level flying that results in these criss-crossed contrails that everybody is seeing? A: A lot of it is "training maneuver" oriented. Q: Why are they training so many pilots? What are they preparing for? A: Military budgets must be justified, you know. Review "Military-Industrial Complex 101." Q: So, this is just training flight, justification of budget, and nothing more than that? A: Well, we would not say "not anything more to it than that," but, when you say "M-IC," you have said a lot! Q: Are you implying that there is a build-up of the Military-Industrial Complex for a reason? A: To preserve status quo during "peacetime." This peace business is not very profitable, you know. Q: Does that suggest that they are building up to set off a war so they can make more money? A: Maybe if indeed, and if the populous can be hoodwinked. But, fortunately, the public is less hoodwinkable. Maybe the real enemy is "out there, " rather than "over there." Was it not always? Q: Does any of this increased aircraft activity have anything to do with the increased awareness and activities of aliens in and around our planet? A: As always. But, this awareness is factionalized and compartmentalized.
12-04-99
Q: (L) But, the fact still remains, in my opinion, that there are a LOT, LOT, LOT of planes flying above us in the past few years! Whether they are dumping anything on our heads, or what, there are an extreme number of planes flying in these upper level criss-cross patterns. Now, whether they are just playing war-games, or they are spy planes, they are doing SOMETHING! What is the reason for all of this upper level flying that results in these criss-crossed contrails that everybody is seeing? A: A lot of it is "training maneuver" oriented.
Q: Why are they training so many pilots? What are they preparing for? A: Military budgets must be justified, you know. Review "Military-Industrial Complex 101."
Q: So, this is just training flight, justification of budget, and nothing more than that? A: Well, we would not say "not anything more to it than that," but, when you say "M-IC," you have said a lot!
Q: Are you implying that there is a build-up of the Military-Industrial Complex for a reason? A: To preserve status quo during "peacetime." This peace business is not very profitable, you know.
Q: Does that suggest that they are building up to set off a war so they can make more money? A: Maybe if indeed, and if the populous can be hoodwinked. But, fortunately, the public is less hoodwinkable. Maybe the real enemy is "out there, " rather than "over there." Was it not always?
Q: Does any of this increased aircraft activity have anything to do with the increased awareness and activities of aliens in and around our planet? A: As always. But, this awareness is factionalized and compartmentalized.
The Cs comments take on a whole new meaning in light of the present situation - 9/11 and all that, as well as Bushs drive for "war." We have already mentioned the fact that research in Electrical Stimulation of the brain could produce hallucinations. If you put hallucinations together with words, you can produce just about anything in the way of "noise" to obscure the truth that you want - including the "shape-shifting reptoids-as-humans," or a "gray dude in the bathroom," or a "Guardian Alliance," or a "Nibiruan Council," or an "Ashtar Command," or talking Zetas, whales and dolphins, etc.
You name it - they can produce it via voices in the head and hallucinations and transmissions of frequencies that produce ecstatic states, healings, or whatever. And so it is that the human element of the Cosmic Cointelpro operation manages their many "agents" of disinformation - pied pipers leading the masses of New Age seekers - so that whatever the real truth is, remains their secret.
And thats exactly the way they want it. In essence, Dolans book shows us the history of how the many levels of society have been duped and deceived - or directly controlled - from the average citizen, to the seeker of higher truths, to the scions of science and industry, to the, hallowed halls of government. Each "type" has been targeted in the way most likely to "manage" them best.
Those who cannot be "managed" generally die, as scientist James McDonald - and others - did. But all the while, the UFOs kept coming, and people kept seeing them, and they kept asking questions.
In April 1971, an engineering research magazine, Industrial Research, published the results of a poll in which 80 percent of its members rejected the Condon Report; 76 percent believed that the government was concealing UFO facts; 32 percent believed that UFOs were extraterrestrial. Poll or no poll, the CIA continued to lie about its UFO interests. [...] The worst story of 1971 was the demise of James McDonald. [Atmospheric physicist from the University of Arizona.] As far as anyone could tell, McDonald was fine all through 1970 and into 1971. On march 2, 1971, he testified as an expert in atmospheric physics at the House committee on Appropriations regarding the supersonic transport (SST) and its potentially harmful atmospheric effects. McDonalds opponents questioned his credentials and ridiculed him as someone who believed in "little men flying around the sky." Laughter broke out several times. Shortly after this incident, McDonald shot himself in the head and became blind. He was committed to the psychiatric ward of the VA medical Center in Tucson. In June, he signed himself out. On Sunday morning, June 13, a woman in south Tucson, identifying herself as a doctor, said a deranged blind man had taken a cab to the area. She wanted to know where the driver had dropped him off, and she made several calls. Meanwhile, a married couple and their children, walking along a shallow creek, found McDonalds body under a bridge at 11:40 a.m. A .38 caliber revolver was in the sand, near his head. A brief note attributed his suicide to marriage and family problems. [...] We know that many intelligence agencies were skilled in "creating" suicides. But, one might ask, wasnt McDonalds mental condition already deteriorating? Jerome Clark stated that McDonald was ready to "crack" in the aftermath of the SST hearings. But what caused this? Embarrassment at the SST hearings? His marriage? Perhaps, one supposes, but both of these explanations feel flimsy. Without exception, those who knew McDonald described him as possessing great integrity and courage. Was he really the type of person to commit suicide? [Dolan]
In April 1971, an engineering research magazine, Industrial Research, published the results of a poll in which 80 percent of its members rejected the Condon Report; 76 percent believed that the government was concealing UFO facts; 32 percent believed that UFOs were extraterrestrial. Poll or no poll, the CIA continued to lie about its UFO interests. [...] The worst story of 1971 was the demise of James McDonald. [Atmospheric physicist from the University of Arizona.] As far as anyone could tell, McDonald was fine all through 1970 and into 1971. On march 2, 1971, he testified as an expert in atmospheric physics at the House committee on Appropriations regarding the supersonic transport (SST) and its potentially harmful atmospheric effects. McDonalds opponents questioned his credentials and ridiculed him as someone who believed in "little men flying around the sky." Laughter broke out several times. Shortly after this incident, McDonald shot himself in the head and became blind. He was committed to the psychiatric ward of the VA medical Center in Tucson. In June, he signed himself out. On Sunday morning, June 13, a woman in south Tucson, identifying herself as a doctor, said a deranged blind man had taken a cab to the area.
She wanted to know where the driver had dropped him off, and she made several calls. Meanwhile, a married couple and their children, walking along a shallow creek, found McDonalds body under a bridge at 11:40 a.m. A .38 caliber revolver was in the sand, near his head. A brief note attributed his suicide to marriage and family problems. [...] We know that many intelligence agencies were skilled in "creating" suicides.
But, one might ask, wasnt McDonalds mental condition already deteriorating? Jerome Clark stated that McDonald was ready to "crack" in the aftermath of the SST hearings. But what caused this? Embarrassment at the SST hearings? His marriage? Perhaps, one supposes, but both of these explanations feel flimsy. Without exception, those who knew McDonald described him as possessing great integrity and courage.
Was he really the type of person to commit suicide?
McDonald had been described as a man who was "afraid of nothing."
What seems to be so is that this was why he was destroyed. Hynek had written that McDonald was considered by the Air Force to be an "outstanding nuisance." We already know what "they" can do to the mind. Even the strongest. Courage and integrity, it seems, are no protection.
And we would like to note another curious death - that of Edward Ruppelt. After years as an advocate of disclosure, he suddenly did an about face - re-wrote his book recanting his belief that UFOs were extraterrestrial craft, and was dead within a year at a very young age.
It looks to me as though, if they cant corrupt you, they kill you, and if they CAN corrupt you, they still kill you so you wont have a chance to change your mind and recant your recantation like Jacques de Molay did when the Templars were destroyed. Those who get close to the belly of the beast are generally subjected to a new "approach" it seems. And that approach is the biggest betrayal of all. Many important and influential people have attested to the reality of the UFO phenomenon as an "alien reality." Within the military organizations, those who affirm the "alien hypothesis" are widespread and numerous. But, as Dolan shows us, they cannot discuss those views without risking the penalties of imprisonment and stiff fines. In the present day, we have Steven Greers "Disclosure Project."
Based on the mail I get, it seems that many in the New Age/UFO community think that this is a great and novel idea. However, history shows that it has been tried before. The one thing about Greers effort that suggests it is just more and better COINTELPRO, is his attachment to the "aliens are here to help us" idea which is directly contradicted by history, though widely promoted by most "contactees."
Even Linda Howe, for a long time the most reputable of careful researchers - and no stranger to the machinations of the Secret State - seems to have fallen for this one. It is also now being promoted in Fate Magazine by Rosemary Guiley, who has connections to military "agents." Dolan documents the failure of civilian groups in their efforts to really "end UFO secrecy." NICAP had prominent and active members, connections to Congress and the military, and their effort continued for over ten years. NICAP fought diligently for congressional hearings, and yet every time they got "close" to bringing it to the table for public consideration, the congressional sponsorship "backed off" and reversed their support. What kind of group is it that can control our government in this way? An even deeper question might be: What kind of group is it that can control the media, the military, the CIA, the FBI, NSA, and even the President? What do they do to intimidate and dominate ethical and substantial persons in positions of authority? Whatever it is, we would certainly like to know because it suggests that they are hiding something so significant that even hints of it behind closed doors can send the most powerful congressmen running with their tails tucked between their legs. This brings us back to the problem of the Secret State and its agenda. Some people believe that this secrecy is absolutely essential. They say that the public simply could not handle the truth about aliens. They say that there is no reason to spoil peoples lives with the truth because there is nothing that the average person could do about it anyway.
Is that really true? Would there be so much effort to conceal the alien agenda if disclosure of the truth wasnt harmful to that agenda? What is clearly evident, and most especially so in the past year or two, is that the "public interest" is NOT the concern of those making these decisions. As Dolan rightly says, secrecy is being utilized NOT to protect the public, but to protect those keeping the secrets - the "Above Top Secret" group - and very likely even the aliens themselves.
When we consider the modus operandi of the intelligence community, in its historical perspective, what we see is that, at every level, right up to the very top, there is control and manipulation.
This leads me to suggest that even those at the top level of the human Consortium are being duped and deceived and are as unable and/or unwilling to consider that possibility as those at the lower levels. It seems obvious from the documentary evidence as well as the behavior of the military in response to UFOs and the "alien matter," that the aliens DO have an agenda, and that - at some level in the layers of secrecy - there are those who KNOW - at least on a "need to know" basis - what that agenda is. It seems abundantly evident that the secrecy has been enjoined on this group BY the aliens themselves. What is more, a careful assessment of the evidence does NOT suggest a benevolent agenda. As a result of the manipulations of this "Consortium," the majority of Americans are inculcated into the fiction of a representative government - a democracy - and that our scientists and representatives are "taking care of business" for us, and even if they are sometimes corrupt, they arent as bad as a totalitarian regime. It has become most definitely obvious in the past couple of years that this is NOT the case - and probably never was.
We dont even really elect our representatives. Its all a sham. But the fiction propagated by the media has clouded the ability of the American people to see their society and government for what it really is: an oligarchy that pretends to be a democracy to placate and deceive the public. To those who suggest that it doesnt really matter since it is an efficient way to organize and manage millions of people, let us suggest that it is suicidal to think that an oligarchy is not primarily interested in maintaining its own position to the exclusion of all other considerations. When we consider the evidence, we see that the groups in question have NEVER acted in the best interests of the public.
If you doubt this, spend some time reading about nonconsensual human experimentation.
And so, logically speaking, there is NO reason to even suggest that the secrecy surrounding the "alien reality" is any different. Dolan notes that, as a result of the concerted "debunking" of UFOs perpetrated on a populace that has been mind manipulated and dumbed down by public "education" for a very long time, our society has become extraordinarily schizophrenic about UFOs. At the level of "officialdom," as in academics, mainstream media, government and so forth, UFOs are either ignored or treated as a joke.
You wont find UFOs or Aliens - or their repeated invasion of sensitive airspace - discussed on the nightly news. You wont find Ted Koppel analyzing them as a threat to National Security. And this state of affairs is totally bizarre because it is abundantly - overwhelmingly - clear and evident that our military and intelligence organizations consider them to be so important that information about them is classified "Above Top Secret." However, being classified "Above Top Secret" does not seem to matter to the aliens.
They arrogantly do as they please and leave the "clean up" to their human lackeys the same way some media personalities have been reported to destroy hotel rooms, and then have their accountants write checks to cover the damages, while their agents give press releases that deny any such thing ever happened. This brings us back to the efforts of COINTELPRO. Since the military is in the position of dealing with beings of such arrogance that their checks dont cover the damage they do, the "press releases" are issued in the form of diversion and division. UFOs and the "alien reality" are promoted in ways that simply do not relate to the documentary evidence or the factual data.
UFOs and aliens are given cachet in the New Age and metaphysical communities, and groups studying them or "channeling" them are "managed" so that the possibility of exposure of the Truth is completely minimized in the plethora of conflicting, generated "beliefs." At the same time, there are organizations that are set up to operate as "professional debunkers" and disinformation artists. Smoke and mirrors and endless confusion. What is evident from the documents and statements of those "in on the secret," is that the current "popularity" of aliens and New Age presentations of the subject are the direct result of deliberate infiltration by intelligence personnel who are continually "spinning the wheel" of lies and distortion. UFOs have national security implications for a lot of reasons, not the least of which is that they have involved military and industrial personnel of many nations around the globe. This situation has existed for over fifty years. In fact, a careful study of history shows an intersection between UFOs and the military for hundreds, if not thousands of years!
Unauthorized airspace violations continue to occur; attempted interceptions repeatedly take place; and the secrecy orders are more severe now than ever. We have to ask ourselves why this is so? If the military organizations are as interested in UFOs and Aliens as we KNOW them to be based on the evidence, and if they are in the DARK about them, as the evidence also suggests, would they not be utilizing the many claimed "alien contacts" among the New Age community as resources IF there was the possibility that such sources really WERE in contact with the "aliens" in and about the planet as they claim? That the military does not credit the contactees is compelling evidence that they KNOW something about the "contactees" that renders them useless. What seems to be true is that most contactees and channelers are dupes of the military cover-up - victims of COINTELPRO - created to generate the noise that hides the signal of the true Alien Reality. In short, the majority of claims of channelers, contactees, new age gurus, UFO researchers, and the like, both in books and on the internet, about the "alien reality," is COINTELPRO at its finest. Take that to the bank. One thing is clear: the UFO/Alien issue is NOT under the control of the military - or anybody else. But that they continue to debunk and cover it up - in the face of its violations of their own airspace - suggests to us again the analogy of arrogant and powerful Masters of Reality, aided and abetted by their military and intelligence organization servants who, all the while they are obeying the powerful overlords, seek to keep everything quiet while they try desperately to discover the secrets of power so as to arrogate it to themselves.
And it seems evident that, in the present time, the game is afoot in the citadels of Power and Secrets.
Something is happening and the servants of the alien masters are running scared.
They are trying to cement controls, to solidify their power base, because Something Wicked This Way Comes.
Return to Ponerology - The Science of Evil
Return to Vida en Nuestra Galaxia
Return to COINTELPRO
Return to Laura Knight
