# Something Funny Is Going On - Our Government Is Not What It Appears to Be

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_obama64.htm

by Alfred Adask
August 10, 2010
from Adask Website
Spanish version
The Manta.com website includes a database of over 63 million US and foreign companies.
That database info is provided by Dun & Bradstreet (D&B). Manta.com will provide preliminary information on each of these millions of companies for free. If you want more in-depth info, theres a fee. But since this article is about funny stuff, and paying fees isnt fun, lets run a few free searches and see what we can find. You might be surprised. For example, if you type Government of the United States into the Manta.com search engine, youll be whisked to a list of 7,666 matching US companies. The first company on the list is:
Government of the United States (US Government) HQ"the U.S. Capitol Washington DC
The HQ stands for headquarters. If you scroll down the list of other companies below the Government of the United States, youll find branches like,
Executive Office of the United States Government (6 entries)" United States Department of the Air Force (US Government)" The Navy United States Department of (US Government Naval Reserves) United States Court of Appeals For The 11th Circuit United States Courthouse
Executive Office of the United States Government (6 entries)"
United States Department of the Air Force (US Government)"
The Navy United States Department of (US Government Naval Reserves)
United States Court of Appeals For The 11th Circuit United States Courthouse
Apparently, the Navy, Air Force and Courts are companies. Thats kinda funny, doncha think? If you click on the Government of the United States HQ link, youll see another website page with some fairly detailed - and possibly bewildering - information. For example, youll see that this Government of the United States has its address at:
the U.S. CapitolWashington, DC 20515-0001
Its phone number is (202) 224-3121. Business Hours are 24/7. You can click the map link and see a graphic indicating that this Government is located on Capitol Hill (same place as Congress) in Washington DC. None of that seems particularly surprising (other than the idea that our Government might be a company and/or a conglomerate of companies).
But the Manta.com report does begin to seem a little strange under the heading About Government Of The United States where we read:
government, owner archbishop deric r. mccloud of basilica shrine michigan and 4th ne street washington, dc.
Say whut?
Does that abbreviated text really indicate that the owner of the Government Of The United States is an archbishop named Deric R. McCloud? Who could be dumb enough to think (or even mistakenly write) that the Government of the United States was owned by an archbishop? A: Apparently, Dunn & Bradstreet was dumb enough.
Does that abbreviated text really indicate that the owner of the Government Of The United States is an archbishop named Deric R. McCloud?
Who could be dumb enough to think (or even mistakenly write) that the Government of the United States was owned by an archbishop?
A: Apparently, Dunn & Bradstreet was dumb enough.
And just in case you think we cant be talking about the Government of the United States, take a gander at the Additional Information heading and youll read (as of August 6th, A.D. 2010):
all receipents [sic] of federal funds that have any kind of criminal case or felony federal, state, local or served time in prison federal, state, benefits terminate 7/26/10 by barack obama administration.
The reference to Barack Obama shows that this entry for Government of the United States HQ does, indeed, describe the very same Government of the United States that we all so love and admire. (Dont forget that this Government and all its various branches are being reported by D&B to be individual, private companies.) OK, OK - maybe this article isnt really all that funny (ha-ha!), but its still pretty funny (strange). Go back to the top of the Government of the United States page and click the More Info tab.
Under Employees (Estimated) youll read:
2,768,886At this location3
2.7 million federal employees sounds about right. This enormous number of employees confirms that were viewing information on the Government of the United States.
But if only 3 of those millions of employees are At this location (the HQ) who are the chosen 3? And where, precisely is this location? Capitol Hill? Yes - but where on Capitol Hill? In the Senate chamber? The House of Representatives?
But if only 3 of those millions of employees are At this location (the HQ) who are the chosen 3?
And where, precisely is this location?
Capitol Hill?
Yes - but where on Capitol Hill?
In the Senate chamber?
The House of Representatives?
If there are only 3 people at the HQ, that HQ might be as small as some cloakroom. Curiouser and curiouser. Under State of Incorporation youll read Information not found. This could mean that this Government of the United States was never formally incorporated. Or it might mean that the information concerning that incorporation is intentionally concealed. However, we can see a clue to the possible date of incorporation for this Government of the United States under the heading Years in Business which reads 223. If the Government of the United States began 223 years ago, there should be a constitution or charter to mark its creation at that time. This is A.D. 2010, so 223 years ago would be A.D. 1787. But thats odd. Why? Because our current Government of the United States should have been created by The Constitution of the United States and therefore could not have existed prior to the ratification of the Constitution. In A.D. 1787, the Constitutional Convention completed the final draft of the Constitution on September 17th. That proposed Constitution for a new federal government was then submitted to the Congress that already existed under the Articles of Confederation (ratified in A.D. 1781). The Confederation Congress quickly approved the proposed Constitution under Article 13 of the Articles of Confederation and then sent it out to We the People for ratification. Article VII of the Constitution declares,
The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same.
I.e., the Constitution (and resulting federal government) could not become effective and operational until it was ratified by at least nine of the States of the Union. Thus, while the Constitution may have been approved by the existing Congress in A.D. 1787, it could not have been established and ordained by We the People until ratified by at least 9 States. But the 9th State (New Hampshire) didnt ratify until June 21st, A.D. 1788. Wikipedia article Unites States Constitution reports:
Once the Congress of the Confederation received word of New Hampshires ratification, it set a timetable for the start of operations under the new Constitution, and on March 4, 1789, the [new, federal] government began operations.
Since the Constitution created the federal Government and could not have been ratified by We the People before A.D. 1788 (when the 9th State ratified), D&Bs report that the Government of the United States began 223 years ago (A.D. 1787) cant be true.
The earliest that the Constitution couldve been deemed ratified and operations was A.D. 1788 - 222 years ago. Similarly, given that the new federal Government was not actually operational until A.D. 1789, the D&B report that this Government has been in business since A.D. 1787 also seems mistaken. Under this criteria, the earliest that the federal Government might become operational was A.D. 1789 - 221 years ago. Big deal, hmm?
Who cares? Arent I merely making a mountain out of data entry error mole hill? Didnt the D&B clerk responsible for the data entry simply write 223 when she meant 222 or even 221?
Who cares?
Arent I merely making a mountain out of data entry error mole hill?
Didnt the D&B clerk responsible for the data entry simply write 223 when she meant 222 or even 221?
I doubt it. If Im right, it is a big deal.
Heres why:
In A.D. 2008, I first learned about the Manta.com reports that suggest our government is some sort of conglomerate of companies and branches. When I first read the D&B Government of the United States report two years ago, Manta.com had a different website format. In that earlier format, Manta.com reported that Government of the United States started in 1787. (Today, they report 223 years in business.)In 2008, when I first saw 1787, I knew that either: the D&B data entry clerk made a mistake the current Government of the United States is somehow presumed to have started at least one year before the Constitution itself was ratified and two years before the resulting federal government became operational
In A.D. 2008, I first learned about the Manta.com reports that suggest our government is some sort of conglomerate of companies and branches. When I first read the D&B Government of the United States report two years ago, Manta.com had a different website format. In that earlier format, Manta.com reported that Government of the United States started in 1787. (Today, they report 223 years in business.)In 2008, when I first saw 1787, I knew that either:
the D&B data entry clerk made a mistake the current Government of the United States is somehow presumed to have started at least one year before the Constitution itself was ratified and two years before the resulting federal government became operational
the D&B data entry clerk made a mistake
the current Government of the United States is somehow presumed to have started at least one year before the Constitution itself was ratified and two years before the resulting federal government became operational
If so, whatever currently passes for our Government of the United States is not based on the authority of We the People, but on some other authority. Thus, this is a potentially big deal. I also knew that if the D&B clerk didnt make a data entry error, that the Manta.com website might be changed to eliminate evidence that todays Government of the United States is not be the same Government created by the Constitution ratified by People in A.D. 1788.
So, in A.D. 2009, I downloaded and retained complete copies of about 25 Manta.com website pages for safekeeping. As Id anticipated, the Manta.com website has since been modified and some information found two years ago has been changed or disappeared. For example, where Manta.com used to report that the Government began in 1787, it now reports that its been in business for 223 years. Thats not a big change.
Its still possible that the numbers 223 and 1787 simply reflect some persistent data entry calculation error.
But given the differences between 1787 and 223, the probability of a mere data entry error is reduced. It therefore seems increasingly possible that the current D&B report on Government of the United States may correctly declare that that Government started the year before the Constitution was ratified by the People. If so, as crazy as it sounds, it is therefore conceivable that there might be two editions of our Constitution:
one approved by the Confederation Congress in A.D. 1787 another, ratified by We the People in A.D. 1788
one approved by the Confederation Congress in A.D. 1787
another, ratified by We the People in A.D. 1788
The text of both of these editions of the Constitution would be identical, but the underlying authority would be completely different
Under the Constitution ratified by People in A.D. 1788, the enacting authority and national sovereigns would (consistent with the principles of the Declaration of Independence) be We the People.
As individual sovereigns, We the People would enjoy the republican form of government guaranteed at Article 4 Section 4 of the federal Constitution. However, under the possible Constitution approved by Congress in A.D. 1787, the enacting authority and national sovereigns would be the Congress. If Congress were the constitutional sovereign, our form of government would be an aristocracy of 535 men and women. Worse, under such aristocracy, you and I would be presumed to be subjects or even slaves.
If the Constitution approved by Congress in A.D. 1787 were in effect today (rather than the Constitution ratified by the People in A.D. 1788), you and I cant be free. Yes, this conjecture sounds like another howling conspiracy theory. But even so, since the Constitution wasnt ratified until A.D. 1788 and the resulting government didnt become operational until A.D. 1789, D&Bs report that the government began 223 years ago and/or began in 1787 cant be accurate. So, it seems at least odd that an entity as professional a D&B would make such a peculiar error. Its also curious that D&B describes the Government of the United States as a company and HQ over a number of other branches (like the Army, Navy, Air Force and courts) that are also deemed to be companies. Somethin funnys goin on here. If youre up for even more funny stuff, enter Nancy Pelosi into the Manta.com search engine.
Youll be taken to a list of 2 matching U.S. companies:
United States House of Representatives (Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi) BRANCH at her San Francisco address Representative Nancy Pelosi (Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi) BRANCH at her Washington DC address.
United States House of Representatives (Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi) BRANCH at her San Francisco address
Representative Nancy Pelosi (Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi) BRANCH at her Washington DC address.
Click the #1 link, look for the heading About United States House of Representatives, and youll read:
United States House Of Representatives is a private company categorized under Legislative Bodies, National and located in San Francisco, CA...
Whut th...?! The US House of Representative is a private company?! And its located in San Francisco, CA (the home of the Speaker of the House)? More? Look under the heading United States House of Representatives Business Information and youll read:
United States House Of Representatives also does business as Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi. The House of Representatives not only does business but does so as Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi? Is Nancy Pelosi something like a trademark, alter ego or registered agent for the private company we call the House of Representatives? Is she the CEO and/or D/B/A for the House of Representatives, Inc.?
United States House Of Representatives also does business as Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi.
The House of Representatives not only does business but does so as Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi?
Is Nancy Pelosi something like a trademark, alter ego or registered agent for the private company we call the House of Representatives?
Is she the CEO and/or D/B/A for the House of Representatives, Inc.?
Incidentally, the 2009 edition of Manta.coms report on Nancy Pelosi (that I recorded and saved) declared that the US House of Representatives was also traded as Nancy Pelosi.
Also traded as?! What does that mean? Are we talking about packages of bubble gum that include government trading cards featuring photos of the House of Representatives and Nancy Pelosi? Or is the House of Representatives and/or Nancy Pelosi some sort of stock? If so, whos buying, whos selling? Who owns that company?
Also traded as?!
What does that mean?
Are we talking about packages of bubble gum that include government trading cards featuring photos of the House of Representatives and Nancy Pelosi?
Or is the House of Representatives and/or Nancy Pelosi some sort of stock?
If so, whos buying, whos selling?
Who owns that company?
Enter US Social Security Admin into the search engine. Scroll down a bit and youll read:
US Social Security Admin is a private company categorized under Federal Government-Social and Human Resources and located in West Branch, MI.
So-So Security is a private company...? Thats not located in Washington DC, but rather in West Branch, MI...? I dont know what that means, but I cant help but laugh. Somethin funny is goin on here. Try Internal Revenue Service. Manta.com will produce 41,632 matching U.S. companies. Some of these are clearly private entities that have no governmental pretense, but many or most are governmental. If you click the link to,
Internal Revenue Service, Internal Revenue Dst Council, youll read Internal Revenue Service is a private company categorized under Federal Government-Finance and Taxation and located in Portland, OR.
Click the Internal Revenue Service, Andover Service Center... Andover MA link and youll read that,
Internal Revenue Service is a private company categorized under Federal Government-Finance and Taxation and located in Andover, MA.
Two different locations indicate two different private companies. These reports (and scores more) suggest that each individual IRS office may be a separate private company. Therefore, if youre contacted by an IRS office in Austin, Texas, you may be dealing with one private company. If youre subsequently contacted by another IRS office from, say, Provo, Utah - you might be dealing with a completely different private company.
Whats your obligation to talk to several different private companies about your income taxes? Are there privacy concerns in sharing your tax information with several private companies? And given that there are at least several score (and perhaps several thousand) private companies, operating as an Internal Revenue Service, who are you really paying your income taxes to?
Whats your obligation to talk to several different private companies about your income taxes?
Are there privacy concerns in sharing your tax information with several private companies?
And given that there are at least several score (and perhaps several thousand) private companies, operating as an Internal Revenue Service, who are you really paying your income taxes to?
H&R Block?
There are a host of additional private companies that you might want to research. I collected website pages for about two dozen in 2008 and 2009. Im not sure how many of those can still be found, but if you can find em and if you read closely, you may be fascinated. Search for: United States Court of Appeals, District of Columbia, George W Bush, and Supreme Court of the United States. All were listed by D&B as private companies.You may find other D&B reports that are similarly fascinating or bewildering. What does D&B have to say about the CIA or Homeland Security? Inquiring minds want to know. Whats it all mean? Im not sure. Perhaps D&B is merely guilty of gross negligence when it comes to entering data on governmental entities.Or, maybe the entire structure of what currently passes for government is actually a conglomerate of private companies run by an aristocratic Congress thats owned by... who? The Worlds Bankers?If so, the true nature of the Government of the United States might not be that of a republic or even a democracy, but rather a combination of governmental and corporate interests (private companies) thats usually described as fascism. If so, we no longer have government of the People, by the People and for the People but instead have government of the people, by the Congress, and for the Corporations.
There are a host of additional private companies that you might want to research. I collected website pages for about two dozen in 2008 and 2009. Im not sure how many of those can still be found, but if you can find em and if you read closely, you may be fascinated. Search for: United States Court of Appeals, District of Columbia, George W Bush, and Supreme Court of the United States. All were listed by D&B as private companies.You may find other D&B reports that are similarly fascinating or bewildering. What does D&B have to say about the CIA or Homeland Security? Inquiring minds want to know.
Whats it all mean? Im not sure. Perhaps D&B is merely guilty of gross negligence when it comes to entering data on governmental entities.Or, maybe the entire structure of what currently passes for government is actually a conglomerate of private companies run by an aristocratic Congress thats owned by... who? The Worlds Bankers?If so, the true nature of the Government of the United States might not be that of a republic or even a democracy, but rather a combination of governmental and corporate interests (private companies) thats usually described as fascism. If so, we no longer have government of the People, by the People and for the People but instead have government of the people, by the Congress, and for the Corporations.
Whatever the explanation, somethin funny is goin on here. Today, when it comes to government, an appearance of reality appears to have been substituted for reality. Our government is not what it appears to be; not what it professes to be - and thats not funny at all, is it? Written at arms length and at my political choice of venue within The United States of America.
Una Búsqueda Sobre El Gobierno de Los Estados Unidos por Alfred Adask 21 Agosto 2010 traducción Trinity a Tierra
del Sitio Web TrinityATierra
Versión Original
El sitio Web de Manta.com incluye una base de datos de 63 millones de empresas americanas y extranjeras.
Esa información en base de datos es ofrecida por Dun & Bradstreet (D&B). Manta.com ofrece información preliminar sobre cada una de estas millones de empresas de forma gratuita y si deseas información más detallada, entonces tienes que pagar una cantidad. Vamos a hacer una búsqueda divertida, a ver qué encontramos, simplemente con búsquedas libres de costo alguno. A lo mejor te llevas una sorpresa. Por ejemplo, si tecleas la frase Gobierno de los Estados Unidos (Government of the United States) en el motor de búsqueda de Manta.com, encontrarás que aparece una lista de 7666 empresas americanas que corresponden a esa búsqueda. La primera compañía en la lista es:
Government of the United States (US Government) HQ (Gobierno de los Estados Unidos) HQdonde HQ significa Head Quarters u oficinas centrales en the U.S. Capitol Washington DC
Si miras abajo en la lista de empresas, encontrarás filiales de tal empresa tales como Oficina Ejecutiva del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos (6 entradas),
Departamento de las Fuerzas Aéreas de Los Estados Unidos (Gobierno de USA) Departamento de la Marina de los Estados Unidos (Gobierno de USA, Reserva Naval Corte de Apelaciones de los Estados Unidos Para la 11ª Corte de Justicia de los Estados Unidos
Departamento de las Fuerzas Aéreas de Los Estados Unidos (Gobierno de USA)
Departamento de la Marina de los Estados Unidos (Gobierno de USA, Reserva Naval
Corte de Apelaciones de los Estados Unidos Para la 11ª Corte de Justicia de los Estados Unidos
Es decir, aparentemente, la Marina, Las Fuerzas Aéreas y los Juzgados son empresas. Esto es algo curioso, ¿no te parece? Si haces clic en el enlace de Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, Cuartel General , verás otra página con algo más de detalle, y puede que apabullante información. Por ejemplo, verás que este Gobierno de los Estados Unidos tiene su dirección en:
the U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515-0001. Su número de teléfono es (202) 224-3121. Jornada de Trabajo 24/7.
Si haces clic en el enlace del mapa verás un gráfico indicando que este gobierno está localizado en Capitol Hill (el mismo lugar que el Congreso en Washington DC. Nada de esto parece particularmente sorprendente (aparte de la idea de que nuestro gobierno pueda ser una empresa y/o un conglomerado de empresas).
Pero Manta.com ofrece aun más información y la cosa se vuelve extraña cuando lees:
gobierno, propietario arzobispo Deric R. Mccloud de la Basilica Michigan y 4 calle Washington DC
¡¡¿Cómo?!!
¿Significa este texto abreviado que el propietario del gobierno de los Estados Unidos es un arzobispo llamado Deric R. McCloud? ¿Quién puede ser tan idiota de pensar que el gobierno de los Estados Unidos pertenece a un arzobispo?
La respuesta es que aparentemente Dunn & Brudstreet (compañía de referencia a nivel mundial) es lo suficientemente idiota como para creer esto (ya que la información la ofrece esta empresa a manta.com) Y en el caso de que puedas pensar que no estamos hablando de EL Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , echa un ojo al encabezado de la información adicional y leerás:
todos los recipientes (sic) de fondos federales que tienen algún caso criminal o asunto pendiente con la justicia federal, local o han estado en la prisión federal no tendrán más beneficios a partir de 26 de Julio de 2010 de la administración de Barack Obama
La referencia a Barack Obama muestra que esta entrada de Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Cuartel General está directamente relacionada con el gobierno de los Estados Unidos que tanto amamos y admiramos. (No olvides que este gobierno y todas sus filiales están siendo reportadas por D&B como compañías privadas e individuales). Ok, Ok, puede que este artículo realmente no sea tan divertido, pero sigue siendo bastante rarito. Si vuelves a la parte de arriba donde dice Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y haces clic en Más info bajo Empleados Estimados leerás:
2,768,886En esta localización3
2.7 millones de empleados federales suena bastante bien.
Este enorme número de empleados confirma que estamos realmente leyendo la información sobre el gobierno de los Estados Unidos. Pero si sólo 3 de estos millones de empleados están en esta localización (Cuartel General) ¿quiénes son estos 3 elegidos?. Y ¿dónde, precisamente en esta localización? ¿En las colinas del Capitolio?, pero ¿dónde exactamente en Capitol Hill? ¿En la cámara del Senado? ¿En la Cámara de Representantes?
Si hay sólo 3 personas en el Cuartel General, ese cuartel general tiene que ser tan pequeño como una habitación. Cada vez más curioso e intrigante Bajo Estado de Formación puedes leer no se encuentra tal información. Esto podría significar que este gobierno de los Estados Unidos nunca fue realmente constituido. O puede significar que la información relativa a tal Constitución está censurada intencionadamente. Sin embargo, podemos tener una clave de la posible fecha de constitución de este Gobierno de los Estados Unidos bajo el encabezamiento de Años en el Negocio que dice 223″. Si el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos comenzó hace 223 años, debería haber una carta de constitución para marcar la fecha de su creación. 223 años implica que ese gobierno se constituyó en 1787 Pero eso es muy raro ¿Por qué? Porque nuestro gobierno de los Estados Unidos actual debería haber sido creado por La Constitución de los Estados Unidos y por lo tanto no podría haber existido antes de la ratificación de esta Constitución. En 1787, La Convención Constitucional completó el primer borrador de la Constitución el 17 de Septiembre.
Esa Constitución propuesta para un nuevo gobierno federal fue después sometida ante el Congreso, que ya existía bajo los artículos de la Confederación (ratificada en 1781). El Congreso de la Confederación rápidamente aprobó la Constitución propuesta bajo el Artículo 13 de los Artículos de la Confederación y luego la envió a Nosotros el Pueblo para la ratificación. El artículo VII de la Constitución declara La ratificación de las Convenciones de nueve Estados, debería ser suficiente para el Establecimiento de esta Constitución entre los Estados para ratificar Lo Mismo. Es decir, la Constitución (y el gobierno federal resultante de ella) no podría ser efectivo y operativo hasta que fuera ratificado por al menos nueve de los Estados de la Unión. Es decir, como la Constitución podía ser aprobada sólo por el Congreso existente en 1787, no podría haber sido establecida y ordenada por Nosotros el Pueblo hasta que fuera ratificada por al menos 9 estados. pero el noveno estado (New Hampshire) no lo ratificó hasta el 21 de Junio de 1788. Un artículo de la Wikipedia dice sobre la Constitución de los Estados Unidos:
Una vez que el Congreso de la Confederación recibió palabra de la ratificación de New Hampshire, estableció la agenda paralela a comienzos de las operaciones bajo la nueva Constitución el 4 de marzo de 1789 que es cuando comenzaron las operaciones del nuevo gobierno federal .
Dado que la Constitución creó el Gobierno federal y no pudo ser ratificada hasta 1788 por Nosotros el Pueblo, el informe de D&B de que el gobierno de los Estados Unidos comenzó hace 223 años (es decir, en 1787) no puede ser cierto.
Lo más temprano que la Constitución pudo haber sido ratificada fue en 1788, es decir, hace 222 años.
De forma similar, dado que el nuevo gobierno federal no funcionaba hasta 1789, el informe de D&B de que este gobierno ha estado en el negocio desde 1787 también parece un error. Bajo este criterio, lo más pronto que podría haberse establecido el gobierno federal fue en 1789 hace 221 años. Parece un asunto importante ¿no?
O puedes pensar ¡Bueno!, ¡qué importa!. Es posible que con tanta información y datos se haya colado este error. Simplemente cambiar 223 por 222 o 221, no parece muy grave. Lo dudo. Si estoy en lo cierto, es realmente un asunto muy importante. Esta es la razón. En 2008, comencé a leer los informes de manta.com que sugieren que nuestro gobierno es un tipo de conglomerado de empresas y filiales. Cuando leí por primera vez el capítulo de Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de D&B, hace dos años, manta.com tenía un formato diferente. En ese formato, manta.com reportaba que el gobierno de los Estados Unidos se inició en 1787″ (Ahora ellos reportan 223 años en el negocio). En 2008, cuando vi por primera vez 1787″ ya sabía que: 1) o bien era un error de D&B o 2) el actual Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de alguna manera anuncia que comenzó su andadura al menos un año antes que la propia Constitución fuera ratificada y dos años antes de que el gobierno federal resultante fuera operativo. Si esto es así, cualquier cosa que pase por nuestro Gobierno de los Estados Unidos no está basado en la autoridad de Nosotros El Pueblo, sino en otro tipo de Autoridad. Por eso, esto es potencialmente un asunto muy importante. También sabía que si D&B no cometió un error de datos, el manta.com podría haber sido cambiado para eliminar la evidencia de que el gobierno de los Estados Unidos actual, no es el mismo gobierno creado por la Constitución y ratificado por el Pueblo en 1788. De manera, que en 2009 bajé y guardé las copias completas de 25 páginas Web de manta.com para seguridad. Como he comentado, el Sitio de Manta.com ha sido modificado desde entonces y alguna información que aparecía entonces ya no está o ha desparecido. Por ejemplo, cuando Manta.com reportaba que el Gobierno comenzó en 1787, ahora reporta que ha estado en el negocio 223″ años. No es un cambio importante. Puede que los números 223 y 1787 reflejen un error de cálculo. Pero dadas las diferencias entre 1787 y 223, la probabilidad de que sea un simple error se reduce.
Parece más probable que el informe actual de D&B sobre el gobierno de los Estados Unidos correctamente declare que el gobierno comenzó a funcionar un año antes de que la Constitución fuera ratificada por el Pueblo. Si es así, tan loco como pueda sonar, se puede por lo tanto concebir que pueda haber dos ediciones diferentes de nuestra Constitución: 1) aprobada por el Congreso de la Confederación en 1787 y 2) otra ratificada por Nosotros el Pueblo en 1788. El texto de ambas ediciones de la Constitución sería idéntico, pero la autoridad implicada sería completamente diferente. Bajo la Constitución ratificada por el Pueblo en 1788, la autoridad en acción y la soberanía nacional reside en el Nosotros, el Pueblo. Como soberanos individuos, Nosotros El Pueblo disfrutaríamos de la forma republicana de gobierno garantizada en la sección 4 del artículo 4 de la Constitución Federal. Sin embargo, bajo la posible Constitución aprobada por el Congreso en 1787, la autoridad representada y la soberanía estaría en el Congreso.
Si el Congreso fuera el soberano constitucional, nuestra forma de gobierno sería una aristocracia de 535 hombres y mujeres. Peor aún. Bajo tal aristocracia, tú y yo seríamos considerados sujetos e incluso esclavos. Si la Constitución aprobada por el Congreso en 1787 estuviera en efecto hoy (en lugar de la Constitución ratificada por El Pueblo en 1788) tú y yo no podemos ser libres ciudadanos. Sí; imagino que esto suena como otra teoría de la conspiración más. Pero incluso si es así, dado que la Constitución no fue ratificada hasta 1788 y el gobierno resultante no fue operativo hasta 1789, el informe de D&B de que el gobierno se inició hace 223 años, no puede ser exacto. De manera que al menos parece raro que una entidad tan profesional como D&B cometa este tipo de errores tan peculiares. También es curioso que D&B describe a el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos como una empresa y con sede general, además de otras filiales como la Armada, La Marina y los Juzgados) que también aparecen como empresas Realmente algo muy extraño sucede aquí. Si aun te quedan ganas de buscar más cosillas curiosas en el Manta.com escribe Nancy Pelosi en el buscador. Verás que aparecen como resultado dos empresas de Estados Unidos:
Filial de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos (Congresista Nancy Pelosi) en su dirección de San Francisco Filial Representante Nancy Pelosi (Congresista Nancy Pelosi) en su dirección de Washington DC.
Filial de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos (Congresista Nancy Pelosi) en su dirección de San Francisco
Filial Representante Nancy Pelosi (Congresista Nancy Pelosi) en su dirección de Washington DC.
Si haces clic en el primer enlace, que dice Acerca de la Cámara de Representantes de Los Estados Unidos leerás:
Estados Unidos Cámara de Representantes es una empresa privada categorizada bajo Cuerpos Legislativos, Nacionales y Locales en San Francisco, CA
¿Qué?
¿La Cámara de Representantes de US es una empresa privada? ¿Y está localizada en San Francisco, CA (la casa del Portavoz de la Cámara que es Nancy Pelosi)? ¿Quieres más?
¿La Cámara de Representantes de US es una empresa privada?
¿Y está localizada en San Francisco, CA (la casa del Portavoz de la Cámara que es Nancy Pelosi)?
¿Quieres más?
Busca en el encabezado Información de Negocio de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos y tienes:
La Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos también hace negocio como Congresista Nancy Pelosi
¿O sea que La Cámara de Representantes no sólo hace negocio, sino que lo hace también como Congresista Nancy Pelosi?
Es Nancy Pelosi algo así como una marca comercial, un agente de negocio registrado o algo así para una compañía privada que nosotros llamamos Cámara de Representantes? ¿Es ella el CEO para la Cámara de Representantes Inc?
La edición 2009 de Manta.com sobre Nancy Pelosi (que yo guardé y salvé) declaraba que la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos también comerciaba (hacía negocio) como Nancy Pelosi.
¿Qué significa todo esto? ¿Estamos hablando de paquetes de chicles que incluyen al gobierno con fotos de la Cámara de Representantes y Nancy Pelosi? ¿Son la Cámara y/o Nancy Pelosi algún tipo de acción en bolsa?
¿Qué significa todo esto?
¿Estamos hablando de paquetes de chicles que incluyen al gobierno con fotos de la Cámara de Representantes y Nancy Pelosi?
¿Son la Cámara y/o Nancy Pelosi algún tipo de acción en bolsa?
Si es así,
¿Quién las está comprando y quién las está vendiendo? ¿Quién posee la compañía?
¿Quién las está comprando y quién las está vendiendo?
¿Quién posee la compañía?
Introduce ahora Administración de la Seguridad Social de US en el buscador.
Lee lo que aparece:
La Seguridad Social de US es una empresa privada categorizada bajo Gobierno Federal de Recursos Humanos y Sociales y está localizada en West Branch, MI
¿La Seguridad Social es una empresa privada?
Además no está localizada en Washington DC, sino más concretamente en West Branch, MI. No sé qué significa esto, pero no puedo evitar reírme. Algo muy extraño está pasando aquí. Busca ahora Servicio Fiscal Interno . (Secretaría de Hacienda). Manta.com te dará 41.632 resultados de empresas americanas. Algunas de estas son entidades privadas sin pretensiones de ser otra cosa, pero la mayor parte parecen entidades gubernamentales. Si haces clic en el enlace de Internal revenue Service verás,
La Secretaría de Hacienda es una empresa privada categorizada bajo el capítulo de Finanzas Federales del Gobierno y Tasación y está localizada en Portland, Oregón
Si haces click en Secretaría de Hacienda, Centro de Servicio de Andover verás que dice
La Secretaría de Hacienda es una empresa privada categorizada bajo el capítulo de Finanzas Federales del Gobierno y Tasación y está localizada en Andover, MA
Dos diferentes localizaciones indican dos empresas privadas diferentes. Todos estos informes (y muchos más) sugieren que cada oficina del IRS (Secretaría de Hacienda) puede ser una empresa privada separada. Por lo tanto si eres contactado por una oficina de Hacienda en Texas, Austin, puede que tengas trato con una empresa privada diferente. ¿Cuál es tu obligación de hablar con empresas privadas acerca de impuestos sobre tu renta?. ¿Hay alguna preocupación sobre tu privacidad para compartir tu información fiscal con distintas empresas privadas? Y dado que hay al menos varias (y probablemente miles) de empresas privadas, operando como Secretarías de Hacienda ¿a quién realmente le estás pagando tus impuestos?. Hay un grupo de empresas privadas adicionales que puedes tener interés de investigar.
Busca por ejemplo,
Corte de Apelaciones de los Estados Unidos Distrito de Columbia George W Bush Corte Suprema de los Estados Unidos
Corte de Apelaciones de los Estados Unidos
Distrito de Columbia
George W Bush
Corte Suprema de los Estados Unidos
Todas ellas están citadas por D&B como empresas privadas Puedes encontrar otros informes de D&B que son igualmente fascinantes.
¿Qué dice D&B sobre la CIA o sobre el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional? ¿Qué significa todo esto?
¿Qué dice D&B sobre la CIA o sobre el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional?
No estoy seguro. Quizás D&B es simplemente culpable de una enorme negligencia cuando se trata de introducir datos de entidades gubernamentales.
O puede que la estructura completa de que lo que es actualmente considerado Gobierno sea un conglomerado de empresas privadas dirigidas por un Congreso Aristocrático que es propiedad de ¿los Banqueros Mundiales?
Si es así, la verdadera naturaleza de El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos puede que no sea la de república o incluso de democracia, sino de una combinación de intereses gubernamentales y corporativos (empresas privadas) que normalmente se describe como fascismo. Si es así, ya no somos más el gobierno del Pueblo, para el Pueblo y por el Pueblo, sino un gobierno de la gente, por el Congreso y para las Corporaciones.
Si es así, la verdadera naturaleza de El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos puede que no sea la de república o incluso de democracia, sino de una combinación de intereses gubernamentales y corporativos (empresas privadas) que normalmente se describe como fascismo.
Si es así, ya no somos más el gobierno del Pueblo, para el Pueblo y por el Pueblo, sino un gobierno de la gente, por el Congreso y para las Corporaciones.
Cualquiera que sea la explicación, algo extraño está sucediendo aquí. Hoy en día, lo que se refiere al gobierno, ha sido suplantado por una apariencia de realidad.
Nuestro gobierno no es lo que parece ser; y eso ya no es tan divertido.
Return to The Bushes and The New World Order
Return to Obama - A "New" Sociopolitical Era?
Return to Big Brother Loves You...
