# Soul Matters

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/planetchoise/opc20.htm

20
Soul Matters
Once, when Phyllis was in deep trance, she was taken before the Nine. At first they had manifested as venerable old men but when she asked them to show her what they were really like, they turned into "Balls of light that were like, pure energy, but with a soul".
"Perhaps that's what a soul looks like", Andrew said when he heard of this, "perhaps that's what they are, all soul and no body". Phyllis then explained what they had shown her: "They took ... like the negative and positive forces or energy and they showed .... Now, if you're so positive and you spin.... they showed me this energy spinning and it keeps spinning so fast it gets light and it disappears.... And the negative also spins, but with its spinning it picks up other stuff and it gets dark. It's an energy that gets dark and then it falls. And they showed me that neither one of those was good, because the way they were going, that soul was out of line".
"Or balance", Andrew had suggested.
"Out of balance, right". Phyllis agreed.
"Hmm, " Andrew said, "that's interesting. " And he tried to make scientific sense of Phyllis' imagery - in terms of spinning leading to increased velocity and eventually to disappearance into another dimension.
Once Tom was answering a question on reincarnation when he said: "A reason that you do not remember your preceding times is because of the atmosphere of the planet. "
The following exchanges concern matters of the chakras, birth and death, reincarnation and healing and all in relation to the soul, with which we start:
ANDREW: We do not understand the way in which you use the words 'soul' and 'spirit. I wonder if you could clarify the distinction?
Tom: There are actually three.
ANDREW: Is that what you call mind, soul and spirit?
Tom: Yes. And when you blend them completely, then you are pure energy, which is pure soul.
ANDREW: I see. Now what is spirit as differentiated from the other two?
Tom: Spirit is the soul that manifests both in your physical world, and in the atmosphere of your physical world.
ANDREW. In other words .....
Tom: .... it is a vehicle.
ANDREW: Does that have any relationship to an 'astral body' or the 'etheric body'?
Tom: Yes. It is the astral.
ANDREW: Right. . . . now, 'mind' - is that part connected with the brain, or is that part connected with the spirit, or with the soul?
Tom: The mind is connected with the soul.
ANDREW: I see, from previous discussions we understood that the etheric body seems to be....
Tom: It is the soul-cover.
ANDREW: The soul-cover, right So these are distinct functions of the human personality: the mind related to the soul, the spirit related to the body, and the soul of course is independent, if it is not in the body.
Tom: Yes.
ANDREW: But if it is connected with the body, it is connected to the 'etheric body' ?
Tom: Right.
JOHN: Could you go a little further on the relationship between mind and soul?
Tom: Mind is the intelligence of the soul.
ANDREW: This sounds like a stupid question, but I have no idea what the etheric body looks like. Is it something that is wrapped around our physical body or is it alongside our physical body?
Tom: There are two bodies - the astral body and the etheric body and including the one you see, which is physical, there are actually three bodies. The etheric stands outside the astral and is similar to an envelope, but that is not a correct term. I will explain in another manner: If you had an egg, inside that egg would be a chick, which would be a physical thing. Then around that chick would be a membrane which adheres to that chick. That would be the astral. The shell would be the etheric.
ANDREW: Very good, so they are envelopes. Thank you very much, that helps enormously.
Tom: We would like to explain something to you in relationship to the life-energy that must be funnelled upward. There are not, as you understand it, seven chakras. This is not true. There are truly nine chakras. When these chakras and the root chakra is opened this creates the furnace fire, when you generate this upward, there are those who think they are sending it up and out and it is going into the ether, and then they do not understand why they have cravings and desires. What is actually happening, the energy is being trapped in their astral body and then it is flowing downward all over their body, and this again creates more of a furnace. It is necessary to get this energy up into the ninth chakra and project it out through the etheric body.
ANDREW: May I just ask, the location of that ninth chakra?
Tom: It would be at the top of your head - it is where... what you call your 'Silver Cord'... but that is not where the Silver Cord is truly located.
RON: On this subject, I have some rather esoteric questions. What I'd like to do is to read a portion of something that came through my head and ask if it is correct, and then ask further questions - is that all right?
Tom: Yes.
RON: In the beginning (it's kind of a Genesis) the One breathed breathless by itself and turning inward upon itself the tension was one and became the manifold all. Varying densities and intensities of matter and spirit, with the potential to become one union. The Nine, the Civilizations, humanity and the Other kingdoms are each part of all that is. The infinite creation in its totality is the One infinite Being. The One Being which is aware of itself to the extent that its different aspects are aware of themselves as part of all that is.
The Nine is the crown chakra, where God's will is known. The hierarchy of the civilizations is the heart chakra, where God's love wisdom is expressed. Humanity is the throat chakra. What the whole is - is unknown, it is the mystery. As the head, heart and throat chakras open completely to be their becoming for God, so it is a process of becoming aware of Itself.
Tom: At this stage of your knowledge we cannot explain to you the true understanding of the Universe. What you have received comes not from us but from the civilizations who also do not have full understanding. It is in portion of truth but it is not complete and it would be very difficult to give you an explanation. For knowledge can be conveyed in words but wisdom sounds foolish and it is not able to be conveyed in such a way. But it is acceptable to us that you convey these thoughts to those to whom you speak.
RON: Yes, thank you. What I would like to know, is the significance of the throat chakra in terms of the great Solar One-Being, in terms of humanity and in terms of the individual human being.
Tom: That deals with your physicalness. I will have a consultation... Council have asked that I convey this to you: In the need to have tangible structures that they can relate to, human beings in extending their understanding have used the term 'Chakra' but it is really a matter of different levels of the soul. Do you understand?
RON: The different chakras that are opening, are different levels of soul ... ?
Tom: Yes.
RON: Manifesting through us?
Tom: How can we explain? We are not of the crown chakra. When a soul is born it is in the first chakra. From that moment onwards it strives to reach that that is of us - do you understand?
RON: Yes.
Tom: In each of its reincarnations in different civilisations and also upon Earth, it goes through a process. There are those that may remain in the first chakra for many incarnations and there are those that, in their understanding that power for self accomplishes nothing, may generate and go into the third chakra, bypassing the second chakra. All are striving to return to us as fast as possible.
Individual humanity is not of the throat chakra. It is only when all of humanity has understanding that together it can become of the fourth chakra - Council have said that you spoke of the throat chakra. I am sorry, but it is of the fourth [the heart chakral and then humanity may evolve in mass. Do you understand what we are attempting to explain?
RON: Yes, I think so.
Tom: Also, understand that a soul could be in what you would call the first chakra and if it has only the glory of the Universe in its life, in its motivation, then it may come immediately to us.
Since you must have something that you can relate to in order for you to have understanding in your world, let me just say that there are not pigeon holes, therefore please do not attempt to pigeonhole. You have an essence of truth. It has limitations but it will be of service, yes.
JOHN: There was another question we were talking about. That is about humour. We have humour in our world: I'm wondering if in your reality you have humour yourselves?
Tom: God could not have survived without being able to laugh at himself!
ANDREW: When God laughs what happens in the Universe? Is everything shaken... ?
Tom: Everything shines!
ANDREW: Shines! I see. Now, to which function is humour related, to the mind, soul or spirit?
Tom: It is related to the mind. Which then in turn feeds energy to the soul.
JOHN: Most of our humour is based on our physical existence and the funniness of its situations.
Tom: We have cosmic humour. The Universe is funny!
ISRAEL: I would like to know the difference, if there is one, between ego and pride.
Tom: It is ego that creates pride, and it is pride that makes ego. In the Universe, there is no difference, but upon Earth they create a difference. We will attempt to explain: if you do not ask for help, it is your pride and your independence that keep you from asking, is this not so? It is also your ego, saying "I am independent and I need no one" - is that not so? It is one and the same. It is necessary to have ego for existence, but remember that there is the negative ego, as there is the positive ego. And ego must be in a balanced state. It is pride that takes the ego out of balance. It is necessary to have ego, it is of spirit. It is when the ego becomes a pride-filled thing that it becomes a problem. And if the ego becomes limp and like a dishrag, and permits itself to be stamped into the ground, then that is not good either.
PETER: I have been working on the split between what I would call body, mind, heart and soul and it would appear that an enormous number of people allow the conscious mind to overrule the heart continuously. This seems invariably to lead to a path away from consciousness.
Tom: You have come upon a truth and an awakening. You see, when science became strong then it eliminated and ruled out the true self of humankind, its intuitive self, its self of love and heart. It is time for the returning to that, for science placed humankind in holes of pigeons, categorised them, labelled them, and put them in a situation such that all people began to think of them in that way. Those scientific beliefs then led to a pattern of mass thinking.
PETER: What I have observed is that if people make choices, often it is the mind that tends to make the choice rather than the intuition or soul. Thus one comes into life for a purpose, but the mind overrules the purpose of the soul.
Tom: Because science and humankind conditioned themselves to fear to appear foolish, science made the decision that belief in universal love, consciousness and the Creator - for the truth is you are the Creator - was not realistic. Thus they lost touch with reality and humanity was then conditioned to permit its mind to rule it.
PETER: The continual question for me is, that given these two points, is it possible to offer the opportunity of consciousness to people who don't wish, in their heads, to seek it? Or is it possible only with those who are willing to take a step towards consciousness by becoming more spiritually aligned?
Tom: There are those who do not comprehend, neither wish to know: do not waste your time.
JOHN: With regards to reincarnation, it's sometimes said that we have an overly simplistic concept of a soul entering a new body on a number of occasions, and it seems to be rather more complex than that. I wonder if you could possibly describe the point at which the separation takes place? What reincarnates and what does not, in terms of the relationship between the personality and the soul?
Tom: That is a great elaborate dissertation, it is very difficult to explain in human terms because of your egos. However we will give you a small sample. As an example: your son is now begot from you. Therefore a portion that is you is within him. Therefore if your son had been begotten from you many times, in different lives, then there would be a stronger proportion of you within him - then perhaps next time it would be as if both of you were the same person. Do you understand?
JOHN: Yes. So a little piece of each incarnation goes along, so there are complex patterns. . .
Tom: It is as atoms grow with atoms. It is not that this soul is encapsulated, and then it floats away on its own and encapsulates itself in another physical entity.
JOHN: Is it possible then that if one takes someone like Napoleon from history, two or three people might think they are a reincamation of Napoleon, because they each have a piece of that?
Tom: That is correct. But there is also a symptom upon Earth which arises when there is not good health in the mind: they may tune into that consciousness and believe they are of it. There is a fine line, as you say.
JOHN: Is it also true to say that there's probably one person who carries more of that than any of the others?
Tom: That is correct. Yes.
JOHN: Okay, that helps very much.
Tom: Who of humankind would want to understand that? For the ego of humankind resents the fact that somebody could be a portion of them.
JOHN: It seems that the concept of reincarnation would be very important for people to understand, in order to grasp their full responsibility; but religion, or at least the Christian tradition, resists that. How can that be broken down?
Tom: That is one of the processes that will be of great importance to develop in the future. It is important to prepare this information for those who wish for it.
MIKI: How important is it to understand our past lives in order to go forward?
Tom: For some, it is of great importance, for others it is not that important, for it is as if they had the internal knowing and they step in another direction. But for some, knowing their historical background then gives an insight into the personality of this life.
GUEST: Why do humans forget their previous lives when they incarnate on Earth? If they remembered it would be much easier for them to see the light to improve themselves.
Tom: In the beginning there was rememberance then it became necessary to structure society for the progression of what you would call 'civilised behaviour'. In those societies that have not entrapped themselves in intellectualism without sensitivity, their peoples have awareness of other realms of existence. These societies are largely dismissed by those in the arenas of the world in which there are the main technological, scientific and intellectual advances, and when children of these 'civilised' societies were born with memory (which was often) it was not considered acceptable and therefore it was suppressed. Now, however (1991), there are many in your world, in those 'civilised' societies, that have come with rememberance, We ask of you and all upon Earth, permit your youth to remember their past, to understand that there is continuity of life, that there is not death of the spirit or soul, that what passes into a form is only that of the physical and that all soul, all spirit, all that each of you are, contained within thyself - all the essence of the Creator contained within you - continues in continuity.
The time has now come to this planet when there is more and more rememberance. In the past, some religions had not benefited humankind, for they also suppressed that internal knowledge of other worlds. It served its purpose for a period of time, but now it is time to let the true essence of humankind come to the fore. Yes.
GUEST: Is it true that every soul in the Universe needs to live on Earth at least once?
Tom: What is of great importance for humankind to know, is that in all the Universe, Earth is the only planet of free will and choice. This does not mean that other worlds of existence, on other planets of physicalness, there is always a control. What it means is that on other planes of existence one may choose a physical expression in a collective consciousness in agreement. All souls in the Universe must experience this planet Earth at least once in order to learn of this balance between the physical and non-physical - what you would term the spiritual. Planet Earth is for that purpose, therefore the importance of bringing yourself into balance on Earth is vital. When souls are born into this planet and begin to experience such things as the ingestion of your foods, those of your liquids that control the mind or those drugs that also affect them, then humankind forgets the essence of who it is and begins to believe that it is the only reality.
That is because, in the past, humankind was attempting to elevate and come to an understanding of itself and then it entrapped itself and recycled over and over again, instead of going to other places of existence for further experiences. This became your reality but it is not the true reality. However, because souls recognize that this planet is of Paradise, in their confusion they entrapped themselves. Not that planet earth entrapped them, they entrapped themselves, and this recycling bottlenecked the Universe. A soul chooses where it will be. When they do not go beyond the earth boundness of this planet, they choose to recycle here. That does not mean that if a soul has made an error, in the past or in another civilization, that they may not choose to come here, for often they do. However, know that there are others in the Universe that also tempt, and attempt to control souls and create a corruptive state. Then, that soul, when it is in its state of purity can identify that problem and chooses to visit planet Earth or another planet, in order to overcome that corruption. Yes.
Now follows a discussion on birth and death,
GUEST: May I ask about transitioning into and out of physical life? One thing that concerns a lot of conscious people at present is the quality of birth and the birth experience, for souls transitioning into the body. Do you have any advice for people who wish to give a good birth-transition to children coming into the world now?
Tom: You know that in past days there was not this great difficulty that exists now? In days past, what was created in sound-waves was not discordant. People did not have mechanical sound-patterns and waves, did not have electronic fields of energy, and birth was accepted as natural. What happens in these times is that people who want to give life to a developing spirit in a peaceful way unintentionally create confusion for a child, for they speak to it in gentleness and lovingness, and then they proceed outside, where there is a very noisy environment. Therefore this new-born spirit is not even knowing what kind of world it is come into.
Therefore that must be explained. For can you imagine yourself in a warm cave, and then suddenly you feel the vibration of a volcanic explosion: you would not know if you could survive this warm cave, would you? Then you receive assurance from the mother, and then that assurance is taken away, so it causes great confusion. What needs to be arranged is this: if one who is in gestation could be in a calm environment for this birthing soul, with soft music, lighting, educational input. You know that you may read an encyclopaedia to one that is waiting for birthing? As that is assimilated also is this noise assimilated, discordantly. So when you are in that swing from calm to disruptive, would you not be jarred also? You see, if one spirit chooses to come back and it really should not, and it is forcefully returning, and then is creating more discordancy, and the nutrients feeding to it are discordant also, then can you see why it then discordances the Planet? Now if that one came back wilfully and had opportunity to have serenity, it then has a chance to perform in its human role in the method that it should.
GUEST: There are a number of people who now understand this, but it has yet to develop in a larger way throughout the world.
Tom: What must be done is the creating of arenas of safety that a female enters for that time.
GUEST: Around the time of birth, or during the whole of pregnancy?
Tom: Through gestation, from half-through.
ALEX: I believe that this is one of the few planets where we are able to sexually reproduce in the physical being. How would the experience of having a family, or the experience of a family unit, aid us in our spiritual evolution on this planet?
Tom: You are correct in that it is the only planet, not one of few, where that of the sexuality for reproduction is the method that is in sexuality, and in that, you see, humankind searches continuously this we have explained before. Therefore we will attempt to answer the second part of the question. It is bringing forth, and it is not always a necessity for humans to have a family - that is the first premise that must be understood. When a soul chooses to come forth to benefit Planet Earth, then it is important that it chooses those elements necessary for its development into its divinity-potential. In times past there were souls that forced conditions in two humans, in order for their reproduction to come into being, for they wilfully wished for the elements of either or both humans.
This has been so in times past, and is now in change, because no souls will recycle that should not [1991]. We are now moving into a planetary state upon Earth wherein that method no longer applies, so in your future, not immediate but soon, a soul will then choose to come forth with the agreement of the male-female vehicles. Therefore the importance of that family is to bring forth a soul, for it to nurture them and for them to nurture it, for it and you to attain evolutionary growth, the removal of barriers, and to peel away the density of Planet Earth, and prepare for its blooming.
JOHN: The concept 'there is no death': we hold some beliefs about reincarnation, but I sense that it is a little more complex than a simplistic view which many hold.
Tom: Those upon this planet can understand that in the times of their coming they chose to come to Planet Earth. If they are in a state of despair, the elements of the Universe can be explained to them.
For Planet Earth brings about the desire for the individual to be an individual, and what is frightening for people is that when they begin to believe that if they relieve and purify and evolve, they merge with the Source and are no longer an individual. Therefore there is the rejection of reincarnation and the continuity of life. In truth, those who exist upon Earth are from the gods. There are those who have forgotten this completely in differing degrees - particularly in the civilised world, as you term it.
We know not how to explain, to you and your humankind, the energies that exist and merge with the Source and still be of one individual. It is quite complicated.
GUEST: The ending of individuality and the end of free will for many people on the Earth would be as bad as dying. It would be very difficult to get over the concept of merging into a universal consciousness because that is felt to be like dying.
Tom: Exactness. Therefore what must be understood is that the individual identity of the personality does not die. That is what we mean when we say "Humankind upon this Planet are from gods". We mean from the civilisations or the sub-civilisations. Do you understand that? Somehow the means must be found in your world, to convey this concept: that death does not bring about individual destruction.
GUEST: Is free will ego then?
Tom: When we say 'free will' we will speak now of the physical planets. For example: if you choose to go to another planet, you know in the going that you have given up your individual free will, to become part of a collective free will. Only on Planet Earth is each individual totally one of free will. You asked, "is free will ego?" Perhaps you could say it is. But it is more than that, it is choice...
GUEST: May I ask whether you can give advice to people moving close to the end of their physical life, about any ways they can meditatively prepare themselves for the transition?
Tom: There is only one way, and that is the acceptance that it is only physical demise which takes place. The soul, spirit, mind, and emotion energy continue to exist. If they understood this when they make the transition from physical to spirit, they would not be in shock-state and sleep-state at the transition.
GUEST: A lot of people in our world anticipate that nothing will happen to them after they have made their transition, but we have a great lack of understanding of what a soul may expect or visualise after they have made the transition...
Tom: There is much written about that from spirit sources, you are in error in your thinking, for in your world, for example ... all Hoovids understand life after and life again, all Indians also, all of Shinto also, all Islam also. It is only in your misinterpretation of the Nazarene, of the sleep-state and then the rising of only the good people that creates lack of understanding.
Now those who have followed the Nazarene are becoming more enlightened concerning that. For the non-God believers (atheists) it is their sadness, as they will not know they have passed on and they will be confused, for they were not prepared, as most Nazarene followers are not prepared. For when you pass you are who you are. You do not become enlightened through passing.
GUEST: I was asking this question for these kinds of people, who get lost, when they cross over..
Tom: Then I would say to them: when you have passed on and you are confused and do not know what has happened, then recognise that you have passed on and you are alive!
JOHN: I'm concerned that the Church seems to be taking such a counter-productive position....
Tom: You know there are people demanding. Is not this the time for people to demand from their religious leaders? And those religious leaders who do not evolve, then this will be the end of their religious movement, for people will take possession of their lives.
JOHN: So is it true to say that all the major Earth religions have some belief in the continuity of life after death, so this could be the one common theme between all religions?
Tom: That is correct, yes. There is this knowing in humankind. The religious, those who head religion, utilise that knowing for controlling the masses.
The next questions were asked by a scientist, interested in the subtler aspects of healing...
IAN: I want to ask about the energies that are working on the DNA, when a healer is healing someone. It is known by science that only 5% of the DNA within each cell is used to build a physical body. So about the other 95% we don't know anything. I think the other 95% has a certain specific function, in relationship to energies and in relationship to healing, the low frequency fields and the magnetic fields. Is that true, or am I off-course on that?
Tom: That is absolutely correct. Know also that the ability to heal is within all, but it is more available to some than to others because of the mechanism of their understanding. A portion of the DNA is used for collective consciousness, streams of energies, and if it is not understood someone may believe they are someone they are not. If it is not refined within them they may believe they are Napoleon.
IAN: So it is something like the genetic memory of the mind?
Tom: Yes, and if they were in that time-period or had some brief connection with it, if it is not completely understood, they may believe that they are of it, for it has not been defined correctly within.
IAN: So it seems, that in these 95%, that in each cell, there is physical manifestation in the DNA of all the past lives, experiences, of the cosmic knowledge, the cosmic connection?
Tom: Yes. Of the archetypes also, and how they began to manifest from that.
ANDREW: When healers are working in threes with you, that is three healers and the patient, what is the nature of that healing process? What is it that flows from the healers, and what is it that is triggered? [In this instance Andrew was referring to a situation of two male and one female healer] An enzyme or some system in the human being who is worked on?
Tom: What in truth transpires is, that in the case of healers connected with us, the energy comes from the civilizations Ancore and Aragon. It is similar to your laser beam: there is not in your world or language the nature of what we have.
ANDREW: But it is some kind of a coherent beam, I take it?
Tom: It is a beam that then goes through the male healers, and then penetrates through the female healer and then in turn purifies the body of, what you call the patient.
ANDREW: Yes, right.
Tom: However, when the healing is between two (the patient and the healer) the polarities being male and female, and when the two are placed close to each other, their two etheric bodies blend and in this blending are refined and the refinement then creates a funnel or a focus for us to generate through. It is also possible for healers to work as pairs, two male and two female that would work as a team, particularly when working on severe cases. All energy then would be funneled through all four beings in order to reverse a deteriorating process in a being that is ill.
ANDREW: Well, that's very good. Now is any specific enzyme system triggered, or is the oxygen worked on, or the red blood cells... ?
Tom: It is the entire etheric body which is brought back into balance.
ANDREW: I see, the action is etheric, which in turn of course acts upon the biochemical mass, I see.
Tom: It removes from the etheric. It is like a laser beam that removes poisons. It is a giant filter that purifies and removes impurities. It is as if you took the patient and turn them completely inside out, and then scan them, and remove from them all the poisons, all of what you would call a tumour, all the things which do not belong in the physical body, and then you would right side it up. It would be as if you had a doll that had within it a very fine silk cotton filling, that then in turn a bug had crawled into, and the bug then made a nest, and then you would take it and would cut it open and turn it inside out, and purify it and sew it back, and then the bug would be removed. It is of the same nature.
DAVID: To what extent is sickness caused by either emotional stress, karma, wear and tear or learning experiences with other people in relation to these causes?
Tom: What we see upon Planet Earth in this time is the creation of a new belief, we call it the religion New Age, which is a belief that one brings forth from the past an element into this life. It is also said that one has chosen in order to teach others.
Know this: that most of the illnesses upon this planet are brought about by the peoples of Earth in their error of thinking, their foods, their pollution of lands and waters, by contamination from ingestation, by those who make business at the expense of humankind. There is a portion created by stress of emotion, there is another portion created by stress involved in pleasing others, we speak now of youth. There is also a portion created by conditioning in the brain during the time of youth, but the greatest portion is created out of Planet Earth, I will explain: humankind was meant to be born to live a full, fruitful, healthy, non-diseased life, and in the passing of the physical body, not to have aging or suffering as now exist, but to pass on quietly in sleep, after a good portion of a hundred years. It is always in the last years that knowledge and wisdom are brought together. But humankind has lost that for many reasons: those that we have spoken of, and also it has become a collective thought that all must be ill and aging. It is difficult to override that. Yes.
DAVID: When, for example, a body has created calcification because of a bone spur, is it possible to alter matter just from thought?
Tom: Yes. It is possible through proper nutritionals, through supplements of vitamin, through your elevation of thought and dissolving of this calcium, and also with healings. It is possible. It is best in the process of removing it not to have the ingestation of animal for a portion of time. For the body will begin to consume the calcium then, yes.
IAN: You said in the past that errors in thinking cause diseases within the human being. So I wondered what the relationship is of these energies, what the process is, from thought-process to physical manifestation. Because I guess there is a relationship also with magnetic energies and low frequency energies, and also with the etheric energies. So how does this all fit together?
Tom: In the beginning there was purity and purity of thought. When you do a major thing that is against self or Universe or the Creator, the internal knowledge of the cell begins to react. You call this guilt in your world, but we know it as a form of opposition destruction. Altea and Aragon have said to tell you that all of it comes from a base of fear. Therefore it penetrates into the etheric and it tarnishes, so the magnetic field is dimmed, and it then can then be penetrated or contaminated - and what you call Scalar F, ELF...
IAN: Yes, extra low frequency waves.
Tom: ... these pick up energies, and they can then penetrate and contaminate the etheric. If you place upon your body a crystal consciousness with crystalline structure then ELF cannot contaminate. What takes place with contamination and the dimming of the magnetic, and the penetration of the etheric, is a wild cell. And it then bores a nest within and begins to drain life energy force.
IAN: Yes, so this is like the beginning of a cancer, in our words?
Tom: Yes, also cancer can be brought about in error of thinking by mass humankind, which is connected with contamination of environment.
IAN: You mean, if the mass of humanity is thinking in error, it reflects in the environment?
Tom: Yes. If environmental contamination is brought about by visual contamination, this also then penetrates the etheric. So it may be this: you may not be in error of thinking, but the etheric is bombarded and penetrated - from the collective. Then contamination can come into being. That all comes from error in thinking because humankind thinks that they can do as they wish with Planet Earth. By creating destructive devices. Humankind was not created for suffering, humankind was not created for disease, humankind was not created for destruction. Humankind was created for the joy and glory of the Creator, who in truth is humankind. Do you understand that you created us?
IAN: Yes, in a very abstract sense, we can understand it.
Tom: You also understand that you created the Creator?
IAN: Yes.
Tom: Therefore you are the Creator?
IAN: It's hard to get, but we have a sense of that, yes.
Tom: So what is important is to know that upon Earth you are the Creator that created you. What is also important then is that there are those [elements] upon Earth that were created by the Other created. And that can contaminate and create error.
IAN: Yes. That's the difficult part for me.
Tom: For the basic element of humankind is attempting at all times to strive to its higher self, and it is confused because the density of Earth helps the power in opposition to the higher self.
IAN: Yes, they mix it up.
Tom: That is correct. You also know that with your power, which is infinite, all can be changed. You know in science that if you place a drop of one item it can change the properties of the whole.
IAN: Yes, I wondered about that, and it's great you confirm this, this is absolutely how it goes, yes.
Tom: Therefore realize that those of ours can change the whole. You as a scientist understand it when you analyze it: you must now understand it when you cannot analyze it.
IAN: Yes, that's the difficult part. But I see the importance, yes.
Tom: Also realize that who you are creates the ability in you to change all things. Yes.
A portion of the bottlenecking on Planet Earth now comes from the New Age movement, from the releasing of inhibitions and the desire to be again upon Earth, in the belief that the physical reality of Planet Earth is the only reality - and then becoming subjugated to the desire. Therefore the New Age, which is to teach Planet Earth to go forward into growth, has actually stopped it.
JOHN: Is it also cutting off contact with you? There's some idea in the New Age movement that we can go do it ourselves, do our own thing.
Tom: It is not possible to go it alone. The problem in the thinking of the New Age is that, "if you think something away, it will go away". Therefore it invalidates others for whom it did not go away. What it then implies is that you are not pure enough, your thinking is not clean enough, you do not have the techniques. This is in great error, and instead of supporting, enlightening and being joyful, it brings about more guilt. It also is an example of the belief that if you have knowledge of the mind, you can overcome all possibilities. Those of humankind who have lost a child that are in New Age, they have two choices to assume: one that the child was not deserving to live, for it perhaps came in with a predisposition of debts owed, or that its demise came about because of some inadequacy within them, not being able to sustain it.
Both thinking are in error. If you become trapped in the past then your understanding of the future has no value. What is also important, is the understanding of the cosmology of what you term the hierarchical situation of the Universe. We do not like that term 'hierarchical.' But to understand that there are other physical civilizations that are attempting to bring benefit, that there was also the seeding, and to understand that the Twenty-Four civilizations are what they call the twenty-four elders in the Book of Revelations. What is important is to begin to clarify the errors that have crept into the religious aspect that holds man in bondage. It is only in the asking that you do the receiving. Know also: it is time for humankind to understand that they are of us, and must be freed from the burden of poverty.
Remember it is some religious leaders that have created the idea in humankind that it is more worthy to be less, to be poor. It was their way of controlling humankind. If you must continuously struggle for existence, then those who are close to you, and the environment that surrounds you becomes less - this does not give you the freedom to serve properly. We would that all of humankind be joyful. We also know that because humankind can believe and understand that your earthly realms are the reality, the error creeps in, and the confusion. But know that if you focus yourselves with each other, the burden of error can be removed, and the understanding of the true self and your service can be revealed for utilization. It is a time of celebration, in the beginning of its opening into the reality of its rightful position in the Universe. It is the planet of free will, of choice, and it has been kept in a form of density which has entrapped souls in rebirth-recycling. It is now coming into a state of true consciousness.
There are those amongst you that have great joy for Earth, and there are those who do not have, who relate in discomfort to the planet. It is time for humankind to understand that Earth was created to be the true paradise, and for that purpose the variety and beauty were created, for experiencing your physical with the spiritual aspects of humankind. In times past the density upon your planet earth helped to influence an entrapment and soul-recycling.
PHILIP: You mentioned about our no longer having the excuse that things are the way that they are, and my question is around how I, in my own life, often say "Well, I do that because I'm human". And I was reading in the Bible a passage which said "We should be like our Father in heaven who is perfect".
Tom: Is that not what the striving is for? Is it not a religious element that has entrapped humankind and given a rationale for out-cop? I have confused you?
PHILIP: I'm not sure about your saying that religion has caused that to happen.
Tom: There are those forms of religion which say also "it is human to err" but within the human being is contained the divinity of creation. Therefore it is not a truism that it is human to err - it is a mis-truism.
PHILIP: What is it that we can do if there has been a shift to become more aware of our divinity - that I am divine and focused more on that than on my human nature?
Tom: You insist you have a human nature! (Laughter)
PHILIP: I don't want to insist, it's just what it seems like.
Tom: You know you have a divine nature?
PHILIP: I'm aware of it.
Tom: You know?
PHILIP: - Yes.
Tom: You know when you have created error?
PHILIP: Often.
Tom: And just as humankind creates habitual methods of living identity, it is necessary to attempt to remove the habitual nature and to replace them with the divine being that you are. This acceptance of the divinity within you is a beginning. Do not blame yourself when you have erred, but make a position to not repeat it. Always function from the centre of your being, in integrity. What is important is to attain a state of being in which you cannot view yourself with dislike. Also it is important that honesty is functional. You see, there is confusion in humankind, and we have hesitated to speak of honesty, for they then will utilize it in error. It is important to understand that in honesty there must also be wisdom. Therefore, in one form of honesty, you must never take what is another's -you all know this. Humankind makes an error by embarrassing others and then saying "I am honest, they are not". That is not what we mean, do you understand?
PHILIP: Yes, you're saying we need to be appropriate as well as being honest, is that right?
Tom: That is correct. And find a method of communication and behaviour that is consistent with your integrity, and with wisdom. That is difficult, is it not?
ALL: (Laughter)
Tom: Know this: as you now understand your divinity, you must also understand you contain the elements of wisdom. Knowledge is gained from educational methods, but wisdom is innate. Therefore the development of your wisdom is also important.
PHILIP: Yes. Also, earlier, you mentioned that each of us contains the essence of a star. I wondered if you could perhaps explain that more, and what you mean by it?
Tom: This is difficult. Each being exists upon Planet Earth, and each is a total individuality, containing the energy of a living star. It is the light of your soul, do you understand?
PHILIP: I can understand when you say the "light of the soul". But when I think of a star I think of a body in space that exists...
Tom: Is that not light?
PHILIP: Yes.
Tom: Is it not energy?
PHILIP: Yes.
Tom: Is it not living?
PHILIP: Yes.
Tom: Are you not light?
PHILIP: Yes, I see where you're going.
Tom: Therefore you are a star.
DAVID: So is each of us representing a different star?
Tom: That is correct, do not ask us which one.
ALL: (Laughter)
SUSAN: But that star is not the same as the civilizations?
Tom: That is a different point. The civilizations are physical planets. There are stars and planets, and stars that can be created in eventuality into planets. As you have a civilization of millions, they also have a star. Each one is represented.
