# Soviet Russia

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/world_order/WorldCh02.htm

Soviet Russia was allowed to emerge from the destruction of World War II as one of the victors, solely because she was needed as the next "evil empire" against which the civilized West could launch a new Crusade. Because Russia was bankrupt, had lost 40 million of her population in the war, plus another 66 million murdered by the Bolsheviki since 1917, and was unable to feed herself, once again the World Order was obliged to step in with enormous subsidies of food and material from the U.S., in order to maintain an "enemy power". The Belgian Relief Commission of 1916 became the Marshall Plan of 1948. Once again, the loads of supplies were shipped into Europe, ostensibly for our Allies, but destined to maintain the Soviet bloc.
Although Jacob Schiff's personal agent, George Kennan, had regularly toured Russia during the latter part of the nineteenth century, bringing in money and arms for the Communist revolutionaries ([Schiff's] grandson said that Schiff had spent $20 million to bring about the Bolshevik Revolution) more concerted aid was called for to support an entire regime. Kennan also aided Schiff in financing the Japanese in the Russo-Japanese War of 1905; the Japanese decorated Kennan with the Gold War Medal and the Order of the Sacred Treasure.
In 1915, the American International Corporation was formed in New York. Its principal goal was the coordination of aid, particularly financial assistance, to the Bolsheviks which had previously been provided by Schiff and other bankers on an informal basis. The new firm was funded by J.P. Morgan, the Rockefellers, and the National City Bank. Chairman of the Board was Frank Vanderlip, former president of National City, and member of the Jekyll Island group which wrote the Federal Reserve Act in 1910. Directors [of AIC] were:
Otto Kahn of Kuhn, Loeb Co.
George Herbert Walker, grandfather of Vice President George H. Bush
William Woodward, director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Robert S. Lovett, righthand man of the Harriman / Kuhn, Loeb Union Pacific Railroad
John DiRyan
J.A. Stillman [Jr.], son of James Stillman principal organizer of the National City Bank
A.H. Wiggin
Beekman Winthrop
The 1928 list of AIC directors included Percy Rockefeller, Pierre DuPont, Elisha Walker of Kuhn, Loeb Co., and Frank Altschul of Lazard Freres.
In their program of aiding the Communists, AIC worked closely with Guaranty Trust of New York (now Morgan Guaranty Trust). Guaranty Trust's directors in 1903 included:
George F. Baker, founder of the First National Bank
August Belmont, representative of the Rothschilds
E.H. Harriman, founder of Union Pacific Railroad, former vice president of the U.S.
Levi Morton, who was a director of U.S. Steel and the Union Pacific
Henry H. Rogers, partner of John D. Rockefeller in Standard Oil, also a director of Union Pacific
H. McK. Twombly, who married the daughter of William Vanderbilt, and was now the director of fifty banks and industries
Frederick W. Vanderbilt
No one would seriously believe that bankers of this magnitude would finance an "anti-capitalist" revolution for the Communists, yet this is exactly what happened. These same men financed Woodrow Wilson's political campaigns, and it was these same men to whom Wilson referred in his opening address to the Paris Peace Conference, when he said:
"There is moreover a voice calling for these definitions of principles and purposes which is, it seems to me, more thrilling and more compelling than any of the moving voices with which the troubled air of the world is filled. It is the voice of the Russian people. There are men in the United States of the finest temper who are in sympathy with Bolshevism because it appears to them to offer that regime of opportunity to the individual which they desire to bring about."
-- Woodrow Wilson, quoted in "The Great Conspiracy Against Russia", Seghers and Kahn.
The men of "the finest temper", to whom Wilson referred -- the Morgans and the Rockefellers -- did not really desire opportunity for the individual; what they desired was the lifelong imposition of slavery under the World Order, and this is the goal which they continue to strive to achieve, on a world wide basis.
These Americans "of the finest temper" chose Lenin to do their work because he had outlined the plan they wanted in "The Threatening Catastrophe" in September, 1917:
"1. Nationalisation of the banks. Ownership of capital which is manipulated by the banks is not lost or changed when the banks are nationalised and fused into one state bank, so that it is possible to reach a stage where the state knows whither and how, from where and at what time millions and billions are flowing. Only control over bank operations providing they are merged into one state bank will allow, simultaneously with other measures which can easily be put into effect the actual levying of income tax without concealment of property and income.
The state for the first time would be in a position to survey all the monetary operations, then to control them, then to regulate economic life. Finally, to obtain millions and billions for large state operations, without paying the capitalist gentlemen skyhigh commissions for their services. It would facilitate the nationalisation of syndicates, abolition of commercial secrets, the nationalisation of the insurance business, facilitate the control of and the compulsory organization of labor into unions, and the regulation of consumption.
The nationalisation of banks would make circulation of checks compulsory by law for all the rich, and introduce the confiscation of property for concealing incomes. The five points of the desired program then, are nationalisation of the banks, nationalisation of the syndicates, the abolition of commercial secrets, and the compulsory organization of the population into consumer associations."
It was the publication of this program which catapulted Lenin into the leadership of Russia via the Bolshevik Revolution. In 1917, Frank Vanderlip publicly referred to Lenin as "the modern version of George Washington."
The Lenin program is not only the program of Soviet Russia -- it is the program of Roosevelt's New Deal, Truman's Socialism, the postwar Labor Government in England, and the guiding principle of subsequent American Administrations. The Labour Government of England proved Lenin's dictum that the ownership of capital is not affected by the nationalisation of the banks, when they nationalised the Bank of England.
[The U.K. Labour Party was founded by members of the Fabian Socialists --ed]
The Lenin program is the entire program of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, "the actual levying of income tax without concealment of property or income", and "the confiscation of property for concealing incomes". The Lenin program is the program of the big rich precisely because it abolishes private property, and puts it under the control of the state. The state [in turn] is controlled by the big rich, the World Order.
The definitive authority of the Lenin program captured the attention of the financiers. Here was the opportunity to subdue and control all future competition with the power of a totalitarian state, to stifle future development, and to hold the entire population of the world in thrall to their greed. This program took Lenin back to Moscow to seize the government by force and to rule by terrorism.
In "Germany and the Russian Revolution", we find:
Telegram No. 952 D 2615, State Sec. to min in Copenhagen: "Your Embassy is authorized to pay one million roubles to Helphand. The corresponding sum should be drawn from the Legation assets."
Minister Copenhagen 23 Jan. 1916 -- Dr. Helphand; "The sum of a million roubles already reached Petrograd, and devoted to the purposes for which it was intended."
On May 8, 1916, Berlin requested 130,000 M. for Russian propaganda.
Under Secretary State to the Minister in Bern, telegram No. 348: "It was considered advantageous to Germany to bring out the members of Lenin's party, the Bolsheviks, who are about forty in number. The special train will be under military escort."
Vernadsky says, in his "Life of Lenin",
"In the autumn of 1915, the German Russian Social Democrat Parvus Helphand (Israel Lazarevitch) who had formerly been active in the Revolution of 1905, announced [in] the paper published by him in Berlin, 'The Bell', his mission to 'serve as an intellectual link between the armed Germans and the revolutionary Russian proletariat' ... During the war Helphand was engaged in furnishing supplies to the Germany army in huge quantities, and so considerable amounts of money passed through his hands ... A railway car in which were Lenin, Martov, and other exiles was attached to the train leaving for Germany from Switzerland on April 8, 1917. On April 13, Lenin embarked on the steamer sailing from Sassnitz to Sweden. So the trip through Germany took at least four days."
The Leninists quickly exhausted the funds advanced by the Germans when they reached Russia, and once again the Bolshevik bid for absolute power seemed in doubt. To whom should Lenin turn but his powerful friend in the White House? Wilson promptly sent Elihu Root, Kuhn Loeb lawyer and former Secretary of State, to Russia with $20 million from his Special War Fund, to be given to the Bolsheviks. This was revealed in Congressional Hearings on Russian Bonds, HJ 8714.U5, which shows the financial statement of Woodrow Wilson's expenditure of the $100 million voted him by Congress as a Special War Fund. The statement, showing the expenditure of $20 million in Russia by Root's Special War Mission to Russia, is also recorded in the Congressional Record, Sept. 2, 1919, as given by Wilson's secretary, Joseph Tumulty.
Not to be outdone in generosity, J.P. Morgan & Co. also rushed financial assistance to the beleaguered Lenin terrorists. Col. Raymond Robins headed a Red Cross Mission to Russia. Henry P. Davison, J.P. Morgan's righthand man (also a member of the Jekyll Island team which secretly wrote the Federal Reserve Act in 1910), had raised $370 million in cash for the Red Cross during World War I, of which several millions were brought to the Russians by Robins team. Aiding him in this charitable work were Frank Vanderlip, chairman of American International Corp., and William Boyce Thompson, another director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Major Harold H. Swift, head of the meat packing family, accompanied Robins on this mission of mercy, or should we say business ? Swift used the occasion to garner a $10 million meat order for his brother-in-law, Edward Morris, of Morris Co. On Jan. 22, 1920, the Soviets ordered another $50 million of meat from Morris Co.
Wall Street lawyer Thomas D. Thacher was also a key man of the Robins mission of mercy. The involvement of the J.P. Morgan firm with the Bolshevik Revolution is revealed in Harold Nicholson's biography of Dwight Morrow (Morrow was the father-in-law of Charles Lindbergh Jr.) as follows:
"His (Morrow's) interest in Russia dated from March 1917 when Thomas D. Thacher, his law partner, had been a member of the American Red Cross Mission during the revolution. It was strengthened by his friendship with Alex Gumberg, who had come to New York as representative of the All-Russian Textile Syndicate. 'I have felt,' he wrote in May 1927, 'that the time would come when something would have to be done for Russia.' He was himself active in furthering official relations between Soviet emissaries and the State Dept., and he provided M. Litvinov with a warm letter of recommendation to Sir Arthur Salter in Geneva. Nor was this all. When in Paris he gave a dinner party at Foyot's to which he invited M. Rakovsky and other Soviet representatives."
Morrow 's actions might be understandable in a professor of economics at Polytechnic U., but they are incredible from a partner of the world's most prominent banking firm. Alex Gumberg was no mewling social worker but a hardcore propagandist, who returned to the U.S. in 1918 as Trotsky's literary agent, and promptly placed two Trotsky manuscripts with publishers. Gumberg also became consultant to Chase National Bank, and Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett. He had been business manager of the Soviet paper Novy Mir during the first months of revolution in Russia; when Raymond Robins' Red Cross Mission arrived in Russia, Gumberg served as interpreter and advisor to the Mission, working closely with Thacher.
(The present senior partner of Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett is Cyrus Vance, who served as Carter's Secretary of State, and is now a director of the Rockefeller Foundation.)
The international financiers, advised by Gumberg, now launched a worldwide propaganda campaign to sell the Bolsheviks as idealists, selfless humanitarians, and the modern disciples of Christ, who wished only to spread brotherhood and universal love throughout the world. The tune rang strangely against the backdrop of the machine guns steadily chattering in Russia as the "disciples of love" massacred millions of women and children, but none of their devout admirers in the United States heard this as a sour note.
From the outset, the "humanitarians" showed an excessive concern for the material wealth which they had seized from its rightful owners. The New York Times noted on Jan. 30, 1918, a despatch from Petrograd:
"The people's commissaries have decreed a State Monopoly of gold. Churches, museums and other public institutions are required to place their gold articles at the disposal of the State. Gold articles belonging to private persons must be handed over to the State. Informants will receive one-third of the value of the articles."
Lenin said, "The Soviet Union must carefully save its gold. When living with the wolves, howl like the wolves." One of the first orders issued by the new regime was, "The banking business is declared a state monopoly." Signed: Lenin, Krylenko, Podvolsky, Gorbunov.
Marx's philosophy of history claims that the world operates solely through the economic organization of society, based on the production and exchange of goods. However, this is the world view of the parasite, who is concerned only with obtaining his sustenance from the host. The materialist reduction of life to the obtaining of food at someone else's expense eliminates first, man's spiritual life; second, all ideas, because the materialist idea explicitly excludes all other ideas; and third, the long term view, the concept of investing over a period of time for a return which will not be available for years or perhaps never.
The parasitic view is limited to the next meal, or to creating a situation in which he cannot be dislodged before obtaining his next meal. This Marxist short term view has become the standard doctrine in American graduate schools of business, particularly Harvard, which was financed by George F. Baker and J.P. Morgan. The result is that American industry, limited by the short term view, has steadily declined for twenty-five years. The high interest rates imposed by the international bankers also force industry to concentrate on short term gains merely to pay interest on their loans.
Marx said, "The first function of gold is to give the commercial world a material by which to express value, that is, to express the value of all other goods, as homynous variables, that are qualitatively identical and quantitatively comparable." Karl Marx Soc. v.23, p.104.
Marx's economic views were entirely compatible with the views of the banking establishment in the City of London and particularly the House of Rothschild. It is no accident that Karl Marx is buried, not in Moscow, but in London, nor is it an accident that the triumph and bloodbath of the Bolsheviks in Russia gave the Rothschilds and their associates one billion dollars in cash which the luckless Czar had deposited in their European and New York banks.
Few people know that Marx had close relations with the British aristocracy, through his marriage to Jenny von Westphalen. She was related to the Scottish Dukes of Argyll, who had long been revolutionaries; and the Campbells, who set up the baptist splinter group, the Campbellites. Jenny von Westphalen's ancestor, Anna Campbell, Countess of Balcarras and Argyll, was governess to the Prince of Orange from 1657-59, the future King William who later granted the charter of the Bank of England; Archibald Campbell, first Duke of Argyll, accompanied William on his voyage to England in 1688 to seize the throne.
The present Earl of Balcarras is related to Viscount Cowdray, Weetman John Churchill Pearson, whose mother was the daughter of Lord Spencer Churchill; his sister married the Duke of Atholl, and he married the daughter of the Earl of Bradford. The Argyll-Balcarras family is represented by the Lindsay and Campbell families; the present Earl of Crawford, Robert A. Lindsay is the 29th Earl, and also the 12th Earl of Balcarras. His is also chairman of National Westminster Bank, director of Rothschild's Sun Alliance Assurance. His mother was a Cavendish. He was formerly private secretary to the Secretary of State, and later served as Minister of State for Defense and Minister of State for Foreign and Commercial Affairs.
Despite a later reputation for "anti-Communism", Herbert Hoover was not only the most tireless proponent of the League of Nations in partnership with Col. House; he also was the first American to step in with large scale assistance to prevent a massive uprising against the faltering Bolshevik regime. Hoover saved the Bolsheviks by organizing a massive program to rush food to the beleaguered Communists. On Nov. 28, 1917, his associate, Col. House had cabled Wilson a few days after the Bolsheviks seized power, urging the extreme importance of suppressing all American newspaper criticism of the Bolsheviks: "It is exceedingly important that such criticism be suppressed." The telegram was placed in a confidential file, and only came to light six years later.
In "The Unknown War with Russia", Robert J. Maddox noted in 1977, "Wilson greeted the March Revolution in Russia as a major step toward achieving the kind of postwar world he envisioned. He made sure the U.S. was the first to recognize the Provisional Government." Maddox points out that Wilson insisted that No. 6 of his famous Fourteen Points at Versailles was that "Russia should continue under institutions of her own choosing", thus guaranteeing the future of the Bolshevik regime. His closest political aide, Col. House, sent his own secretary, Kenneth Durant, to Russia to become a secretary in the SovietBur in 1920!
William Laurence Sanders, chairman of Ingersoll Rand, and deputy chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, wrote to Wilson, Oct. 17, 1918: "I am in sympathy with the Soviet form of government as the best suited for the Russian people." George Foster Peabody, also deputy chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York since 1914, and noted "philanthropist" who organized the General Education Board for the Rockefellers, stated that he supported the Bolshevik form of state monopoly.
Thus we had three of the most prominent officials of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on record as supporting Bolshevism: Sanders, Peabody and William Boyce Thompson. Thompson then announced he was giving one million dollars to promote Bolshevik propaganda in the United States! Because the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was controlled by five New York banks who owned 53% of its stock, and because these five banks were directly controlled by N.M. Rothschild & Sons of London, we can only conclude that these three men were merely stating the preferences of their employer.
The National City Bank had already loaned Russia $50 million, and Guaranty Trust, whose directors were the leading financiers in New York, now became the financial correspondent for Soviet interests in America. In January 1922, Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover introduced on behalf of Guaranty Trust a resolution permitting relations with "the new State Bank at Moscow". Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes strongly opposed this resolution, but Hoover succeeded in getting it approved. A German banker, Max May, now vice pres. of Guaranty Trust, became head of the foreign dept. of the Ruskombank in 1923, the first Soviet international bank.
"Who's Who" states that Max May came to the U.S. 1883, naturalized 1888, vice pres. Guaranty Trust 1904-18, director and member of board Russian Commercial Bank 1922-25. J.P. Morgan and Guaranty Trust acted as the fiscal agents of the Soviet Government in the U.S.; the first shipments of "Soviet" gold, which was actually the Czar's gold, were deposited in Guaranty Trust.
In a typical move to disguise their operations, Otto Kahn and several officials of Guaranty Trust then founded an "anti-Communist" group, United Americans, which circulated virulent anti-Communist and anti-Jewish propaganda. Like most such organizations, it was designed to discredit and render impotent anyone opposed to Communism who became involved in its work.
On Feb. 1, 1919, Edward L. Doheny, the oil tycoon, told C.W. Barron, founder of the Wall Street Journal:
"Pres. Eliot of Harvard is teaching Bolshevism. The worst Bolsheviks in the U.S. are not only college professors, of whom President Wilson is one, but capitalists and the wives of capitalists. Frank A. Vanderlip is a Bolshevik. Socialism is the poison that destroys democracy. Socialism holds out the hope that a man can quit work and be better off. Bolshevism is the true fruit of Socialism."
The world headquarters of the Bolshevik movement was now at 120 Broadway on Wall Street. The Equitable Life Bldg. at 120 Brodway had been built by a corporation organized by Gen. T. Coleman DuPont. During the early 1920s, 120 Broadway not only housed EquitableLife, but also:
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, whose directors were enthusiastically supporting the Bolsheviks
American International Corporation, which had been organized to aid the Soviet Union
Weinberg and Posner, which received a $3 million order for machinery from the Soviet Union in 1919, and whose vice president was Ludwig Martens, first Soviet Ambassador to the U.S.
John McGregor Grant, whose operations were financed by Olaf Aschberg of Nya Banken, Stockholm, who had transmitted large sums furnished by the Warburgs for the Bolshevik Revolution. The London agent of Nya Banken was the British Bank of North Commerce, whose chairman was Earl Grey, a close associate of Cecil Rhodes. Grant had been blacklisted by the U.S. Government for his support of Germany during World War I
and on the top floor of 120 Broadway was the exclusive Bankers Club.
These were the organizers of the World Order. Their instrument of power was gold. The Great Soviet Encyclopedia noted, "Under socialist economic conditions, gold is also a universal equivalent, used as a measure of value and a scale of prices. The gold content of the Soviet ruble was established at .0987412 grams as per Jan. 1, 1961. In the world socialist market gold is used as the universal money."
Many Americans are puzzled by the relentless devotion of the Rockefeller Foundation to financing Communist organizations in many parts of the world. This dedication to Communism can be traced back to a crucial moment in the Bolsheviks' march to power. In 1917, Mackenzie King had established a lifelong relationship with John D. Rockefeller, Jr. whom he met in June, 1914. They had been born in the same year, 1874, and seemed to agree on everything. Soon, King was working closely with Frederick T. Gates and Ivy Lee to further the Rockefeller "philantropies", which seemed to view Communism as the ideal vehicle to bring about world brotherhood.
King wrote to this friend Violet Markham, "John D. Rockefeller Jr., the truest follower of Christ, has one purpose -- to serve his fellow man." King resolved that his one purpose was to serve Rockefeller; he testified for him at the trial investigating the Colorado Iron and Fuel Co. massacre before the Walsh Committee (the Rockefellers later tried to have Walsh framed and expelled from the Senate, but failed due to the obstinancy of Burton J. Wheeler; J.Edgar Hoover played a crucial role in setting up the frame).
The Rockefellers helped Mackenzie King obtain government contracts for the Canadian Army during World War I, which set King up for later blackmail (the "Panama" hold over the vassals). King sold hundreds of tons of rotten meat to be sent to the Canadian Army in Europe; boots of "leather", which were mostly pasteboard and which disintegrated immediately in the watersoaked trenches; rifles that jammed when they were fired; and collar type life preservers (previously condemned) which broke the soldiers' necks when they jumped into the water.
While Leon Trotsky was in New York in 1917, he received word to return to Russia at once to help bring off the Bolshevik seizure of power. The Rockefellers gave him $10,000 in cash for his journey, procured a special passport for him from President Wilson, and sent Lincoln Steffens to safeguard him on the journey.
When Trotsky's ship stopped in Halifax, the Canadian Secret Service, warned that he was on board, arrested him on April 3, 1917 and interned him in Nova Scotia. The patriotic agents knew that Trotsky was on his way to Russia to take Russia out of the war against Germany, which would free many German divisions to attack the Canadian troops on the Western Front. Prime Minister Lloyd George indignantly cabled demands from London that Trotsky be released, but the secret service ignored him.
By means never explained, Mackenzie King then stepped into the breach and obtained Trotsky's freedom. Trotsky continued on his way to Russia, and became Lenin's chief deputy in the extermination of Russian citizens; he also organized the Red Army with the able help of Wall Street lawyer Thomas D. Thacher. The agents who had arrested Trotsky were dismissed from the service; their careers were ended.
As a reward for his intervention, the Rockefellers appointed Mackenzie King head of the Rockefeller Foundation dept. of Industrial Research at a salary of $30,000 a year (the average wage in the U.S. at that time was $500 year). Frank P. Walsh testified before a U.S. Commission that the Rockefeller Foundation was a cloak for the Rockefeller plan to lead organized labor into slavery.
King also became a director of the Carnegie Corporation. A Lady Laurier left him a large mansion in Ottawa, and in 1921 a group of well-wishers, led by Peter Larkin, refurbished and staffed it for him at a cost of $255,000. King then appointed Larkin High Commissioner of Canada in London. In 1940, the Canadian Parliament voted King, then Prime Minister of Canada "absolute and dictatorial powers for the duration" [of World War II]. On King's 74th birthday in 1948, John D. Rockefeller Jr. gave him $100,000. The Rockefeller Foundation then put up $300,000 to pay for the writing of King's Memoirs. In his final years, King, still on the take, was exposed as a principal in the $30 million Beauharnais Power Co. swindle during the building of the St. Lawrence Seaway. King had accepted $700,000 from Beauharnais for the Liberal Party, and among other enticements had received a trip to Bermuda.
The Rockefellers figured in many pro-Soviet deals during the 1920s. Because of the struggle for power which developed between Stalin and Trotsky, the Rockefellers intervened in October, 1926, and backed Stalin, ousting Trotsky. Years later, they would again intervene when the Kremlin was racked by disagreements; David Rockefeller summarily fired Kruschev.
John D. Rockefeller instructed his press agent, Ivy Lee in 1925 to promote Communism in the U.S. and to sparkplug a public relations drive which culminated in 1933 with the U.S. government recognition of Soviet Russia. In 1927 Standard Oil of New Jersey built a refinery in Russia, after having been promised 50% of the Caucasus oil production. The Rockefeller firm, Vacuum Oil, signed an agreement with the Soviet Naptha Syndicate to sell Russian oil in Europe, and made a $75 million loan to Russia. John Moody had stated in 1911:
"the Standard Oil Co. was really a bank of the most gigantic character -- a bank within an industry ... lending vast sums of money to needy borrowers just as other great banks were doing ... the company was known as the Standard Oil Bank. As Rockefeller was no banker, this meant that the Standard Oil was being directed by professional bankers."
The Standard Oil operation has always been directed by the most professional bankers in the world, the Rothschilds; consequently, the Rothschilds through their agents, Kuhn, Loeb Co. have maintained close supervision of the "Rockefeller" fortune.
In 1935, Stalin expropriated many foreign investments in Russia, but the Standard Oil properties were not touched. The Five Year Plans (1928-32, 1933-37, and 1938-42) were all financed by the international banking houses. During the 1920s, the principal firms doing business with Russia were Vacuum Oil, International Harvester, Guaranty Trust and New York Life, all firms controlled by the Morgan-Rockefeller interests.
Arthur Upham Pope's biography of Litvinov notes that in March, 1921, a trade agreement was signed with Great Britain providing that gold sent in payment for machines bought by Russia would not be confiscated towards old debts or claims. This insured that Czarist gold sent to England would not be seized by his cousins, the British Royal Family. On July 7, 1922, Litvinov revealed that the Russian delegation at the Hague Conference was negotiating with an important group of financiers which included Otto H. Kahn of Kuhn Loeb Co. A week later, Kahn arrived at The Hague. He stated, "The conference with the Russians will bring useful results and will lead to a closer approach to unity of views and policies on the part of England, France and the U.S. in respect to the Russian situation." When Otto Kahn's wife visited Russia in 1936, she was treated like visiting royalty.
In 1922, the Chase National Bank had established the American-Russian Chamber of Commerce to promote trade with and government recognition of Russia. Its chairman was Reeve Schley, a vice president of Chase; he was a director of many corporations including Howe Sound, Electric Boat, the Yale Corp., chairman of Sundstrand and Underwnod; he had served as director of the U.S. Fuel Administration from 1917-1919. His son, Reeve Schley Jr. was a Captain in the O.S.S. under Gen. Donovan in World War II.
Both Chase and Equitable Trust led in granting credits to the Soviet Union during the 1920s. In 1934, Roosevelt established the Export Import Bank to finance increased trade with the Soviet Union. During World War II, Chase was AMTORG'S principal bank in handling the many billions of dollars of Lend Lease transactions for Russia.
Roosevelt went all out in supporting the Soviets, perhaps because all three of his personal assistants, Alger Hiss, Lauchlin Currie and Harry Dexter White, were identified as Soviet agents. Hiss' mentor was Dean Acheson, formerly of J.P. Morgan Co.. Asst Secretary of State A.A. Berle Jr. testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee Aug. 30, 1948 that "Acheson was the head of the pro-Russian group in the State Department." Acheson later became senior partner of Covington and Burling, obtaining the position for the firm as Washington legal representative for nine Communist governments.
On April 29, 1943, the Board of Economic Warfare granted a special license to Chematar Corp. of New York to fill an order from the Soviet Purchasing Commission for 200 lb. uranium oxide, 220 lb. uranium nitrate, and 25 lb. of uranium metal, commodities virtually unknown at that time, thus launching the Soviet atomic program. Today every American citizen lives under the threat of Soviet nuclear war.
On Jan. 29, 1944, Special Ambassador W. Averell Harriman in Moscow informed the State Dept. that "we" must turn over to the Russians the currency printing plates which had been engraved for the U.S. Treasury by Forbes Co. of Boston. The State Dept. delayed action on this request for several weeks. On March 22, Harry Dexter White met with Gromyko at the Soviet Embassy and assured him the plates would be delivered. Both Harriman and White made daily demands until the plates were turned over to the Soviet Union April 14, 1944. The Soviet Union then printed $300 million in currency which was redeemed by the American taxpayers.
After the "Cold War" began, the financiers continued their efforts to aid the Soviets. In 1967, the New York Times announced that a new consortium had been formed to promote trade with Russia, composed of Cyrus Eaton's Tower Corp., Rockefeller's International Basic Economy Corp., and N.M. Rothschild & Sons of London. Eaton had begun his career as a $2 a day factotum for John D. Rockefeller, who later financed his purchase of Canadian Gas & Electric Corp. Eaton stated that Rockefeller soon interested him in Russian affairs. In an interview with Mike Wallace, Eaton claimed that under Communism, the people of the Soviet Union were entirely contented. "They were happy. I was amazed at their happiness and dedication to the system." Eaton was one of the first defenders of the Stalin-Hitler Pact in 1939.
The Rothschilds have rarely been identified with Communist causes, preferring to remain in the background. Only one member, N.M. Victor Rothschild, who served an apprenticeship with J.P. Morgan Co., had become involved with the Apostles Club at Cambridge, described by Michael Straight as composed mostly of Communists who were also homosexual. Its well known members were Guy Burgess and Donald MacLean; Anthony Blunt, Keeper of the Queen's Pictures; and the double, or triple agent Kim Philby. During World War II, Victor Rothschild, who was with MI5, lent his London flat at No. 5 Bentinck St. to Burgess, while his mother, Mrs. Charles Rothschild, hired Burgess as her investment counselor. Blunt left the staff of the Warburg Institute to work with MI5; he introduced Victor Rothschild to his aunt, Teresa Mayor, who later became Lady Rothschild. Blunt has been recently described as having had an "affectionate" relationship with the Queen.
The Rockefeller family is sometimes called the first family of the Soviet Union. When Nelson Rockefeller was nominated for vice president in 1967, Pravda indignantly denounced his critics, saying that charges against Rockefeller were designed only to discredit him, and that the accusations came from ultra right wing organizations. Senator Frank Church, attending the 1971 Dartmouth Conference at Kiev, was amazed to find that " David Rockefeller was treated like we would treat royalty in this country. The Russian people appear to evince an adoration of Rockefeller that is puzzling." When David Rockefeller's plane lands in Russia, crowds line up to greet him at the airport, and line the streets of Moscow as his limousine passes, hailing him with cries of "RAHK FAWLER!". George Gilder remarked that no one knows how to revere, blandish and exalt a Rockefeller half as well as the Marxists.
After World War II, Dean Acheson frantically lobbied for an additional $300 million loan to the Soviet Union. Ed Burling, who was Frederic A. Delano's brother-in-law, had founded the firm of Covington and Burling of which Acheson was partner, with Donald Hiss, brother of Alger.
When Acheson's lobbying failed to develop the Russian aid, the Council on Foreign Relations drafted the Marshall Plan as an alternative measure. Their publication, "Foreign Affairs", then published the "containment plan" as written by "X" (George Kennan). The policy of containment, which has been the official foreign policy of the U.S. toward the Soviet Union since 1947, guarantees not only Soviet Russia's borders, but her continued enslavement of the "Captive nations" which she holds by military force.
Henry Luce, who always provided a forum for the international propagandists, reprinted the entire text of the July, 1947 Foreign Affairs article in Life magazine, July 28, 1947. Its key sentence was "The main element of any U.S. policy towards the Soviet Union must be the long-term, patient but firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tendencies". Luce's Time magazine dubbed Kennan "America's senior policy-maker". He later became a fellow of the Institute of Advanced Study of Princeton.
Kennan was the nephew and namesake of the George Kennan who operated as a Marxist agent for Jacob Schiff in Russia for many years before the Bolshevik Revolution, and was finally expelled by the Czarist Government. Kennan's pen-name "X" was a favorite identification of Socialist operatives. In 1902, the Socialist 'X' Club had been founded in New York by John Dewey, whose Socialist program has dominated American education during the twentieth century. The other founders of the "X" Club were James T. Shotwell, founder of the League of Nations, United Nations etc.; Morris Hillquit, Communist candidate for Mayor of New York, Charles Edward Russell, and Rufus Weeks, vice president and managing director of New York Life, which was controlled by J.P. Morgan.
When Nikolai Kruschev, dictator of the Soviet Union, came to New York Sept. 17, 1959, he was invited to dinner at W. Averell Harriman's Home. Thirty people attended, who controlled aggregate wealth of $40 billion; they included:
Russian born David Sarnoff, head of RCA
Philip Mosely of the Council on Foreign Relations
Herbert H. Lehman of Lehman Bros.
Dean Rusk of the Rockefeller Foundation
George A. Woods, First Boston Corp.
Thomas K. Finletter of Coudert Bros., former Secretary of the Air Force
John K. Galbraith, economist
Frank Pace of General Dynamics.
In Sept. 1960, Kruschev was entertained at Hyde Park at a dinner given in his honor by Eleanor Roosevelt. Present at this select gathering was Victor Hammer, who had fenced the Romanov jewels in the U.S. He sold many Faberge items to Lillian Pratt, wife of the General Motors tycoon; the collection is now in the Virginia Museum in Richmond, Va.
In 1973, the U.S.-USSR Trade and Economic Council, consisting of leading U.S. heads of corporations, was formed to promote "trade" read (gifts) to the Soviet Union. In 1976, G.M. Miller of Textron was named head of the Council. Shortly afterwards, he was appointed chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors by Carter. The Bolshevik Revolution, which was nurtured through its most trying days by three directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William Boyce Thompson, George Foster Peabody, and William Woodward, continues to be supported by the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve System maintains close ties with the Gosbank, the Soviet Central Bank, which controls the Communist Party of the USSR. Gosbank employs 5000 economists, and is known as a "passive", rather than an "active" bank of issue, meaning that it follows orders from other sources, as does the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. The Gosbank-Federal Reserve System "cooperation" in Soviet financial letters is handled through the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland.
In 1949, the present flood of "Eurodollars" originated as European deposits of Communist dollar hoards in the Soviet Eurobank of Paris, Banque Commerciale pour Europe du Nord. The financiers then realized they created a new and even more untraceable source of paper money which had no backing. Anthony Sampson writes that "The more cosmopolitan banks with foreign experts and directors, such as Warburgs, Montagus, Rothschilds and Kleinworts, had also discovered a huge new source of profits in the market for Eurodollars."
These profits now [mid 1980s] amount to some two trillion dollars, all of which are obligations of the American taxpayer. This Ponzi operation was made possible by the exclusive "Central Bankers Club", the Bank for International Settlements, which had been established by Hjalmar Schacht, financier of the Nazi movement, Emile Francqui, guiding genius of Hoover's Belgian Relief Commission, and John Foster Dulles, heir to the title "most dangerous man in America". It was set up in May 1930 by the Hague Treaty to handle German reparations payments, which, of course, were never paid. BIS now controls one tenth of the world's gold, which it rents out at a profit. Its assets have increased by an astronomical 1200% in the past twenty years. U.S. shares of BIS are held by Citibank.
American International Corporation continued to exercise a behind the scenes role in U.S. Soviet dealings until World War II, when W.A. Harriman's presence in Moscow to direct Stalin's handling of the war usurped its duties.
Standard and Poors shows in 1982 an American International Group, an insurance holding company with $3.4 billion in assets, whose attorneys are Sullivan & Cromwell. It was formed from the Cornelius V. Starr insurance network which was part of the CIA's Asiatic operations. Its directors include:
Harry Kearns, chmn Eishenower-Nixon presidential campaign, now chmn American Asian Bank, served as president Export Import Bank 1969-73
William L. Hemphill, pres. United Guaranty, director of Cone Mills (the Hemphill family has been allied with J.P. Morgan for many years)
Douglas MacArthur II, diplomat
John I. Howell, chmn J. Henry Schroder Bank, and Schroders Ltd of London
Edwin A. Granville Mentin of England, who was chairman of American International from 1946-1979, now director of the Starr Foundation
J. Milburn Smith, director of Lloyd's of London.
[There does not appear to be a direct relationship between AIG and AIC --ed]
Prominent American businessmen and political leaders such as W. Averell Harriman do not bother to conceal their pro-Soviet activities. Russian Ambassador Dobrynin casually referred to Henry Kissinger's double role, saying, "I am the laughing third man, sitting still. Kissinger is negotiating for us too." Brezhnev, dictator of Russia, was asked why the Soviet Union did not take a role in Middle East negotiations. He replied, "We don't need representation. Kissinger is our man in the Middle East."
With this kind of influence, it seems odd that the Communists do not precipitate a coup, and seize absolute power in the U.S., as they did in Russia in 1917. There are 200,000,000 answers to this question, not 200,000,000 Americans, but 200,000,000 guns held privately by American citizens. A confidential Ford Foundation study showed that only 5 to 10% of Americans would actively resist a Communist seizure of power. This was the good news. The bad news was that only 1 % of our citizens, armed and opposing the takeover, would defeat it. Since 1948, Americans have asked this writer when the Communists will seize power in the U.S. The answer is that they will seize power after they have confiscated the 200,000,000 guns. Guns are forbidden in the Soviet Union. Only the highest officials are allowed to possess them.
Criminals understand only one law -- the law of force. The criminal syndicalists who seek to enslave the entire world cannot be defeated by humility or compassion, but only by the most determined and the harshest measures. To examine the American situation in perspective, there are only five hundred men, primarily in the major foundations, who are actively engaged in transmitting international banker-Socialist orders to our government. Beneath them are ten thousand politicians, businessmen, media personalities, and academicians who, with the aid of religious operatives, implement the orders from London. This is a much smaller number than the members of the Communist Party of the USSR which rules the Soviet Union.
To protect these traitors, the U.S. government has imported 25 million aliens into the United States, which includes 5000 intensively trained terrorists, and 100,000 hardened criminals. This force is intended to neutralize the opposition of the American people to Communism. The government encourages crime, because it is the nationwide criminal force, not the police force, which keeps the population subdued. Americans must devote all their energies to defending themselves against the professional criminals, protecting their homes and families, leaving them no opportunity to organize against the criminal syndicalists of the World Order. This clever plan of subsidizing the criminal element was the sole achievement of the Law Enforcement Administration, a foundation-organized plan which originated at the [Rockefeller] University of Chicago.
The federal government uses its armed police, the IRS, the FBI, the BATF and the CIA solely to terrorize its American subjects into compliance with the program of the World Order. Most American citizens have had to come to the painful realization that the FBI is not concerned with fighting Communism, but only with battling American anti-Communists. They now realize that the IRS functions as an armed group of terrorists, not to collect funds, of which the government has no need, but solely to extort money by force from American citizens, as part of the program of the World Order. The intent is to render them impoverished and terrorized, so that they will be rendered impotent and unable to organize to resist the World Order. It is the program of [Orwell's] "1984".
Even if they planned otherwise, the five masters of the World Order have now created a situation which must lead to world war, world economic collapse, or both. The thirty-year buildup of the Soviet Union as the next opponent in an ongoing world conflict was noted by Srully Blotnick in Forbes magazine, Nov. 7, 1983:
"A wealthy New York lawyer whose portfolio contained substantial holdings of McDonnell Douglas, Raytheon and General Dynamics, commented, 'It bothers me even to think what would happen if the Russians decided to take us up on our 5% a year solution to the arms race. Once we started dismantling our stategic weapons, the defense stocks will make the hi tech group look stable by comparison. The 60% loss I took on my Fortune computer system could be a hint of things to come'."
The World Order has no religious, political or economic program except World Slavery. Only by subduing all potential opposition can the parasite guarantee his position of lodging on the host. The World Order sets up countless groups to promote any type of idea, and then sets up other groups to fanatically oppose them, but the masters have no dedication to anything except slavery. As R.E. McMaster wrote in The Reaper:
"The goal of international communism is not to destroy Western international debt capitalism. The goal of international communism is to enslave mankind at the behest of Western international debt capitalism."
This is all you can ever know about the present world situation, and it is all you need to know.
In law and finance, it is prudent to make up a "worst case" theory. What is the worst case theory we could apply to the U.S. economy today ? It is not more inflation, higher debt and interest rates, or higher taxes. These are already inevitable. The worst case is a revolution in Russia. Let us suppose a truly terrifying scenario, that the inmates of the Soviet concentration camps have been surreptitiously armed. They rise up and seize power in a coup which would be as impossible to stop as the Bolshevik coup of 1917. Americans would applaud if a patriotic Christian government which, like the Czar's government, desired only peace with the U.S., suddenly seized power in Russia. Or would we?
We could hardly applaud, because we would be too busy dodging the bodies falling from windows on Wall Street. Within hours, our defense-oriented stocks would collapse, dragging down the entire market with them. As Blotnick barely hints, there would be a complete economic collapse in the United States. The fact is that the World Order has made the economy of the U.S. entirely dependent on a "threat" from Russia; it could not survive a "friendly" regime.
That is why the CIA (also known as the Central Investment Agency) co-operates with the KGB to create and destroy anti-Communist groups around the world. The CIA has never engaged in sabotage in the Soviet Union; the KGB has never engaged in sabotage in the U.S. By betraying the anti-Communist fighters at the Bay of Pigs, the CIA bolstered Castro's shaky regime and destroyed his opposition. He has never again faced any challenge. Former CIA official David Attlee Phillips says (p. 107, "THE NIGHT WATCH") that Dean Rusk (Rockefeller Foundation) ordered the cancellation of the air strike, which doomed the anti-Communist forces at the Bay of Pigs to annihilation. Powers, in his biography of Richard Helms, also identifies Rusk as the man who cancelled the air support of the anti-Communists.
[Editor's comment: The "Soviet" bogeyman has since been replaced by a new enemy.]
