# Stop Misleading the Children, Mr. Jennings

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_tavistock04.htm

by Brian Desborough 1999
from Whale Website
Contents
Introduction
Social Engineering
Global warming
Wicca
The Illuminati
Who killed President Kennedy
Mind Control
Future Illuminati Plans
Notes and References
Return to Tavistock
Return to Mind Control
With considerable media fanfare, ABC television news anchor Peter Jennings is promoting his new book, which is co-authored by ABC staff producer Todd Brewster.(1)
Entitled "The Century for Young People", the lavishly-illustrated book, oriented toward children, purports to present a realistic overview of 20th century history.
In actuality, the book imparts the same misleading political spin on historical events as we have come to expect from our Illuminati overlords, via their London-based command center known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, whose membership is composed of major media luminaries, bankers, politicians, captains of industry, etc.. Thus, in placing the blame solely on the Japanese for the Pearl Harbour attack, the book, which claims to have been extensively researched, fails to inform the readers of the causal factors which led up to the attack. These included the British-engineered downfall of Prime Minister Okuma and the Rockefeller-instigated expulsion of Japan from her Chinese oilfield concessions.
As a congressional hearing chaired by then Senator Harry Truman revealed,
the Pearl Harbor attack was planned at the New England office of the Rockefeller-funded Institute of Pacific Relations, not in Japan as is popularly believed.
As a British cabinet minister stated before Parliament in 1944:
"Japan was provoked into attacking America at Pearl Harbor. It is a travesty on history to say that America was forced into the war."
If the book authors had presented the true facts, perhaps Americas next generation would realize that the Pearl Harbor attack was a payback episode for the egregious intervention into Japans internal affairs of state perpetrated by the Rockefeller oil dynasty and its corrupt puppet Franklin D. Roosevelt.(2) In a similar manner, the book portrays photographs of Nazi atrocities, yet fails to mention that the Nazi Party was created and funded by the City of London and Wall Street financiers, using George Bushs father as the bagman.
It does not comment on the fact that U.S. taxpayers unwittingly funded the establishment of Hitlers military, or that Dr. Josef Mengele, the Auschwitz "Angel of Death" was covertly brought to America at the conclusion of W.W.II in order to implement technologically-advanced mind-control techniques upon many hapless Americans.(3) Books such as the one written by Jennings and Brewster serve only to foster successive generations of politically ill-informed cannon fodder, who mindlessly engage in wars planned years in advance, fought to enhance the aggrandizement of the Illuminati-controlled military-industrial complex. At the present time NATO "peacekeepers" are active in more than one hundred countries. True peace will not break out globally unless the next generation of children are made aware of the false dogma ranging from geopolitics to the New Age movement, which deliberately has been promulgated by Illuminati social engineers and media personnel.
As we are about to enter a new millennium, it is, perhaps, an opportune time to debunk many misconceptions foisted upon us by a controlled media. This article is therefore oriented toward teenagers, not adults, many of whom possess too rigid a belief structure to accept reality. It also will not be viewed favorably by the majority of New Agers, who tend to ignore negative subjects.
Such denial is not only a sickness, it can also create negative karma. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqi women and children have died because NATO forces destroyed that nations infrastructure during the contrived Desert Storm war. This war would not have happened if people had learned to become politically aware and to say no to Illuminati political hacks.(4) The following are some of the subjects which young people need to be informed about:
Back to Top
Social Engineering When American evangelist E. Grandison (Charles) Finney (1792-1875) became a minister, his sermons were delivered in a calm, unemotional manner. Unfortunately for the good shepherd, most of his flock abandoned his ministry, never to return. Realizing that he had to find a way to attract and maintain an enthusiastic congregation, Finney discovered that if normal brain function is disturbed through major fear, shock or emotion, heightened suggestibility and impaired judgment occur temporarily.
This facilitates the implanting of a new belief structure. Instead of appealing to the intellect, Finney began to deliver sermons replete with copious amounts of fire and brimstone, spoken in a loud, emotion-filled manner.
Cognizant that Finney had discovered a technique which turned previously-rational people into mindless robots, other pastors adopted Finneys evangelical methods, which became known as the Boston Movement - the foundation of todays Fundamentalist Christian Church, exemplified in the hysterical rantings and ravings of television evangelists, more intent upon making a buck than in saving souls. A classic example of the effectiveness of Finneys behaviour-modification techniques was the Children of God Church of the 1960s, The church pamphlets promoted paedophilia and sex between children. A granddaughter of the cults founder alleges that she was made to have sex with important government officials and had "met presidents from around the world." The cult was protected by powerful political figures, including Chilean dictator Pinochet.
The late movie actor River Phoenix revealed that as a child, he had been forced to have sex at the time that his father was an archbishop of the Children of God Church. Shortly after some 170 children were taken into protective following a police raid on a Children of God compound, River Phoenix died from a purported drug overdose on Halloween night.
His body bore no needle marks. Was his death accidental, or was this a ritual murder perpetrated in order to prevent him from revealing what he knew? Finneys method was adopted by the Tavistock Institute. Founded in London in 1922 as a psychological warfare research center, it has developed into the central body responsible for the oversight of a global mind-control network. The Institute realized that by means of repeated psychological shocks, or stressful events, entire populations could be psychologically-controlled. This is achievable by providing a controlled psychological environment. Through its control of the Army psychiatric directorate, Tavistock effectively controlled the British army during W.W.II. At the conclusion of W.W.II, Tavistock began to establish a global network of psychiatric centers, in order to influence the ideologies of mass populations.
This subversive network, which was funded primarily by the Rockefeller Foundation and large corporations, included such establishments as the Stanford Research Institute, the U.S. Office of Naval Research and the Science Policy Research Unit in England, the latter becoming a major force in the development of social manipulation techniques, and has engaged in classified contract studies for NATO.
It has become an accepted practice for high level NATO military personnel to be implanted with mind-control programs. It was JFKs space program which sounded the economic death-knell for the Western nations. Until that time, the geopolitical clout of Western nations primarily had been derived from the profits of the narcotics trade and industrial growth. In 1963, NASA placed a contract with Tavistock to determine the effects of the aerospace industry on Western society.
The Institute found that the space program had so ignited the imagination of the public, that the Western world was in danger of becoming a technological society, replete with many free-thinkers. If allowed to continue, this trend would cause the Illuminati to lose its dominance over the populace. So alarmed were the Illuminati that they convened a conference in France; the conference concluded that in order for the Illuminati movers and shakers to continue their dominion over the masses, the populace of Western nations must be brainwashed into accepting the de-industrialization of their countries. Deindustrialization was accomplished by culturally shocking the masses into accepting the formation of vast environmental agencies staffed with parasitic bureaucrats. Admittedly, some anti-pollution legislation is necessary, but the mountains of nebulous paper and draconian penalties issuing forth from environmental agencies, has thrust the Western world into a nearly-insolvent post-industrial era. Most of the global pollution arising from transportation and industry readily could be eradicated through the implementation of proven over-unity (free-energy) devices, while polluted rivers can be cleansed through the application of Schauberger vortexian technology. Not surprisingly, environmental bureaucrats have repeatedly blocked the implementation of such devices for fear of losing political clout. The Tavistock Institute published a report in 1974 which revealed that environmentalist, New Age and religious organizations are, in actuality, all part of a unified, planned social engineering conspiracy. At the request of the Institutes director, Dr. Willis Harmon, key elements of the report were published in book form as The Aquarian Conspiracy by Harmon protégé Marilyn Ferguson.
The last thing that the Illuminati wants is a populace which thinks for itself, something most New Agers fail to do, relying instead upon books and lectures promulgated by disinformers and kooks. The recent New Age emphasis on angels, for instance, has only occurred because New Agers have failed to determine the earthly origins of the angel myth.(5) In short, social engineering is an organized attempt by Illuminati front organizations to brain-wash the global populace into accepting the destruction of national sovereignty, as a precursor to the establishment of a global totalitarian government.
Global warming According to the Chicken Little climatologists at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and various environmental activists, carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources are causing major global warming, which in turn is causing a massive breakup of the Antarctic ice shelves.
To make matters worse, state these doomsayers, the year 2000 will usher in major solar activity, resulting in failure of satellites and leaving cities without electrical power. These dire predictions are merely another social engineering ploy aimed at further de-industrialization, in order to achieve the Illuminati goal of reducing the global populace to mediaeval serfdom. This is why it is incumbent upon you, dear reader, to conduct your own research, instead of leaving the task to experts whose livelihood is in the hands of their Illuminati overlords. These doomsayers are primarily basing their claims upon computer models, not upon empirical data. In actuality, carbon dioxide is merely a secondary greenhouse gas - water vapor possessing twice the greenhouse effect, even though it is being ignored in environmental studies. Water vapor and other primary greenhouse gasses such as ozone, cause greenhouse warming when acted upon by solar radiation. Since solar radiation is a variable, so global temperatures vary accordingly.
Another variable is the amount of water vapor present in the atmosphere; every minute, approximately 20 ice comets weighing about 100 tons apiece enter the earths atmosphere and vaporize, continually adding to our planets water content. Claims that we are in a global warming period are primarily based upon temperatures recorded by small boxes known as Stevenson Screens; the majority of these are located in cities, where thermal radiation from large expanses of asphalt and concrete result in temperatures higher than those encountered in sparsely-populated areas. The system does not record oceanic temperatures. Since 75% of the planets surface is covered by water and ice, a false impression is created from such recorded data. A much more accurate depiction of global temperatures is provided by NOAA weather satellites, which record temperatures of the lower atmosphere in a uniform planetary sweep. Nineteen years of data recorded by NOAA reveals that little, or no global warming has occurred during this time period. Solar activity occurs in approximately 11 year cycles. The present cycle began in May, 1996 and is predicted to peak in the year 2000. Contrary to media reports, the present cycle has exhibited far less solar activity than the two previous cycles. The environmental doomsayers had a field day when a large iceberg broke away from the Antarctic ice shelf and was attributed to global warming. A perusal of The American Navigator, which has recorded iceberg activity since 1799, reveals that that particular iceberg was much smaller than ones sighted in the past. In 1854, an iceberg was observed which was much larger; in 1927, an iceberg covered an area of some 10,000 square miles, while an iceberg spotted in 1956 by an American icebreaker was 208 miles long by 60 miles wide. The notion that CFCs are responsible for the hole in the ozone layer at the South Pole is ludicrous, since the hole was observed prior to the introduction of CFCs. Moreover, CFC molecules are so heavy that they sink into the soil, where they are consumed by anaerobic bacteria. Studies conducted at Chinas Changchun University suggest that solar high energy particles consume ozone over the Antarctic.
CFC patents held by Dupont were about to expire, which would have permitted third world nations to manufacture their own CFCS, Dupont accordingly developed the flammable and toxic HCFC as a replacement product and enlisted United Nations aid in imposing a global ban on the more efficient and safe CFCS, thereby providing Dupont with a new monopoly market and multi-billion dollar windfall profits.
Wicca Contrary to public belief, modern witchcraft is not of Celtic derivation, and is not associated with the Old English word witan meaning "to know", or any word meaning "craft of the wise".
Wiccan covens are covertly controlled on behalf of the Illuminati by means of a United Nations organization called Womens International Collectives (WICCE); it interfaces with the Russian-directed Womens International League for Peace and Freedom and is associated in America with the Revolutionary Communist Party, which was involved in precursor activities that culminated in the last Los Angeles riot. The Wicca tradition began with the Khwajagan-associated Bedouin tribe known as the Aniza.
The word "coven" is derived from their practice of performing rituals wearing winding sheets known as a Kafan; their meetings were called an Az Zabat, from which we get "sabat". The cults sacrificial knife was an Adh-dhamme, which gave rise to the wiccan "athame". Robin is a traditional wiccan name, presumably derived from the name of the Aniza cult leader - Rabbans. The Aniza camel brand later became known as the witches foot (the peace sign). The tribal totem was the goat. Some of the cult migrated to Spain circa 1460, where some cult members came under the influence of the malevolent Rabbi Isshaq Toledano, who persuaded them to cast spells against his enemies and engage in blood rituals.
The Illuminati The Illuminati is a very covert satanic cult which dominates global commerce and the military / industrial complex. Its hierarchy is composed of thirteen bloodline families whose ancestry is traceable back to the Babylonian era.
All American presidents are bloodline (George W. Bush and Vice-President Gore are the presidential candidates with the strongest Illuminati bloodlines). The creature at the apex of the Illuminati pyramidal structure is a French Marquis, who bears the rank Pin dAr.
He attends two human sacrifices in Orange County, California, each year; heads of state, politicians, celebrities, military and law enforcement personnel have been observed at these rituals.
Lesser Illuminati organizational bodies include,
the Octagon the Grand Druid Council of Thirteen the Committee of Three Hundred
the Octagon
the Grand Druid Council of Thirteen
the Committee of Three Hundred
At the bottom of the pyramid are satanic lodges and covens, e.g. the British Pickengill coven and the Wessex Lodge, the latter being the directors of the American Skull and Bones Society.
An Illuminati sub-group is the Sovereign Order of the Dragon, which controlled the evil Egyptian priesthood and whose later members included Dracul, the father of Vlad the lmpaler (Dracula). A 19th century letter which used to be displayed in the British Museum, was written by the Illuminist Albert Pike. It details three world wars planned by the Illuminati.
It accurately described the last two World Wars and claims the next one will be initiated by provoking religious differences between Jew and Arab (probably through destruction of the Islamic mosque situated adjacent to Jerusalems Dome of the Rock).
The remaining global powers will choose sides and fight themselves to a standstill, and destroy each others economic and religious institutions.
Out of the chaos will arise a totalitarian New World Order and a new religion which embraces Lucifer (the new global religion is currently being composed under the direction of industrialist Maurice Strong, at a remote retreat in Crestone County, Colorado).
Who killed President Kennedy Jenningss book claims that Lee Harvey Oswald was the perpetrator and ignores evidence to the contrary.
The person charged with the crime was two inches shorter than the Oswald who went to Russia: he was probably a Latvian Oswald double named Al Hidell. It is not possible to fire a rifle without receiving powder residue on the cheek, yet "Oswalds" paraffin test proved negative - case closed. The assassination was directed by British Intelligence operative Major Louis Bloomfield, c.e.o. of the Permindex Corporation. Clay Shaw and Roy Cohn were directors of Permindex.
The actual assassination was perpetrated by members of the Defense Industrial Security Command (the military / industrial complex security arm) and FBI sharpshooters, the supervisor of the FBI team posing as treasurer of a Pasadena church. According to intelligence sources, Kennedys head wound was caused by a radio-controlled shaped charge of explosive located under John Connallys jump seat (the explosion was visible in the original uncut version of the Zapruder film).
At least one member of a psy-ops team was present in order to momentarily mentally misdirect the attention of the Presidents wife away from the blast source, It is a matter of record that the limos interior was removed and replaced by a new one within 24 hours, presumably in order to dispose of the explosives firing mechanism. In a private communication with the writer, a crewmember of Kennedys Air Force One aircraft claimed that the mortally-wounded president was covertly transported to Bethesda Naval Hospital, and died the following spring. The autopsy photographs are of slain police officer and Kennedy look-alike J.D. Tippet.
Prime motives for the assassination were the presidents intent to federalize the Federal Reserve and his planned cessation of the Vietnam war, which would have meant cancellation of an $11 billion contract to the Bechtel Corporation for the construction of a naval base (Lady Byrd Johnson was allegedly a major Bechtel stockholder).
Mind Control In its coverage of "Unabomber" Ted Kaczynski, the Jenningss book omits the most important aspect of the case: Kaczynski had been a volunteer for a CIA-funded MK-ULTRA mind-control project at Harvard University.
The writer, who has assisted in the de-programming of mind-control survivors, invariably finds that persons charged in bombings or multiple shootings, are victims of mind-control projects.(6) It has been customary for the offspring of Illuminati initiates to be programmed in order to perpetuate the organization. Mind-control techniques were elevated to a new scientific level during W.W.II by the Auschwitz "Angel of Death" Joseph Mengele, who subjected infants to prolonged intense torture, in order to force the minds of the hapless children to split into several thousand alter personalities.
At the conclusion of W.W. II, Mengele was covertly brought to the United States under Operation Paperclip, and established mind-control facilities at various Federal facilities, including China Lake Naval Weapons Facility and later at Area 51. Typical trauma induced in infants at these facilities included limb dislocation, sexual abuse and forced observation of the execution of "expendable" children. Many mind-control victims are the offspring of multi-generational satanic cult families, while others are the children of military fathers who knowingly permit their children to become mind-control victims in order to further their own careers.
Numerous child-care centers are involved in satanic cult and mind-control activity. Sadly, such evil activity is protected by the Illuminati-controlled media, which declines to expose it, yet highlights the disinformation spewed forth from the False Memory Syndrome Foundation. This insidious foundation was established to discredit claims of ritual sexual abuse and mind control, insisting that such claims are the result of false memories.
Significantly, prominent members of this organization have included CIA-funded mind-control researchers such as the late Dr. Jolyon West, and supporters of pedophilia, including self-admitted pedophile Harold Merksey. Foundation member Dr. Ralph Underwager was forced to resign after it was publicly revealed that he advocated sex between adults and children, claiming that it was "An acceptable expression of Gods will for love", during an interview with the Danish pedophile magazine Paedika. Membership of the foundation is interlocked with that of the Committee for the Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP), an organization which debunks the proven free-energy research of such luminaries as Nobel Prize nominee Nikola Tesla.
A board member of CSICOP is Professor Paul Kurtz, chairman of Prometheus Books, which publishes books describing pedophile encounters. Its human sexuality editor is CSICOP member Professor Vern Bullough, who is also a board member of Paedika. Typical media suppression of the truth concerning ritual sexual abuse and mind control (sexual abuse provides the trauma which causes the mind to dissociate) occurred during press coverage of the McMartin Preschool trial. Claims of false memories were highlighted, yet key evidence suggestive that ritual sexual abuse had, indeed occurred, was downplayed or ignored. One day in 1976, the unconscious body of rape victim Karen Klass was discovered in her Huntington Beach home. She was the ex-wife of Righteous Brothers vocalist Bill Medley; she died from her injuries five days later. Her young son attended the McMartin Preschool. Her death was investigated by Hermosa Beach Chief Detective Paul Bynum, whose investigative records later mysteriously disappeared.
He later became a private detective. In 1984, members of the McMartin Preschool staff received indictments after a grand jury heard allegations from preschoolers that they had been taken from the school by means of tunnels, sexually molested, then forced to watch as school staff killed turtles and animals, informing the children as they did so that the same fate would happen to them and their families if they spoke about the sexual abuse.
Shortly after the indictments had been handed down, Gerald Klass, the husband of the slain Karen Klass, was killed when he drove his car over a cliff. The Hermosa police allegedly made no attempt to determine whether the Klass deaths and the McMartin indictments were interrelated. The attorney for indicted McMartin staff member Raymond Buckey retained the services of the previously-mentioned Paul Bynum.
After viewing the videotaped interviews of the preschoolers, Bynum concluded that the children had indeed been sexually abused at the school. Curiously, when police arrested Buckey, Bynums missing investigative records were discovered on Buckeys desk. Bynum was ordered to testify at Buckeys trial. On the morning he was scheduled to testify, Bynum was found dead from a gunshot wound. Although his death was ruled a suicide, the Manhattan Beach weekly newspaper the Easy Reader stated that Bynums close friends couldnt think of any reason why he would commit suicide. Could it be that he was murdered because it became known that he had unearthed animal bones and turtle shelf fragments on a vacant lot adjacent to the preschool, thus corroborating the childrens claims of seeing the killing of turtles and animals? The first parent to question the possibility of sexual molestation at the McMartin Preschool was Judy Johnson, who alleged that her son returned home from the preschool with a bleeding anus. After going public with her suspicions she purportedly received threats and believed that she was being poisoned.
The writer is personally aware of several instances in which offices of therapists involved in the treatment of victims of sexual abuse and mind-control have been broken into and sprayed with pesticide. He is also cognizant of one mind-control survivor who was hospitalized for ten days after her apartment was unlawfully entered in her absence and sprayed with diazinon pesticide. Judy Johnson was allergic to alcohol. After becoming the target of ridicule, she began drinking and died from alcoholic poisoning. Other preschool parents filed complaints after their infants not only spoke of sexual abuse, but also contracted the sexually-transmitted disease known as Chlamydia.
The tunnels beneath the school through which the children claimed to have been taken, were not in evidence at the commencement of the police investigation. Fearing that they had been filled in to conceal evidence of criminal activity, the parents engaged the services of Ted Gunderson, the former FBI Chief of Station, Los Angeles, to search for traces of tunnels. Realizing that a hostile press might criticize him for a lack of an archaeological background, Mr. Gunderson wisely enlisted the aid of five earth scientists and forensic geologists from major universities.
The McMartin case had become the butt of media ridicule after District Attorney Ira Reiner, without bothering to have the area beneath the school excavated, declared that the childrens accounts of tunnels were false (Reiner allegedly was the protégé of then State Attorney General John Van de Camp. According to the Executive Intelligence Revue, much of the State Attorneys campaign funding had been provided by the pornography industry). As Gundersons team of professionals commenced excavations at the spot that a former preschooler claimed had been a tunnel entrance, the Los Angeles Times began a series of articles ridiculing the effort. When the excavation team did, in fact, not only discover a tunnel, but also turtle shells and the bones of more than two hundred animals, the newspaper ended its snide articles with a single-paragraph statement which tersely stated that "evidence" of tunnels had been revealed. Why did the Times not report on further excavations of the tunnel system? In a private conversation with this writer, Mr. Gunderson stated that one tunnel terminated beneath a trapdoor in the bathroom floor of an adjacent triplex. As excavations proceeded, facilitated by a survey conducted by geophysicist Robert Beer with the aid of an electromagnetic scanner, it was found that the roots of an avocado tree had been cut with a saw in order to clear a path for the tunnel. This disproves the media claim that the tunnel system, which extended for approximately sixty feet, was the work of a large animal. Initially, seven members of the McMartin staff had been indicted in 1984 by a grand jury which had been ordered by Reiners predecessor, Robert Philobosian, following an intensive investigation which included interviews with about four hundred children. The children alleged that Satanic rituals, which involved sexual molestation, occurred in the tunnels and at other locations. Commonality in the description of the alleged rituals given by the interviewed children was noted by the investigators, who concluded that at least forty-one of the children had been sexually molested. The McMartin defendants were charged with the sexual molestation of not less than eighteen infants over a period of ten years, accompanied by the making of death threats in order to prevent the children from talking. In January, 1986, newly-elected District Attorney Reiner declared that the evidence was insufficient to try five of the defendants and charges against them were dropped.
Only Peggy McMartin Buckey and her son Raymond were brought to trial. The trial began in 1987 and ended in 1990 with the acquittal of Mrs. Buckey, which is surprising since she testified that she was only employed by the preschool for a few weeks; this is contradicted by payroll records which indicate that she worked at the school for several years. The judge declared a mistrial in the case involving Raymond Buckey.
At a press conference held at the conclusion of the second trial, the jury members were unanimous in agreeing that sexual molestation had taken place at the school, but could not prove that Raymond Buckey was the perpetrator. Raymond Buckey was tried for a second time in 1990, and again acquitted due to a hung jury. Thus ended the longest and costliest criminal proceedings in American history. Perhaps the outcome would have been different had Ira Reiner introduced as evidence the discovery of the tunnel System.(7) Not surprisingly, the news media, which initially gave massive coverage to debunking the childrens allegations, suddenly found the affair not newsworthy upon discovery of the tunnels, and pulled their reporters off the case. Was this because the children had claimed that many of their sexual perpetrators were famous politicians, film stars and sports figures? If this sounds improbable, the readers attention is drawn to the fact that the writer is aware of mind-controlled survivors who claim that they were used in kiddieporn movies made at the ranch of a well-known movie director. The media (including the New York Times) gave considerable coverage to the pernicious debunking of the preschoolers credibility delivered by Debbie Nathan, an advocate for the pedophile-associated False Memory Syndrome Institute.
She claimed that there is no evidence that ritual sexual abuse ever occurred at the McMartin Preschool and that the tunnel excavation was a hoax.
In view of the fact that the tunnels entrance and route were exactly where the children claimed it would be found, the presence of turtle and animal bones, clinical evidence of trauma to the genital area caused by a blunt object, and an outbreak of sexually-transmitted Chlamydia, it would appear that Ms. Nathan is either suffering from an acute case of myopic vision, or is a disinformer for the intelligence community. For decades, the Illuminati-controlled intelligence agencies have inflicted satanic ritual abuse on infants for the purpose of creating mind-controlled sex slaves. The hapless children (known in the intelligence community as Black Widows) are then used to entrap and blackmail heads of state, politicians, bureaucrats and entertainment celebrities. Until 1960, mind-control programming of children was primarily conducted within facilities owned by the intelligence agencies.
Fearing exposure, a network of preschools and orphanages was established by the intelligence agencies as a cover, throughout the United States and Europe. This network includes numerous religious daycare centers, administrated by Satanists posing as pillars of the religious community. If parents reading this article believe that satanic practices could never occur at the preschool attended by their infants, think again. Space does not permit an in-depth expose of the pervasiveness of this diabolical state of affairs, but one case intensively researched by the writer may serve to exemplify the problem.
It involved a mother who had been born into a multi-generational family of Satanists; she was genetically-bred to possess outstanding psychic abilities, in order to officiate at high-level Illuminati rituals and also to become a member of the Janus psy-ops assassination group. Because of her background, she was subjected to appalling trauma and mind-control programming at the hands of Joseph Mengele, for the first nineteen years of her life. Her mind-control programming began to break down after the death of Mengele in 1989, and began recovering memories of attending Illuminati rituals involving dignitaries and members of the European nobility. This writer has personally observed many hours of video-taped interviews of her conducted by a psychiatrist while she was under the influence of sodium amytol.
During these sessions, she named perpetrators who had sexually abused her as a child. One of the names was of a person known by the writer to be the head of the Illuminati High Council of the United States. Upon recovering her memories she realized that if Mengele had taken her to observe numerous Illuminati rituals in Europe as part of her training, there would have been major lapses in her school attendance. Seeking verification, she found that all her grade-school records were missing. Suspecting that her daughter, aged six, had been sexually abused, she had her interviewed separately by a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a therapist.
All concluded and signed statements that she had been sexually abused.
The child informed the psychiatrist that her father was the perpetrator. The child was then interviewed by a policewoman, who then informed the mother that the daughter had disclosed that her father was sexually-abusing her. The detective (a freemason) assigned to the case refused to press charges, claiming that it is wrong to imprison a man for sixteen years on a childs testimony. When the mother protested, she received a threatening letter from the police chief. She then attempted to place the matters in the hands of Child Protective Services, who declined to take appropriate action in spite of the therapists affidavits. The writer has heard several claims by sexual abuse victims that a national satanic network exists within the Child Protective Services system. The father filed for divorce following his wifes memory recall of satanic rituals and family involvement in them; years of intense torture and trauma had taken its toll and she was hospitalized before the divorce became final. While in hospital, her husband served her with an eviction notice and she was given twelve hours to remove her personal effects from her own home. To make matters worse, a family court commissioner ignored the sworn affidavits of the therapists, which had been entered into the court records under oath, and awarded, sole legal custody of her children to her husband. He also ordered her to pay $12,000 to her husbands attorney, curiously, this was the exact sum she had received in her divorce settlement, thus rendering her penniless and homeless. This is not an isolated case. Every mind-control survivor that the writer has encountered, has been made penniless as soon as they recovered memories and severed contact with their handler. Presumably this is an Illuminati ploy to force the hapless victim back into the system. A recent perusal of the court records appertaining to the above case revealed that the commissioner unlawfully omitted to enter the therapists affidavits into the case file.
Considering her elevated Illuminati status, could it be that he was in collusion with the Illuminati, who ordered him to deprive her of her beloved children, in an attempt to force her to return to the fold? She claims that her ex-husband has told her that she can see her daughter again if she does the Illuminatis bidding. Significantly, he works for a person who attends gatherings at the notorious Bohemian Grove. Shortly prior to the custody hearing, the office of the psychiatrist who had examined the womans daughter was burgled. The only item stolen was this womans case file.
The psychiatrist, Dr. Daniel Scheile, who was conducting a study of mind-control survivors was then incarcerated in a psychiatric facility for two weeks. On the day of his release, he was found hanged in his garage; his death was ruled a suicide. Presumably in an attempt to terrorize the woman into returning to the Illuminati, she was shown a video of Dr. Scheile being suffocated, then hanged by three men and a women. She identified one of the perpetrators as her husbands attorney; the other three had attended the custody hearing and had later been observed in the company of her husband. According to Dr. Scheiles autopsy report, he weighed more than two hundred pounds and was hanged with a ligature measuring 3/8 ths. inches in diameter. No tracheal damage was sustained. The writer recently showed the report to a doctor who was experienced in forensic pathology. He concluded that it was impossible for such a heavy person to be hanged with such a thin ligature without resultant tracheal damage. Prior to losing custody, her daughter told the woman about a "bad room" in the upper floor of the Christian daycare center which she attended in Anaheim, California. The chaplain at the school is also a police chaplain. The woman remembers seeing him, accompanied by his police chief, at Illuminati satanic rituals held in the crypt of a church at nearby Longbeach. The chaplain was also a close friend of the music teacher at a school attended by her then ninth-grade son. Upon her son joining the school band, the teacher took the band on a weekend trip to a camp in the San Bernardino mountains. The boy claims that he was awakened in the middle of the night and forced to attend an initiation ritual, in which he was made to sit in the middle of a circle, together with other new band members. They were surrounded by band members clad in hooded black robes, who were chanting and holding candles. This practice, which smacks of occultism, was terminated following the mothers formal complaint to the school principal. Awarding custody of the mothers children to the father despite the findings of three professional therapists and a policewoman is not simply aberrant behaviour - it is an act of the most diabolical evil, and exemplifies the foul stench which pervades the judicial system throughout America and Western Europe. Therefore let us conclude this brief overview of a typical mind-control survivors life with an verbatim excerpt from the psychologists report on her three interviews she had with the mothers daughter:
"Dont let me go back to my Daddy. He hurts me. Daddy touches me between the legs. Daddy touches my private parts. Dont let me go back there. Im not safe with Daddy... [crying]... It isnt safe with Daddy. He hurts me. I want my Mommy. I want to be safe."
The psychologist diagnosed dissociative personality disorder and all three therapists referred the case to the Child Protective Services, who refused to take action.
During the period when she was conducting the interviews, the psychologist received threatening phone calls, underwent vehicular harassment and discovered that her office had been broken into, sprayed with pesticide and the rug smeared with animal excrement. She no longer handles cases involving sexual abuse or mind control. On April 7th, 1997, a friend of the writer attended a banquet in Washington, D.C., hosted by members of the Eastern Establishment. He overheard the daughter of a well-known New York banking family speaking about the woman referred to in the above case. She told her friends that they had to punish the woman by taking away her children, because she was refusing to do their bidding.
And this is the land of the free? The woman has not been able to see her daughter since the custody hearing six years ago, and was unable to meet her son again until he was nineteen years old. She now has an excellent rapport with him and he visits her regularly. After a child has developed a multiple personality following induced trauma, the programmer assigns an access code to each alter personality, which is then programmed for a specific task, e.g. to be a sex slave, assassin or drug courier. A network of microchip implants is often embedded in the victim. Many of these are powerful microprocessors composed of synthetic protein, rendering them undetectable by means of X-rays. Programs are reinforced by means of "triggers" inserted into television programs. A major trauma-based mind-control program is known as Monarch; Monarch programmed multiples are often used as assassins or to perform tasks for the Illuminati. Many children are programmed to serve as sex slaves for pedophile politicians and heads of state; as the JonBenet Ramsey investigative team is well aware, the case includes aspects of possible mind-control and cult activity.
The name "JonBenet" is very similar to an Illuminati term for the Devil - "Jonbet".
As usual, the corporate media has gone to great lengths to divert public awareness in the Ramsey case away from the possibility that this was a satanic ritual sacrifice, not the work of a lone intruder.
There are anomalies in the case which have been ignored by the media establishment: forensic evidence of regular sexual penetration by a male adult, failure to notify the public the nature of the biological fluid found on and near JonBenets body, and the remarkable similarity between the ransom note and the handwriting of John Ramsey.
And what about the claims of investigative journalists that John Ramseys company, Access Graphics (now owned by Lockheed Martin) was linked to the kiddieporn industry, and had alleged connections with Amsterdams red light area? Was it just a coincidence that the Ramseys much publicized press conference was held on May 1st, which is Beltaine in the occult calendar? Or that the childs death occurred on a night that the Illuminati conduct their sacrificial ritual known as The Last Bulb on the Christmas Tree?
And what about the claims of investigative journalists that John Ramseys company, Access Graphics (now owned by Lockheed Martin) was linked to the kiddieporn industry, and had alleged connections with Amsterdams red light area?
Was it just a coincidence that the Ramseys much publicized press conference was held on May 1st, which is Beltaine in the occult calendar?
Or that the childs death occurred on a night that the Illuminati conduct their sacrificial ritual known as The Last Bulb on the Christmas Tree?
The close relationship between the Boulder District Attorney and the law firm hired by the Ramseys, eventually forced the Boulder police to withhold evidence from the D.A.s office.
Shortly afterwards, the police computers were hacked into. It is commonplace for the Illuminati to create mother / daughter mind-controlled teams of sex slaves for the purpose of entrapping public figures. Patsy Ramsey appears to exhibit symptoms of alter personality switching during media interviews. Could it possibly be that Mrs. Ramsey and her daughter were both mind-controlled sex slaves? If so, Mrs. Ramseys front alter genuinely would have no knowledge of the crime. In her book, mind-controlled sex slave Cathy OBrien describes how she and her infant daughter were sexually abused by American presidents and congressional members (other mind-control survivors also name the same alleged perpetrators).
She alleges that one of her mind-control handlers was one of congresss most powerful political figures - West Virginia senator Robert Byrd (left).(8) Senator Byrd has also been named as a driving force behind the creation of admitted satanist Lt. Colonel Michael Aquinos Temple of Set. Aquino has been a member of the Psychological Warfare Division of the Defense Intelligence Agency.
An advocate of mind-control, Aquino wrote an article published in the Military Review, in which he stated:
" ...we shall create MindWar. The term is harsh and fear-inspiring, and so it should be: It is a term of attack and victory... ".
Aquino (right) was also the focus of alleged child molestation at San Franciscos Presidio Child Development Center; he was not charged following military intervention in the case, despite the fact that children accurately described his bedroom. On the night of August 9th 1991, investigative journalist Danny Casolaro purportedly committed suicide by performing the miraculous feat of slashing his wrists after severing the tendons in both arms. Casolaro had been in the process of writing a book about government corruption and had informed colleagues that one chapter involved Senator Byrd. Allegedly, he had arranged a clandestine meeting with one of Byrds staff members that evening. Irresponsible journalism is reprehensible, but in view of the botched Ramsey case, the above-described allegations of possible misconduct by Byrd, and the fact that Patsy Ramsey is a former Miss West Virginia, has anyone investigated whether a mind-control connection exists between Mrs. Ramsey and the senator, and whether any public figures were at the Ramsey residence at the time of the murder? Operation Greenstar is a mind-control program in which the victim is given a screen memory to create the impression of being abducted by extraterrestrials. This is accomplished by placing on the victims head a helmet containing electromagnetic solenoids tuned to a 4 Hz. frequency.
The solenoids are connected to a computer which projects into the percipients mind a graphics program depicting an alien abduction scenario. Such victims are subjected to Janus end times programming, and will be activated to create civil unrest shortly prior to declaration of a state of national emergency. Hypnotic regression as practiced by UFO support groups, only serves to reinforce the mind-control programs.
A number of day-care centers are used for both mind-control programming and satanic ritual abuse purposes, while a major religious organization serves as a front for the programming of schoolyard shooters. Some children of Illuminati parents are genetically-bred to be outstanding psychics. These victims are trained to perform as psychic assassins, possessing the capability of causing cardiac arrest or neural dysfunction. Former Soviet Premier Yuri Andropov was assassinated in this manner. A major psy-ops team is known as Janus; it is directed from the NATO headquarters in Belgium. Another high-level psy-ops assassination team is composed of very intelligent African-American women, known as the Black Angels. It is estimated that there are between two and ten million mind-controlled victims in the United States. Victims are usually programmed to slash their arms if their front alter personality begins to recover memories of the programming; this inhibits further memory recovery (victims occasionally begin to recover memories if their programmer or handler dies).
Buford Furrow, recently arrested for the shooting at the Jewish Community Center, in Granada Hills, California, was admitted to a psychiatric institution last year after slashing his arm in several places, consistent with mind control activity. Significantly, a National Security Council E. Mail address for a Buford Furrow at McChord Air Force base was deleted the day after his arrest. His father is a retired career Air Force Master-Sergeant. Federal prosecutors have announced that they will seek the death penalty against Mr. Furrow.
"Based on the facts as we know them to be, it is our view that the death penalty is warranted in this case," remarked U.S. Attorney Alejandro N. Mayorkas.
The facts, Mr. Mayorkas, are that Buford Furrow has exhibited the classic symptoms of a mind-controlled victim.
If you havent bothered to ascertain that this is so, or if you subjected the accused to a psychiatric exam by a person possessing a high security clearance (usually the case in such shootings or bombings) then you and your cohorts are incompetent, and should resign. If, as the writer believes, the accused is indeed a mind-controlled assassin, and you are cognizant of the fact, then you are an accessory to murder. The more than one million people who will read this article in the newspaper and on the internet will be observing your actions. For the enlightenment of Mayorkas, and others of his bureaucratic ilk, perhaps it is timely to point out that the Illuminati has remained the overlords of humankind for millennia by virtue of the veil of extreme secrecy with which they surround themselves. Any person who incurs public exposure while performing an unlawful act on behalf of the dragon, invariably discover themselves experiencing the last day of the rest of their life. In order to condition the public into supporting stricter gun-control measures, mind-controlled children have been programmed to shoot classmates. One of the Columbine High-School shooters, Eric Harris, used to live at Plattsburg Air Force Base, in New York State, with his Air force officer father. At the age of ten, Harris allegedly used to complain to his friends that he was being drugged at the base.
This base, although officially closed, is known to possess an enormous underground facility, which allegedly is still being used as a mind-control programming center. One Columbine teacher has publicly stated that she was wounded by an adult male, not a student (intelligence information received by the writer claims that four adult gunmen were involved). One wonders why a contingent of Federal personnel purportedly visited the school the day prior to the massacre. Mind-control victims often display symptoms of obsessive compulsive disorder, resulting from prolonged trauma abuse, as is the case with Harris, which should have served as a red flag to members of the investigative team. Prosecutors who secure convictions in such cases, where evidence of mind-control exists, are either incompetent researchers or complicit members of a conspiracy; the principal function of a prosecutor is to insure that justice is served, not to obtain a guilty verdict at any cost. Since space is limited, perhaps an overview of the Jonestown massacre will serve to depict the massive extent to which mind-control is used by corrupt Federal agencies.
Jonestown was a CIA experiment to determine whether it was possible to establish a large mind-controlled slave labor force. Jim Jones was a CIA operative and former Housing Commissioner for San Francisco. Ukiah District Attorney Tim Stone was assigned the task of procuring state mental patients and transferring their guardianship to the Peoples Temple. Assisting Jones was former police chief Dan Mitrioni, a contract CIA operative, who previously had instructed Brazilian and Bolivian security personnel in advanced torture interrogation techniques. In 1973, CIA operative George Blakey made the initial $650,000 deposit for the Guyana Peoples Temple property. Blakeys father-in law, Dr. Lawrence Layton, was the director of an U.S. Army Chemical Warfare research laboratory, which received a contract to conduct research appertaining to the MK-ULTRA mind-control project.
Contrary to media reports, very few of the Jonestown victims died from poisoned Kool-Aid. The majority of the victims were allegedly sprayed with a sleeping gas discharged from helicopters, prior to being shot or strangled (reminiscent of the Arab / Israeli Six Days War, in which Arab troops were subjected to aerial spraying of L.S.D. by Israeli aircraft, prior to being bombed). Prior to the purchase of the Guyana property, the entire staff of the Mendocino State Mental Hospital were dismissed and replaced by Jim Joness personnel. According to mind-control survivors, Josef Mengele programmed inmates there, at that time period. One member of Joness staff at Mendocino was allegedly the mother of O.J. Simpson. Perhaps this explains why one psychologist, very experienced in observing mind-control survivors, noted that during Simpsons trial, he displayed symptoms of alter-personality switching. Simpsons trial, which served to polarize the races, left more questions than answers. Why wasnt the name of Al Cowlings employer, the notorious drug dealer Joey Ippolito, not mentioned during the trial, particularly since he was an associate of a known CIA and Guatemalan death squad hit-man, whose M.O. is to torture his victims with a stiletto prior to slashing their throats?
Ippolito "escaped" from a minimum security prison only three weeks prior to the murder of Simpsons ex-wife. A Loyola-Marymount University law professor has publicly claimed that in addition to having a Simpson blood sample on his person for three hours, a detective also obtained a sample of Nicole Brown-Simpsons blood from the morgue and had it in his possession for 24 hours. Why was blood not observed on Simpsons socks until several days after the murder? Was the cut on Simpsons left index finger the result of mind-control memories? If the cut was incurred during the slayings, why did his left-hand bloody glove not have a corresponding cut? Former Florida State Attorney Dick Gerstein was investigated for allegedly laundering drug money (Ippolitos?). He was a partner in Centrust Savings and Loan; his partners were BCCI (a CIA money-laundering facility) and Simpson attorney F. Lee Bailey.
Curiously, when Ippolito was charged with cocaine distribution, his attorney was Edward Medvene - the same attorney retained by Fred Goldman in his wrongful-death suit against Simpson (Fred Goldman apparently was unaware that Simpson allegedly had transferred much of his wealth to an offshore bank on the island of Sark).
Centrust S&L made a multi-million dollar loan to a felon associated with the Kemper Marley crime syndicate. Marley, a former crony of Al Capone (above), employed the legal services of the current Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, William Rendquist (below).
In 1948, fifty two employees of Marleys Arizona liquor monopoly, United Liquor, were jailed for liquor violations, including Uniteds general manager Jim Hensley - the father-in-law of presidential candidate Senator John McCain, who inherited Hensleys beer distributorship.
After the Simpson trial, jurors claimed that juror Tracy Hampton had sat for hours staring at a blank television screen and claiming to hear voices.
This could well have resulted from directed-energy mind-control equipment placed inside of a TV set located in the jurors sequestered living quarters - a perfect way to rig a trial outcome in order to foment racial polarization. After her jury dismissal, Ms. Hampton allegedly tried to commit suicide by eating broken glass. If Mr. Simpson is a mind-control victim, presumably he would have been programmed in his youth after displaying potential as a ball player. Determining the outcome of football games for gambling purposes is easy, if some of the players are programmed multiples.
Future Illuminati Plans Symbology plays a major role in the mindset of the Illuminati. Hence the great emphasis placed upon Jerusalem, even though the Illuminati membership is Luciferian, not Islamic, Jewish or Christian. It is the Illuminati intent to destroy the al Aqsa Mosque - the third holiest structure in Islam, which sits atop the Temple Mount, by using scalar technology to activate the seismic fault which traverses the Mount of Olives.
According to Judaic holy law, it is forbidden for Jews to set foot on the Temple Mount until it has been purified by sprinkling the ashes of a pure-bred red heifer over the site. Such an heifer has been genetically-bred for the purpose and was born four years ago. It has to be ritually sacrificed no later than October, 2000. Contrary to public knowledge, construction of the new Jerusalem Temple was commenced two decades ago. For those who have ears to hear with, do not seek it on the Temple Mount. After the Dome of the Rock has been destroyed and the red heifers ashes sprinkled, the Ark of the Covenant will be placed in the Holy of Holies of the new temple. It is currently kept at a subterranean location in Egypt. It does not contain Mosaic Tablets, but rather an object not of this world (the ark at Aksum, in Ethiopia, is a fake). British and American Illuminati factions have trained Islamic terrorists in Britain and placed them under the control of Osama bin Laden, prior to sending them to the Russian province of Chechnya and proclaiming independence of the province from Russia. This is in order for Britain and America to exploit the vast oil and mineral wealth of the Caspian region. Russia is scheduled to retaliate by launching a nuclear first strike upon America, thus facilitating the Illuminati goal of depopulating America.
Vladimir Putin, who has terminal cancer, according to an informed Russian military medical source, was appointed Head of State in order to serve as a scapegoat if the nuclear attack plan goes awry. Prior to the planned nuclear attack, the Illuminati plans to foment widespread civil unrest against governmental corruption in the American midwest, as a pretext for imposing a state of national emergency. Since Asian and Hispanic Americans are considered the most malleable, most Blacks and Caucasians are to be incarcerated in concentration camps or executed.
Those members of the military, law enforcement and intelligence communities who treasonously have assisted the Illuminati in the aim of establishing a global government are to be summarily executed for disloyalty, just as Saddam Hussein executed the army officers who assisted his coup detat, for who feels secure when surrounded by people who have committed treason? The Illuminati plan also calls for the execution of major political figures who have assisted them, also the Kolob-worshipping Navoo Prophets, the latter being known in high Illuminati circles as the Council of Twelve plus One.
This scenario is intended to culminate in the establishment of a totalitarian global government circa 2010, after which time, the surviving members of humanity are to be reduced to a life of mediaeval serfdom. There are some wild cards in this scenario:
The writer believes that Russia will double-cross the Illuminati and attempt to become the dominant world power by virtue of its supremacy in geophysical warfare technology. There is a powerful anti-Illuminati faction in Japan which might result in a Japan / China military alliance. Also we must not overlook the fact that within the private sector exists the technology to manufacture endothermic beam weaponry and radio-frequency weaponry (the Illuminati has no meaningful defense against radio-frequency weapons, which have the capability of destroying computer circuitry from a considerable distance).
The writer believes that Russia will double-cross the Illuminati and attempt to become the dominant world power by virtue of its supremacy in geophysical warfare technology.
There is a powerful anti-Illuminati faction in Japan which might result in a Japan / China military alliance.
Also we must not overlook the fact that within the private sector exists the technology to manufacture endothermic beam weaponry and radio-frequency weaponry (the Illuminati has no meaningful defense against radio-frequency weapons, which have the capability of destroying computer circuitry from a considerable distance).
Mind-control programming has an unfortunate tendency to fail at inopportune moments; we must therefore consider the 24,000 mind-controlled United Nations troops, who are currently stationed at a covert moon base, as another possible wild card.(10) In concluding this article, it is well to remember that we are all to some extent brainwashed, thanks to Illuminati-controlled social engineering projects, which employ the media to implant belief structures which serve the interests of the military / industrial complex.(11)
The omissions evident, in Peter Jenningss book, unwitting or not, go to serve this purpose. Our Illuminati overlords regard us as sheep who deserve to be fleeced; perhaps this is as it should be, since most adult members of the populace are too politically-indifferent, or spineless, to rectify matters. English Common Law used to demand that members of the public were required to raise a hue and cry, if they had knowledge of criminal activity.
What are you going to do about it, dear reader?
NOTES & REFERENCES
1. Random House, Inc., New York, N.Y., 1999. 2. FDR and his cabinet were Standard Oil puppets, Nelson Rockefeller even being appointed as Coordinator of Strategic Defense. Wanting Japan to abort its intention of declaring war upon the Soviets (where the Rockefellers had vested oil and lumber interests) J.P. Morgans nephew was appointed Ambassador to Japan in order to induce Japanese warlords to attack the USA instead. Most of the Japanese weaponry and munitions were supplied by American companies. In November 1941, correspondent Joe Lieb was notified by his friend, Secretary of State Cordell Hull, that Pearl Harbor would be attacked on December 7th. Lieb leaked the news to the U. P. news service. Only the Honolulu Advertiser bothered to publish the news. Deliberately kept in the dark about the planned attack, Admiral Kimmel and General Short later were made patsies and relieved of their commands. In fairness to surviving family relatives, this disgrace should be expunged from the military records of these two gentlemen. The treasonous FDR died earlier than is generally known and was replaced by doubles, including a movie actor named Captain Jack Young (Winthrop Rutherfurd may have been another double). No autopsy was performed and the honor guard was ordered to shoot anyone attempting to open the sealed casket. In his memoirs, Roosevelts son, Elliott, stated that Stalin had informed him that his father had been assassinated by "the Churchill gang". 3. In 1933, three American Nazis - Helen and E. Clifton Barton and Lawrence Echevarria, incorporated the Internal Revenue Tax and Audit service as a private Delaware corporation, for the purpose of establishing a monopoly tax collection agency on behalf of the government. Tax money was covertly conduited to Germany to fund the Nazi military build-up. In 1936, the treasonous company became unincorporated, in order to disguise its private ownership, and changed its name to the Internal Revenue Service. The Bureau of Internal Revenue, created in 1862 to collect excise taxes, was abolished in 1953. 4. The controlling stockholder in the French multi-media giant Hachette Industries, is Saddam Hussein. By providing a buffer between Iran and Syria, he is regarded as an asset by NATO, which is why he is permitted to remain in power. More than 100 Iraqi terrorist cells armed with anthrax are known to exist in the USA, awaiting payback time. Most of the cell members are women who lost loved ones in the war. Pentagon researchers have determined that olive leaf extract is the best anthrax antidote. John Kennedy Jr.s magazine George is owned by Saddam Hussein. 5. The leader of the civilized group of global flood survivors who introduced the plough to the Sumerian hunter-gatherers became known as Tas Mikigal, meaning "Lord of Agriculture". With the passage of time, he became deified by the superstitious populous as "Lord of the Air". To them, it implied that he must have possessed the capability of flight, which suggested that he had wings. He was depicted in this form on Phoenician coins of the 5th century B.C., and on early pre-Roman era British coins. We know him as Archangel Michael, celebrating Harvest Festival on Michaelmas Sunday. The Jews remained unacquainted with angelology until they were taken into captivity by the Babylonians. 6. Blue plasma was observed emanating from the top of the Murrah Building in Oklahoma City immediately prior to the blast. Simultaneously, computer wiring in adjacent buildings burned out. This suggests that a Tesla-type geophysical device was used to momentarily lift the building off its foundations, in order to detonate containers of an unstable mercuric explosive attached to structural columns. Timothy McVeigh is almost certainly a mind-controlled patsy, which explains why he failed to resist arrest, despite being armed. 7. Investigative journalist Alex Constantine has performed a sterling service by exposing the role of intelligence agencies in mind-control activities. Virtual Government, Feral House, Venice, California, 1997. 8. OBrien, C. and Phillips, M., Trance Formation of America, Reality Marketing, Inc., Las Vegas, California, 1995. 9. Springmeier, F. and Wheeler, C., Deeper Insights into the Illuminati Formula, 916, Unn Ave., Oregon City, Oregon, USA. These two volumes are requisite reading for any serious investigator of mind-control activity and ritual sexual abuse, and should be read by every member of law enforcement. 10. Endothermic beam weapons generate an implosion at a quarter wavelength distance and possess the capability of flash-freezing entire cities with power supplied by a dArsonval resonant over-unity system. 11. The manner in which the Illuminati social engineers use the media, in order to implant a favorable opinion of the military / industrial complex into the consciousness of the public, is exemplified by the Bob Hope Christmas Show. Performed at military facilities several weeks prior to Christmas, so that Hope was able to be home for Christmas, the show was aired by NBC television. NBC is owned by General Electric - one of the nations largest manufacturers of military weapons. It is the writers understanding that Mr. Hope is a major NBC stockholder and an asset of British Intelligence. He allegedly has an office at NBCs Burbank studio. According to mind-control survivor Brice Taylor, who claims to have been used as a sex slave by various prominent politicians, her slave handier was Bob Hope. Another mind-controlled sex slave survivor who has never heard of Brice Taylor, recently told this writer that her handler was Bob Hope. Ms. Taylors book "Thanks for the Memories", contains a wealth of mind-control information; it is obtainable from the Brice Taylor Trust, P.O.Box 655, Landrum, S.C. 29356. Price: $34.95, inc. s&h. Additional information appertaining to mind-control and Illuminati activities (including the assassination of Princess Diana) is available on the video An Interview with a Mother Goddess, and the book The Biggest Secret, by David lcke, both obtainable from Bookworld, ph.: 1 800 444 2524. The social mores of the public are significantly influenced by the content of movies (e.g. desensitization to violence). Always opportunistic, the Illuminati has a designated "A" list of major movie producers, actors, directors and agents. In order to remain at the pinnacle of their profession, these people attend mandatory seminars, at which a panel of Illuminati hacks reveal the type of movie content desired by the Illuminati social engineers. At a recent "A" list gathering held at an exclusive estate in Wyoming, the panel included several generals, a former Army Chief of Staff and two of Hollywoods best known directors - one Jewish , the other of Scottish descent, whose career has attained titanic proportions. Many cults are used in order to ensnare potential mind-control victims for use as ritual murder subjects. This was typified by the Solar Temple cult, which experienced 69 murders and suicides at its locations in Switzerland, France and Canada. A neo-templar cult, members included the head of the French Secret Service; its high priestess was Princess Grace of Monaco. Her death was not due to brake failure, as claimed by the media, and may have been a ritual murder (Princess Dianas murder occurred in the Pont dAlma tunnel - an ancient Illuminati sacrificial site, hence the Illuminati flaming torch symbol above the tunnel entrance). Princess Graces death may have been ordered because she knew too much about the fact that Monaco is a major heroin refining center. Significantly, her death occurred at a time known to Illuminati initiates as the "Feast of the Beast". Back to Top
1. Random House, Inc., New York, N.Y., 1999. 2. FDR and his cabinet were Standard Oil puppets, Nelson Rockefeller even being appointed as Coordinator of Strategic Defense. Wanting Japan to abort its intention of declaring war upon the Soviets (where the Rockefellers had vested oil and lumber interests) J.P. Morgans nephew was appointed Ambassador to Japan in order to induce Japanese warlords to attack the USA instead. Most of the Japanese weaponry and munitions were supplied by American companies. In November 1941, correspondent Joe Lieb was notified by his friend, Secretary of State Cordell Hull, that Pearl Harbor would be attacked on December 7th. Lieb leaked the news to the U. P. news service. Only the Honolulu Advertiser bothered to publish the news. Deliberately kept in the dark about the planned attack, Admiral Kimmel and General Short later were made patsies and relieved of their commands. In fairness to surviving family relatives, this disgrace should be expunged from the military records of these two gentlemen. The treasonous FDR died earlier than is generally known and was replaced by doubles, including a movie actor named Captain Jack Young (Winthrop Rutherfurd may have been another double). No autopsy was performed and the honor guard was ordered to shoot anyone attempting to open the sealed casket. In his memoirs, Roosevelts son, Elliott, stated that Stalin had informed him that his father had been assassinated by "the Churchill gang". 3. In 1933, three American Nazis - Helen and E. Clifton Barton and Lawrence Echevarria, incorporated the Internal Revenue Tax and Audit service as a private Delaware corporation, for the purpose of establishing a monopoly tax collection agency on behalf of the government. Tax money was covertly conduited to Germany to fund the Nazi military build-up. In 1936, the treasonous company became unincorporated, in order to disguise its private ownership, and changed its name to the Internal Revenue Service. The Bureau of Internal Revenue, created in 1862 to collect excise taxes, was abolished in 1953. 4. The controlling stockholder in the French multi-media giant Hachette Industries, is Saddam Hussein. By providing a buffer between Iran and Syria, he is regarded as an asset by NATO, which is why he is permitted to remain in power. More than 100 Iraqi terrorist cells armed with anthrax are known to exist in the USA, awaiting payback time. Most of the cell members are women who lost loved ones in the war. Pentagon researchers have determined that olive leaf extract is the best anthrax antidote. John Kennedy Jr.s magazine George is owned by Saddam Hussein. 5. The leader of the civilized group of global flood survivors who introduced the plough to the Sumerian hunter-gatherers became known as Tas Mikigal, meaning "Lord of Agriculture". With the passage of time, he became deified by the superstitious populous as "Lord of the Air". To them, it implied that he must have possessed the capability of flight, which suggested that he had wings. He was depicted in this form on Phoenician coins of the 5th century B.C., and on early pre-Roman era British coins. We know him as Archangel Michael, celebrating Harvest Festival on Michaelmas Sunday. The Jews remained unacquainted with angelology until they were taken into captivity by the Babylonians. 6. Blue plasma was observed emanating from the top of the Murrah Building in Oklahoma City immediately prior to the blast. Simultaneously, computer wiring in adjacent buildings burned out. This suggests that a Tesla-type geophysical device was used to momentarily lift the building off its foundations, in order to detonate containers of an unstable mercuric explosive attached to structural columns. Timothy McVeigh is almost certainly a mind-controlled patsy, which explains why he failed to resist arrest, despite being armed. 7. Investigative journalist Alex Constantine has performed a sterling service by exposing the role of intelligence agencies in mind-control activities. Virtual Government, Feral House, Venice, California, 1997. 8. OBrien, C. and Phillips, M., Trance Formation of America, Reality Marketing, Inc., Las Vegas, California, 1995. 9. Springmeier, F. and Wheeler, C., Deeper Insights into the Illuminati Formula, 916, Unn Ave., Oregon City, Oregon, USA. These two volumes are requisite reading for any serious investigator of mind-control activity and ritual sexual abuse, and should be read by every member of law enforcement. 10. Endothermic beam weapons generate an implosion at a quarter wavelength distance and possess the capability of flash-freezing entire cities with power supplied by a dArsonval resonant over-unity system. 11. The manner in which the Illuminati social engineers use the media, in order to implant a favorable opinion of the military / industrial complex into the consciousness of the public, is exemplified by the Bob Hope Christmas Show. Performed at military facilities several weeks prior to Christmas, so that Hope was able to be home for Christmas, the show was aired by NBC television. NBC is owned by General Electric - one of the nations largest manufacturers of military weapons. It is the writers understanding that Mr. Hope is a major NBC stockholder and an asset of British Intelligence. He allegedly has an office at NBCs Burbank studio. According to mind-control survivor Brice Taylor, who claims to have been used as a sex slave by various prominent politicians, her slave handier was Bob Hope. Another mind-controlled sex slave survivor who has never heard of Brice Taylor, recently told this writer that her handler was Bob Hope. Ms. Taylors book "Thanks for the Memories", contains a wealth of mind-control information; it is obtainable from the Brice Taylor Trust, P.O.Box 655, Landrum, S.C. 29356. Price: $34.95, inc. s&h. Additional information appertaining to mind-control and Illuminati activities (including the assassination of Princess Diana) is available on the video An Interview with a Mother Goddess, and the book The Biggest Secret, by David lcke, both obtainable from Bookworld, ph.: 1 800 444 2524. The social mores of the public are significantly influenced by the content of movies (e.g. desensitization to violence). Always opportunistic, the Illuminati has a designated "A" list of major movie producers, actors, directors and agents. In order to remain at the pinnacle of their profession, these people attend mandatory seminars, at which a panel of Illuminati hacks reveal the type of movie content desired by the Illuminati social engineers. At a recent "A" list gathering held at an exclusive estate in Wyoming, the panel included several generals, a former Army Chief of Staff and two of Hollywoods best known directors - one Jewish , the other of Scottish descent, whose career has attained titanic proportions. Many cults are used in order to ensnare potential mind-control victims for use as ritual murder subjects. This was typified by the Solar Temple cult, which experienced 69 murders and suicides at its locations in Switzerland, France and Canada. A neo-templar cult, members included the head of the French Secret Service; its high priestess was Princess Grace of Monaco. Her death was not due to brake failure, as claimed by the media, and may have been a ritual murder (Princess Dianas murder occurred in the Pont dAlma tunnel - an ancient Illuminati sacrificial site, hence the Illuminati flaming torch symbol above the tunnel entrance). Princess Graces death may have been ordered because she knew too much about the fact that Monaco is a major heroin refining center. Significantly, her death occurred at a time known to Illuminati initiates as the "Feast of the Beast".
