# The Fake Alien Invasion

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_fakeinvasion.htm

from UFO&AlienTextFiles Website
THIS INFORMATION COULD SAVE YOUR LIFE AND FREEDOM THE COMING "OFFICIAL" ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ALIEN PRESENCE ON EARTH WHY "STAR WARS", THE HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE, THE SUDDEN FALL OF COMMUNISM?
What is going on?
Something very sinister is going on. Polls reveal that over 90% of the Americans people believe in UFOs and 95% of these people believe the government is keeping this knowledge from the public.
But Why?
Are they afraid the people will panic if an "Official" announcement were made? Hardly. Such an announcement would create interest and excitement and many questions, particularly by the churches, but do not panic. Why then the continued cover-up? There is overwhelming evidence in the past several years from "Whistle Blowers" retired military officers who have finally said,
"Enough is enough! Its time the government told the people the truth!"
These officers, such as Navy Intelligence officer, William Cooper, Major John Lear (whose father founded the Lear Jet Corp.) and Air Force officer William English, to name but a few, have all discovered the truth, and at the risk of their very lives, are trying to alert YOU to the secrets behind the UFOs and the Alien Presence on this earth.
These people worked on the secret projects, had access to classified Top Secret documents , had seen with there own eyes captured aliens, or extraterrestrial entities, UFOs and the incredible technology they brought with them. Sightings of UFOs have been reported throughout history, and biblical and historic references to "Flaming Chariots" huge flying birds and odd looking beings predate our history by thousands of years. In the 1940s several alien spacecraft were recovered by the U.S. and other countries, along with a few dead aliens and one live one they named EBE (a name suggested by Dr. Vannever Bush and was short for Extraterrestrial Biological Entity). In 1953 astronomers discovered large objects in space which were moving toward earth.
At first they believed they were asteroids, but later evidence proved the objects could only be spaceships. Project Sigma and Project Plato intercepted alien radio communication and using the computer binary language, was able to arrange a landing that resulted in face-to-face contact with alien beings from another planet.
Meanwhile, a race of human-looking aliens contacted the U.S. Government, warning us that the aliens orbiting the equator were hostile beings from Orion.
These human-type aliens demanded we dismantle and destroy our nuclear weapons, that we were on a path of self-destruction and we must stop killing each other, stop polluting the earth, stop raping the earths natural resources and learn to live in harmony with one another. President Eisenhower rejected these demands. Later in 1954 the race of aliens, known as Greys, from Zeta Reticuli area in space, who had been orbiting the equator, landed at Holloman Air Force base.
They stated their planet was dying and needed quarters on earth to conduct genetic experiments that might allow their race to survive; this in exchange for certain technology.
President Eisenhower met with the aliens and a formal treaty was signed. The treaty stated the aliens would not interfere in our affairs and we would not interfere in theirs. We would keep their presence on earth secret; they would furnish us with advanced technology.
They could abduct humans on a limited basis for the purpose of medical examination and monitoring, with the stipulation that the humans would not be harmed, would be returned to their point of abduction, that the humans have no memory of the event. It was also agreed the alien bases would be constructed underground, beneath Indian reservations in the 4 corners area of Utah, New Mexico, Arizona and Colorado.
Another was to be constructed in Nevada in the area known as S-4, about 7 miles south of Area 51, known as Dreamland. A multi-billion dollar secret fund was organized and kept by the Military Office of the White House, supposedly to build secret underground sites for the President and the staff in case of military attacks. By secret Executive Memorandum, NSC5410, Eisenhower established a permanent committee known as "Majority Twelve" (MJ12) to oversee and conduct all covert activities with the aliens. This included FBI director J. Edgar Hoover and six leaders of the Council on Foreign Relations, known as the Wise Men and later others from the Trilateral Commission. George Bush, Gordon Dean, and Brzezinski were among them. A major finding of the commission was the aliens were using humans and animals for a source on glandular secretions, enzymes, hormonal secretions, blood and in horrible genetic experiments. The aliens explained these actions as necessary for their survival, that if their genetic structure were not improved, their race would cease to exist. The ruling powers decided that one means of funding the alien project was to corner the illegal drug market. A young ambitious member of the Council on Foreign Relations was approached. His name is George Bush who at the time was president and CEO of Zapata Oil Co. based in Texas.
Zapata Oil was experimenting with offshore oil drilling and it was arranged that the drugs could be shipped from South America to the offshore platforms by fishing boats, then transferred to the U.S. shore by normal transportation, thus avoiding search by customs agents. The plan worked better than anyone expected, and today the CIA controls all the worlds illegal drug markets. One should remember, it was George Bush who first started selling drugs to our children. The drug money was used to finance the deep underground alien bases. Conclusions: the Bilderburgers, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission are the SECRET GOVERNMENT and rule this nation through MJ-12 and the study group known as the Jason Society. Throughout history the aliens have manipulated and/or ruled the human race through various secret societies, religion and the occult. The CFR and the Trilateral Commission are in complete control of the alien technology and the nations economy. Eisenhower was the last president to know the entire overview of the alien problem.
Succeeding presidents were told only what MJ-12 wanted them to know, and it was NOT the truth.
MJ-12 presented each new president with a picture of a lost alien culture seeking to renew itself, build a home on this planet and shower us with gifts of technology. Each president has bought the story hook, line, and sinker. Meanwhile, innocent people continue to suffer unspeakable horrors at the hands of alien and human scientists who are engaged in barbarous research that would make the Nazis pale in comparison.
As if that is not enough, many people end up as food for the insatiable alien appetite for biological enzymes, hormonal secretions and blood. At least 1 in every 40 Americans have been implanted with alien devices that are used to control them if necessity calls. By 1989 over 3 million Greys are occupying these deep multi-level underground complexes.
Level 7 at Dulce is called "Nightmare Hall". They have welched on their agreement on abducting humans; today over 25 million citizens have been abducted and implanted, a literal army awaiting orders to march! (Whitley Strieber has written best selling on his personal experience as have many others).
For this reason other nations were informed. Within 5 months the communist monolith Russia was dismantled to unite with the U.S. and its technology to fight the invasion. The Hubble Space Telescope was created to keep a watchful eye on the invasion fleet; Star Wars technology has been developed to hopefully stop them in outer space before they can get to the earth. Today, the government is on the horns of a dilemma. Too may sources are releasing alien information. The public could get angry at continued secrecy. So MJ-12 plans soon to make an "Official" announcement, under controlled conditions, probably Area 51. Network TV will be called to meet the staged landing of the aliens, these being the Greys.
They will come bearing gifts, technology that supposedly will heal Cancer and AIDS, retard aging, etc. They will tell us they are saviors of humanity who have come to defend the earth against an invasion of man-eating aliens called Reptoids. This story is a LIE, they already work for the Reptoids!
Their plan is to unify the world into a One-world Government, a New World Order with the argument that only this can defeat the invasion by Reptoids. This is a trap to enslave the worlds population. Control will be accomplished through the money system, a universal currency controlled by certain international bankers, who for years have been lackeys of the aliens, who seized upon their greed and lust for wealth and power as a means to bring about their evil plan to control the earth.
(This also being the scenario predicted in the Bibles Book of Revelation wherein only those who accept the Mark of the Beast - the aliens being the Beast and the Mark being some sort of laser tattoo or Credit Card they will use -, which will allow people to buy and sell goods).
Those who do not accept this Mark must live outside the money system and survive somehow on their own, through barter etc. SO BE AWARE! ONLY YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF THIS FAKE INVASION AND FAKE RAPTURE CAN PREVENT IT FROM HAPPENING. DEMAND THE TRUTH FROM YOUR GOVERNMENT.
TELL THEM YOU KNOW ABOUT THE ALIENS AND THAT THERE ARE GOOD ALIENS AND BAD ALIENS AND THAT MJ-12 IS PROMOTING THE BAD ALIENS AND THE ONE WORLD GOVERNMENT THEY HOPE TO CONTROL. See also: Phil Schneiders lecture of 1995
Return to Temas / Exopolitica
Return to Temas / Vida Alienigena
Return to Earth and Celestial Conflicts
Return to Extraterrestrial False Flag Operation
