# The Obama's 'Dead Pool' - Deaths Connected to The Obama White House

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_obama163.htm

Last Updated December 12, 2013
from NachumList Website
LAST UPDATE - Loretta Fuddy - Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy dies in small plane crash; "Fuddy was at the center of controversy in the birth certificate controversy as she was the person who reportedly granted 'an exception' to Barack Obama, allegedly witnessing the copying of Obamas birth certificate and attested to its authenticity"
LAST UPDATE
- Loretta Fuddy -
Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy
dies in small plane crash;
"Fuddy was at the center of controversy
in the birth certificate controversy
as she was the person who reportedly
granted 'an exception' to Barack Obama,
allegedly witnessing the copying
of Obamas birth certificate
and attested to its authenticity"
Deaths connected to the Obama White House
Mama Lois" Anderson: 79, and her 52 year old daughter Zelda White: Two US women aid workers were shot dead in Nairobi in Kenya (2008) were the retired Presbyterian Church missionaries of Pennsylvania (USA), known to thousands of Africans. The suspected killers of the US women, who were travelling in a car with diplomatic license plates, allegedly shot dead by police later. They were well known for their work. There is speculation that they possibly had knowledge of the birth and care for Barack Obama in Kenya and were later murdered to cover the trail. When murdered, the Husband had his full wallet which the thieves/car jacker didn't take, and there was never a connection made to the said attackers the police later shot dead, but blamed for the double homicide/car jacking. Their church was burned in 2008, possibly to destroy any possible birth records there. Then police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali was later removed from office by Obama supported Kenyan strongman Odinga. All possible witnesses ended up dead, all possible records of the care of infant Obama burned in the church fire, and the public official responsible out of office. Lt. Col. Christopher Raible and Sgt. Bradley Atwell: Died in the Camp Bastion attack 3 days after the Benghazi attack Mohammed Bakhti: A prominent figure in Tunisia's Salafist movement has died nearly two months after launching a hunger strike following his arrest for an attack on the US embassy, his lawyer and the justice ministry have said. Jeff Joe Black: Found dead on a hiking trail from "blunt force trauma to the head": Chicago activist who claimed that Emmanuel was put into place in Chicago to oversee a coming false flag event Larry Bland and Nate Spencer: Two other black members of Trinity Church Murdered at the same time - Report: Mother Of Obama's Murdered Gay Lover Speaks Up -- With Video Andrew Breitbart - Died of a massive heart attack, walking outside late at night, alone, in the dark approximately one week before he was to produce tapes of Obama's extremist activities in college. More speculation: Breitbart: "Wait 'Til They See What Happens March 1st", Breitbart's Footage Shows Obama 'Palling Around' With Terrorists... Sheriff Joe Arpaio: I Spoke with Andrew Breitbart Shortly Before he Died ... .An Eyewitness Speaks Out About Andrew Breitbart's Death Scene... Breitbart's skin color described as bright red. ... Was Andrew Breitbart assassinated?...More murder speculation: Was Andrew Breitbart Murdered?... ... Coroner: Breitbart Died of Heart Failure...* Christopher Lasseter, Dissapears... witness to Breitbart's death vanishes -Follows suspicious demise of member of coroner's team (possibly in hiding to avoid reporters), .... Breitbart witness: He dropped like sack of bricks Describes 'thick white band' around forehead at death; Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Killed Breitbart and Clancy (story also linked here ); Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Had Breitbart and Clancy Killed; Brandon Walker interviews Doctor Jim Garrow, philanthropist and worker for one of the largest non-profit organizations on the planet to save female children from slaughter in China.. states he knows that President Obama ordered the murders of Tom Clancy and Andrew Breitbart (Audio) Steve Bridges Dies At 48 - Impersonator Who Offended 0bama ...Steve Bridges as President Obama - August 2011 ....It appeared that he died of natural causes...: On the Steve Bridges website, they are now calling his death 'an accident"...that the probable cause of death was due to "upper airway anaphylaxis", caused by a severe allergic reaction.. --- CSI Show: Murder by anaphalaxis?... A real life example of possible murder by anaphalaxis Tom Clancy Dies at 66; actual list of cause of death on his autopsy, cause of death unknown; Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Killed Breitbart and Clancy- Dr. Garrow states President Obama had Tom Clancy killed as well and noted that it takes 5 days for plant toxins and most poisons to break down and leave no traces in the human body. Amazingly enough, or coincidentally, the doctors did not perform an autopsy on Tom Clancys body for 5 days. (story also linked here) Robin Copeland, 46, 11/4/2011: former Energy Department official who took part in several significant disarmament programs, died suddenly Michael Cormier - respected forensic technician for the Los Angeles County Coroner died under suspicious circumstances at his North Hollywood home April 20, the same day Andrew Breitbarts cause of death was finally made public. Medical examiners in Los Angeles are investigating the possible poisoning death... .Conspiracy theorists cry foul after Andrew Breitbart's 'coroner' dies of arsenic poisoning- ....Police Debunk Theories Linking Breitbart, L.A. Coroner Tech Deaths; No Answers in Death of Technician Linked to Andrew Breitbart: Killed by high amounts of arsinic in his system; Breitbart's Coroner Murdered. News From LA Madelyn Payne Dunham: Obama's grandmother, died 2 days before the general election. Flew up to see her for one hour - alone. No records. Cremated immediately, ashes dispersed. BEVERLY ECKERT, Continental Flight Victim, Was 9/11 Widow (VIDEO, SLIDESHOW), was at the White House with Barack Obama, part of a meeting the president had with relatives of those killed in the 2001 attacks Extortion 17: On 6 August 2011, a U.S. Boeing CH-47 Chinook military helicopter, call sign Extortion 17, was shot down while transporting a quick reaction force attempting to reinforce an engaged unit of Army Rangers in Wardak province, west of Kabul, Afghanistan The resulting crash killed all 38 people on board25 American special operations personnel, five United States Army National Guard and Army Reserve crewmen, seven Afghan commandos, and one Afghan interpreteras well as a U.S. military working dog. It is considered the worst loss of U.S Military life in the Afghanistan campaign, surpassing Operation Red Wings in 2005. There were 15 Navy SEAL's killed; Afghanistan's Benghazi: The Shoot-Down of Extortion 17; TrentoVision 5.9.13 - Navy SEAL Extortion 17 EXPOSED - Obama Failures; Obama increased special op's missions from an average of 56 a month to 334 per month (statement begins at 26 minute mark of video); Afghan Benghazi: Extortion 17, Betraying Seal Team 6;; Navy SEAL's father: Obama sent my son to his death Tells Michael Savage 'they knew something was up'; Extortion 17! Mother of slain SEAL on Biden: "He should be in prison for high crimes and treason."; Families suspect SEAL Team 6 crash was inside job on worst day in Afghanistan ; Navy warrior's quick cremation deepens mystery of Chinook disaster in Afghanistan; The Shocking True Story of Extortion 17 as Told by a Navy SEAL's Father; Extortion 17, The Deadliest Day in the War on Terror; SEAL's Parents: Obama's Rules Of Engagement Killing Our Troops Loretta Fuddy: -Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy dies in small plane crash; 'Fuddy was at the center of controversy in the birth certificate controversy as she was the person who reportedly granted "an exception" to Barack Obama, allegedly witnessing the copying of Obamas birth certificate and attested to its authenticity'; Health director who approved Obama birth certificate dies in plane crash Bechir Gholli. Student also arrested for attack on embassy Bill Gwatney, a close friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton and a Clinton super delegate at an upcoming convention in Denver and was fatally shot in 2008. Shooter had a post-it note with a mystery phone number. Did Obama Assassinate Clinton delegates? Bill Gwatney and Stephanie Tubbs Jones? Video: Bill Gwatney Murder Linked to Obama Lieutenant Quarles Harris Jr.- A key witness in a federal probe into passport information stolen from the State Department was fatally shot in front of a District church. Obama's Passport Breach: Unanswered Questions, and an Unsolved Murder: Harris worked for a security firm run by John Brennan, later to be a terrorism advisor to Obama. Listed as a detail in Youtube video "Shocking Secrets and Verifiable Facts about Barack Obama the MSM Refuses to Report" (at approx. 22 minutes in the video); Was an employee of John Brennan when murdered. John Brennan confirmed to head CIA Andy P. Hart: Guantanamo attorney dead in apparent suicide....Hart was assigned to defend Mohammed Rahim al-Afghani, one of 16 detainees at Guantanamo which the US government has designated as "high-value" Michael Hastings: Rolling Stone Journalist, Author Believed to be Dead in Hollywood Crash... known for his interview of Gen. Stanley McCrystal: Michael Hastings death: Coroner still hasn't ID'd badly burned victim: Picture of the burned out car; autopsy results will take weeks; Video report .. was covering a story about the defense dept. and Hollyood... nervous wreck; Michael Hastings, journalist who helped bring down US general, dies at 33; WikiLeaks Claims Michael Hastings Told Them FBI Was Investigating Him Hours Before He Died; Hastings' death in fiery car crash is just the latest in a growing list of dead investigative journos; Michael Hastings' Chilling Final Story... - ->"Why Democrats Love to Spy on Americans"; Michael Hastings researching Jill Kelley case before death; Hastings "Boston Brakes" Killing a Warning?; FBI says journalist Michael Hastings was not under investigation; Michael Hastings "CAUGHT ON TAPE" Running Red-Light Seconds Before Crash; Journalist Michael Hastings Dies in Fiery Crash / Hollywood RAW FOOTAGE; Hastings Sent Colleagues Email Hours Before Crash; Was Michael Hastings' Car Hacked? Richard Clarke Says It's Possible ; Journalist Michael Hastings' Body Cremated by Authorities Against Family's Wishes (Video); Hackers Reveal Nasty New Car Attacks--With Me Behind The Wheel (Video); MICHAEL HASTINGS CRASH CAUGHT ON SURVEILLANCE CAMERA; Bush advisor: Hastings crash 'consistent with a car cyberattack'; Group sues FBI for records after Michael Hastings' mysterious death; Report: Michael Hastings Was Investigating CIA Director John Brennan; CIA Director Brennan Confirmed as Reporter Michael Hastings Next Target; Coroner Classifies Michael Hastings' Death As Accidental; Coronor: Drugs in Hastings' system. Was Bipolar; Rolling Stone journalist feared prior to crash his car was tampered with: Report; Mystery grows: Journalist died prepping Obama exposé Major probe tied to agent suspected of sanitizing president's passport records; Who Killed Michael Hastings? Hazem: 'Benghazi attack suspect' dies in Cairo shootout Barnaby Jack: Hacker found dead days before he was to demonstrate how to hack a pacemaker Stephanie Tubbs Jones: found brain dead in 2008. Democratic Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Cleveland, a super delegate and one of Hillary Clintons most prominent black supporters, was found in her car unconscious Also: Did Obama Assassinate Clinton Delegates? Additional: Hollywood Producer Bettina Viviano: Bill Clinton Directly Told Me Barack Obama Not Eligible - ....Caucus death threats (audio)... also reported by Jerome Corsi at WND: Hillary supporter's untold Obama horror stories Allegations of intimidation, manipulation, sudden death Christopher Kelly - Committed suicide, under pressure to testify against former Gov. Rod Blagojevich; Christopher Kelly Case Round-Up David Koschman, Mudered in a Chicago Rush Street brawl by Richard J. R.J. Vanecko, a nephew of Mayor Daley and White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley- Homicide case involving Daley nephew closed without charges , Witness to Killing Involving Daley Nephew: Deceased Didn't Start It The Krim Children: CNBC Execs Children Murdered, 1 Day After CNBC Reports $43 Trillion Bankster Lawsuit; Police: Nanny stabbed herself upon mother's arrival; Screen Shot of original CNBC Article: Another source for article: ...Targets of Spire Law Group; Law Suit Documents; Book; "Bankster Chronicles" Kam Kuwata - was found dead inside his Venice home after friend concerned that they had not heard from him for a few days alerted police. Political consultant in California. Democratic insider. Possibly the Obama consultant referred to in the Ulsterman Report: Alledgedly viewed bizarre drug induced behavior from Obama during the the 2008 campaign.: "The Troubling Timeline".... The Death of a Political Operative The Troubling Timeline (UPDATED) Chris Kyle: Author of "American Sniper" among the dead at Rough Creek; Former Navy SEAL & 'American Sniper' Author Chris Kyle Reportedly Killed at TX Lodge; Deadliest sniper in U.S. military history is 'shot and killed point- blank by veteran suffering from PTSD' at Texas gun range; Conspiracy? Chris Kyle The Third High Profile Firearms Business Owner Killed in Past Month, Along With 30 SEALs The Past Four Years; Suspicions Raised After Deaths of Three Firearms Experts; Murdered Navy SEAL Was Obama Gun Control Foe;Revealed: Marine who 'killed' famous sniper threatened to 'blow his brains out and kill his family months before shooting two men at gun range'; Obama Has Yet To Acknowledge Death Of Legendary Seal Sniper Chris Kyle (2/13/13); Chris Kyle Widow: Former Navy SEAL 'Died Because Somebody Wanted to Kill Him' Robert McKeon: founder of private-equity firm Veritas Capital, dies Sept. 10, 2012 of suicide; General Dynamics bought company in August 2011 to expand influence into Obamacare IT Marco McMillian: Mississippi's first gay mayoral candidate, 34, 'was beaten and burned' before his body was found dumped on a riverbank. Victim of a hate crime? Pictured with Obama. Another black and gay associate of Obama murdered. (see Nachumlist file Is Obama Gay? ) Stefanie Moses: NYPD sergeant photographed with Obama at 9/11 ceremony....found dead in apparent suicide: -----Face of the NYPD...commits suicide on Long Island after fighting with her girlfriend; NYPD Sgt. Stephanie Moses On Meeting Pres. Obama John Noveske; the owner of Noveske Rifleworks. Vehicle run off the road - Two gun makers killed in two days, and no answers (Photos) Renee L Abena Obama: baby girl Born on October 31, 2004. The infant died less than two months later on December 25, 2004. "..the death was not reported by any hospital in the State of Maryland, but by a funeral home (indicated by the SSDI code "72"). BHOs biographies do not report the death of an infant in 2004, yet here was a baby girl who bore his last name--and the initial of his grandmothers middle name--Madelyn "Lee" Dunham. A search of the Social Security Death Index produced "No Results," though a genealogical index at WorldVitalRecords.com produced a Social Security number: "215-71-0752." From: "Who was Renee L. Abena Obama?" Alex Okrent: -Apparently found deat at Obama's campaign headquarters in Chicago. Witnesses say he collapsed, found dead after. Okrent had long been a staffer back the Obama 2004 U.S. senate campaign, on staff for eight years. Parents immediately say the cause of death was "heart attack", but no autopsy was yet performed. Medical examiner said the cause of death was "inconclusive". Internet recornds have been scrubbed. Twitter account timeline also makes no mention of his work for Obama: Okrent Twitter file (on Twitter). - Speculation as to whether he was a witness to an Obama gay connection: Who Is Dead Obama Staffer Alex Okrent? Youtube video: Who is Dead Obama Staffer Alex Okrent? Part 1 ... ... - Part 2; Autopsy Inconclusive for Obama Campaign Worker Who Collapsed at Chicago Campaign HQ; Gay opinion piece...-Alex Okrent: Equality is a Moral Equivalent; What Do Colorado Shooter James Holmes And Obama Staffer Alex Okrent Have In Common?....no digital footprint on the internet; Was Obama Staffer Alex Okrent Murdered Because he was Going to Expose Obama's Anti-Israel Ties? Donald A. Perry: Chick-fil-As public relations director dead of heart attack: Is Rahm Emanuel bullying Chick-fil-A over gay marriage?: Emanuel goes after Chick-fil-A for boss anti-gay views; Rahm: Chick-fil-A Values Are Not Chicago Values; Rahm backs down: We never said wed block Chick-fil-A from Chicago, says spokesman Albert Peterson: Wealthy Defense Contractor commits suicide, kills family; Man Kills His Entire Family, Feared Obama Would Get Re-Elected; Pictured: 'Beautiful' family slain hours after church by 'mentally ill father who was tormented by the prospect of Obama winning the election''He said he wanted to expose something at work. He also got the impression at work, that if they didn't vote for Obama and get him elected, they would lose their jobs,' " (See Obama and Your Prvacy- Nachumlist file) Rafael Prieto: Secret service apparent suicide under investigation: D.C., police are investigating the apparent suicide of a U.S. Secret Service supervisory agent assigned to President Obama's security detail. -Was under investigation for going to prostitutes; Secret Service agent kills self amid affair probe....Prietos apparent cause of death was carbon monoxide poisoning Keith Ratliff; ..was well known for a series of videos he produced on Youtube, known as "FPSRussia," in which various high-powered firearms were demonstrated. Found with a single shot in the head - Two gun makers killed in two days, and no answers (Photos); Partner YouTube video-maker FPSRussia Home Raided by ATF Eva Rausing: Found dead with no cause of death yet established. Her husband has been suspected as the killer. Rausing's family says she was at Occidental College at the same time as Obama. "Family of tragic Tetra Pak wife Eva Rausing reveal she began dabbling with 'hard drugs' while at the same college as Barack Obama as husband is arrested for murder"... Suspected cause of death from drug overdose John McCarthy Roll: - was the Chief Judge for the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, murdered by the same gunman attacking Gabrielle Giffords. Theory that Roll's prelimiary ruling on "United States of America v. $333,520.00 in United States Currency et al (Case Number: 4:2010cv00703 Filed: November 30, 2010) was cause for the assassination and that the shooter used the mass shooting as a cover for the government. - Claim: Giffords hit a planned assassination: Judge Roll real target; Judge John Roll - Wake Up Tucson Michael Scott - Although Chicago school board president Michael Scott's death had been ruled a suicide by the Cook County medical examiner's office, Chicago police characterized the case as a death investigation, and have not concluded that Scott's death was a suicide- was subpoenaed to testify before a federal grand jury looking into the admissions practices of Chicago's elite schools. -also was under scrutiny over Olympics-related real estate dealings Navy SEAL Commander Job Price, 42: US Navy SEAL commander dies in Afghanistan: suicide -----SEAL Team Four commander in Afghanistan 'commits suicide' as body of married father is found shot dead: Rumor?- Clinton Injured, US Navy Seal Killed In Secret US Mission To Iran; State Department Denies Hillary Clinton Injured in Plane Crash ... but- ABC News Report on Emergency Landing of a US Plane in Iran 16 days earlier; US Navy Seal Commander, Who Killed Osama Bin Laden, Commits 'Apparent Suicide In Afghanistan SEAL Team 6: Helicoptor shot down by terrorists. Possibly given location by infiltrators. Obama rules of engagement possibly lead to deaths. Father of fallen SEAL begs for military officer to tell the truth about "criminal" rules of engagement; The deaths of Seal Team Six ...who never would fly an entire company in one helicopter alone. UNBELIEVABLE: 'More Than 20 Navy SEALS From The Unit That Killed Osama Bin Laden' Die In Helicopter Crash; 31 US troops, mostly elite Navy SEALs, killed in Afghanistan 7 Afghan commandos also die in attack; SEALs were from same unit but not same team that killed Osama bin Laden; Navy SEAL Team 6 Families To Reveal Government's Culpability In Death Of Their Sons; OUTRAGE! Obama Administration Allowed Radical Cleric to Curse US Navy SEAL Heroes at Funeral Services (Video); TrentoVision 5.9.13 - Navy SEAL Extortion 17 EXPOSED - Obama Failures; SEAL Team Six Parents Demand Obama Answer For Funeral Desecration ; UNANSWERED QUESTIONS PLAGUE SEAL TEAM 6 LOSSES Lawsuit claims Navy used for White House effort to 'coddle Islamist fundamentalists' ; Congress to probe lethal SEAL crash; The unexplained ambush of Navy SEAL Team Six; A Scandal Bigger Than Benghazi?; SEAL Team 6 families' suspicions of gov't grow 'I believe someone on their side definitely made a deal with somebody on our side'; SEAL's Parents: Obama's Rules Of Engagement Killing Our Troops Malcolm Shabazz: Malcolm X's Grandson dies in Mexico. Was 'thrown off a building', or 'shot'. Two men arrested in Malcolm Shabazz murder in Mexico, more sought; Obama was in Mexico on May 2nd. Shabazz is murdered on May 9th. Is Obama the secret son of Malcolm X?; Rumors that Obama was a child of Malcom X? Brett D. Shadle: SEAL, Special Warfare Operator Chief; Member of SEAL Team 6 killed, another SEAL injured in parachute accident Matt Simmons, an investment banker and whistle blower in the British Petroleum oil spill. Died suddenly at home of a heart attack at the age of 67. An autopsy by the state medical examiner's office concludes that Simmons died from accidental drowning "with heart disease as a contributing factor." Speculation of murder: Assassinations by induced heart attack and cancer; Did The CIA Assassinate Matt Simmons For Blowing The Whistle On The BP Gulf Oil Spill Coverup? Holiyah Soetoro Sobah, aka Lia Soetoro, Obamas adopted sister: died under mysterious, sudden, and unusual circumstances just as she was getting ready to be reunited with her childhood companion and adopted brother. She spoke of many specific incidences in the household, where she grew up with "Barry" in Indonesia. She saved many items that Barry used during childhood. She was looking forward to seeing him, because shed seen him on TV and was told that was Barry, her little brother; however, Lia had reservations about it and so was anticipating seeing the scars he had from falling out of the mango tree and the limp she said he walked with. That was not to be because she up and died. Read about it here and watch video of here... ...PDF document from a web site of the Consulate General of the Republic of Indonesia appears to confirm a relationship between Lia and Barack Hussein Obama. Update On The Sudden Death Of Obamas Sister Lia Soetoro: Information From The Consulate General Of The Republic Of Indonesia Dawn Sylvia-Stasiewicz, Obama's First Dog Trainer Dies At 52. Rumored to be salaried at over $102,000 per year at tax-payer expense Ambassador Chris Stevens: (Also see the Nachumlist: "Benghazi-Gate" file ) Killed by a mob in Libya. The Obama administration ignored warnings two days prior to the attacks. Hillary Clinton made the decision not to post Marines. New now comes out that Stevens was gay: meaning that Obama sent a publicly gay man to be an ambassador in a Muslim country. Obama skipped intel meetings for days leading up to the attacks despite credible information of the attacks. Video: Libyan democratic party spokesman: amb christopher stevens was a muslim (Statement that Ambassador Chris Stevens was a Muslim is made between 1:00 & 1:20); Col. David Hunt: "State Department just allowed our guys to get killed": Glenn Beck video: Stevens was a CIA operative and weapons dealer- Glenn Beck "the Blaze TV" 9-17-12 US arms terrorists in Middle East?; Report: Terrorist Behind Ambassador Murder 'Ally of Sorts' to Obama Admin; Report: Murdered Ambassador Knew He Was On Al Qaeda Hit List; Video of Stevens Murder: What Really Happened- Video which some news outlets claimed had showed Libyans trying to save Ambassador Stevens turns out to show the opposite; Clinton: 'No Info' Amb. Stevens Was on al Qaeda 'Hit List'; Evidence mounts that al-Qaida group killed US ambassador to Libya; Obama Politicizes The Sacrifices Of The SEALs - Again; Did Hillary Clinton send a gay ambassador to Libya as intentional provocation?; CNN obtains journal of slain ambassador, reportedly goes against his familys wishes; Anderson Cooper admits that CNN found slain American ambassador's journal inside U.S. consulate in Libya and 'secretly' used it in reporting; Obama Went to Bed While Consulate was Under Siege; CNN Hid Knowledge of Libya Ambassador Diary For Days; Report: State Dept Left Consulate Unsecured Days After Ambassador Murder; Prior attacks on the embassy...Flashback: Bomb targets U.S. mission in Libya's Benghazi; US Consulate in Libya Bombed Twice in Run-Up to 9/11 Attack, Ambassador Known Target (+video); Obama to UN: It's Not My Fault Stevens is Dead; Obama Administration Knew Libya Attack Was Terrorism Within 24 Hours ; Obama Administration Deleted State Dept. Memo From Internet After Discovering Al-Qaeda Was Behind Benghazi Attack; Christopher Stevens, U.S. ambassador to Libya, dead body. No bruises on face; Despite looting of the embassy and the loss of sensitive documents, CNN finds Stevens' diary; Benghazi: The Unanswered Question- what lapses on the part of the Obama/Clinton State Department made his murder sickeningly easy?; In Libya, Security Was Lax Before Attack That Killed U.S. Ambassador, Officials Say; Did the White House order a cover-up over the murder of Libya's US Ambassador?; Report: Obama Admin Rejected Military Intervention in Benghazi During Attack; Benghazigate: Obama Chose Not to Save Ambassador Stevens' Life; Was Ambassador Stevens' death a hit?; Mother of Slain State Dept. Official Tired of Being Lied To and Stonewalled by Obama Administration; Benghazi Attack Was Botched Kidnapping To Trade Blind Sheik... and arranged by Obama?; Obama Arranged Benghazi Trip That Resulted In Murder Of US AMB Chris Stevens; ... Stevens in possession of death certificate of Osama Bin Laden?, - OBL died in 2001?; CIA operators were denied request for help during Benghazi attack, sources say: ... Denied 3 Times; John McCain: Obama Administration has Classified Benghazi Surveillance Tapes Top Secret; Obama avoids question on whether Americans in Libya were denied requests for help; Why Did CIA Director Petraeus Suddenly Resign And Why Was the U.S. Ambassador to Libya Murdered?: (Ann Barnhardt) Proof Benghazi was Murder of Stevens: "Hillary (Clinton) began pushing the fake "protests against a video blaspheming the prophet" BEFORE WOODS AND DOHERTY WERE KILLED. Per the story below, the Associated Press first published a story on Hillary's official statement on Benghazi at 10:58pm Eastern, which means that the State Department must have released it BEFORE 10:58 pm EDT. Which means that is was actually written and composed hours before that. State Department press releases in the Secretary of State's name aren't written and released without all kinds of "approvals" and process. And this statement is written in nuanced prose, referencing "religious tolerance" and all kinds of bullshit. It isn't a flash bulletin. It was thought out, long and hard. Doherty and Woods were killed by mortar fire between 11:14 and 11:26 pm EDT. Here is the citation link."; Lindsey Graham: Hillary Clinton 'got away with murder'; The secret war behind Benghazi A stealth campaign of assassinations, run by CIA nominee John Brennan, resulted in the death of the US ambassador, a new book claims...- Claim that secret war ran behind the back of Gen. Patreus; Video: The John Brennan puzzle is slowly being pieced together: Stevens recruited by Hillary Clinton to run guns to Syria from Libya; Ambassador Chris Stevens didnt have to die in Benghazi The real story of what led to his death on 9/11: Book Benghazi: The Definitive Report; More evidence of slain U.S. ambassador's secret activities; Is Muslim Brotherhood working together with Amb. Chris Stevens' assassin? Aaron Swartz: 26-year-old genius, computer prodigy, co-creator of RSS and Reddit, commits suicide after Obama DOJ harassment; 'kill list' critic; Attorney for Aaron Swartz: Prosecutors' Arguments Were "Disingenuous and Contrived"; Aaron Swartz dead; was this brilliant internet revolutionary 'taken out?' The cause of death is currently unconfirmed.: The father of information activist Aaron Swartz blames US prosecutors for his sons death: Aaron Was Killed By The Gov't; Aaron Swartz' suicide raises questions for Eric Holder and the Justice Dept; Issa, Cummings press Holder for answers about Aaron Swartz trial; Aaron Swartz files reveal how FBI tracked internet activist; Daryl Issa (on Twitter): Very concerning allegations about DOJ's handling of Aaron Swartz case on pg. 67-68 of MIT Report; Documents show Secret Service kept tab of Swartz; First 100 Pages of Aaron Swartz's Secret Service File Released Shane Todd: found dead in his Singapore apartment last summer; he apparently hanged himself, but his family claims he was murdered: - Was he murdered? Mystery death of American engineer working in Singapore on cutting-edge military technology ´who had deep misgivings about his work'; WH: Obama will talk to China about hacking our weapons systems; Flashback: Sudden death of U.S. engineer in Singapore linked to cyber espionage?; Mystery surrounding American's death in Singapore deepens as parents quit inquest into son's death; Singapore Says US Scientist Hanged Himself Ashley Turton, wife of the Obama administration's House of Representatives liaison, Dan Turton, was found dead in a burning car Monday morning, Roll Call and other news outlets are reporting. Fire officials said it appeared the car crashed as it was pulling in or out of the garage behind a rowhouse in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C., at about 5 a.m. Neighbors dialed 911 after spotting the fire. The body was discovered after fire crews doused the blaze. The fire also charred part of the garage. Nobody in the house was injured, fire officials said. Ashley Turton worked as a lobbyist for the utility giant Progress Energy, according to Politico. She was a former staffer for U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn. The Rahm Emanuel Connection to the Deceased Ashley Turton, -- The ATF investigates - Ashley Turton Crashed Under the Influence Jessica Upshaw: Mississipi State Rep. found dead Sunday of an apparent suicide . Ardent opponant of Agenda 21 (see Nachumlist file Obama and Agenda 21). Chaired a committee that stops Agenda 21 legislation in committe: Anti-Agenda 21 Bill Dies in Mississippi House Committee Chaired by Rep. Jessica Upshaw; Was directing BP oil spill fine money; 'kills herself' at home of former lawmaker...fifth Mississipi legislator to die in the last few months John Wheeler- former presidential and Pentagon aide John Wheeler III was found in a Delaware garbage dump. Wheeler's cell phone discovered - Cause of death released in Wheeler case, blunt force trauma - Wheeler's cell phone found in a taxi -- His family wants information - John Wheeler was assassinated by a hitman in a targeted killing, his widow has claimed - Who killed Jack Wheeler?; John Wheeler III Murdered for Threatining to Expose US Military Test of Poison Gas? Victoria Windsor: Blogger, researcher into ancestry: .. .reported that.she had "found evidence that the records of Madelyn Payne Dunham and Stanley Armour Dunham had been tampered with." Cause of death not yet revealed. Said to have died from a "sudden illness" Donald Young -Openly gay friend of Obama's at Murdered at Trinity Church in Chicago-...Key Witness In Obama Passport Fraud Case - Video report: Obama-Donald Young murder (December 24, 2007)... ... All 3 Homosexual Members Of Obamas Trinity Church Murdered Within 6 Weeks... -Jeff Kuhner interview with Larry Sinclair. Choir Director Murdered To Conceal Obama's Homosexuality/Drug Use? Jaime Zapata - Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent who was murdered in an ambush. Revelation that I.C.E. Report of Investigation on seizure of Fast & Furious weapons in Texas in August 2010 was signed by Zapata. Speculation that he was murdered as part of a coverup the Gunwalker scandal. (Nachumlist Gunrunner-Gate scandal files here) Ilya Zhitomirskiy: 22-year old a co-founder of the start-up social network Diaspora, which has been described as the "anti-Facebook" for its emphasis on personal privacy and decentralized data collection. Friends and associates of Mr. Zhitomirskiy said there were indications of suicide.
Mama Lois" Anderson: 79, and her 52 year old daughter Zelda White: Two US women aid workers were shot dead in Nairobi in Kenya (2008) were the retired Presbyterian Church missionaries of Pennsylvania (USA), known to thousands of Africans. The suspected killers of the US women, who were travelling in a car with diplomatic license plates, allegedly shot dead by police later. They were well known for their work. There is speculation that they possibly had knowledge of the birth and care for Barack Obama in Kenya and were later murdered to cover the trail. When murdered, the Husband had his full wallet which the thieves/car jacker didn't take, and there was never a connection made to the said attackers the police later shot dead, but blamed for the double homicide/car jacking. Their church was burned in 2008, possibly to destroy any possible birth records there. Then police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali was later removed from office by Obama supported Kenyan strongman Odinga. All possible witnesses ended up dead, all possible records of the care of infant Obama burned in the church fire, and the public official responsible out of office.
Lt. Col. Christopher Raible and Sgt. Bradley Atwell: Died in the Camp Bastion attack 3 days after the Benghazi attack
Mohammed Bakhti: A prominent figure in Tunisia's Salafist movement has died nearly two months after launching a hunger strike following his arrest for an attack on the US embassy, his lawyer and the justice ministry have said.
Jeff Joe Black: Found dead on a hiking trail from "blunt force trauma to the head": Chicago activist who claimed that Emmanuel was put into place in Chicago to oversee a coming false flag event
Larry Bland and Nate Spencer: Two other black members of Trinity Church Murdered at the same time - Report: Mother Of Obama's Murdered Gay Lover Speaks Up -- With Video
Andrew Breitbart - Died of a massive heart attack, walking outside late at night, alone, in the dark approximately one week before he was to produce tapes of Obama's extremist activities in college. More speculation: Breitbart: "Wait 'Til They See What Happens March 1st", Breitbart's Footage Shows Obama 'Palling Around' With Terrorists... Sheriff Joe Arpaio: I Spoke with Andrew Breitbart Shortly Before he Died ... .An Eyewitness Speaks Out About Andrew Breitbart's Death Scene... Breitbart's skin color described as bright red. ... Was Andrew Breitbart assassinated?...More murder speculation: Was Andrew Breitbart Murdered?... ... Coroner: Breitbart Died of Heart Failure...* Christopher Lasseter, Dissapears... witness to Breitbart's death vanishes -Follows suspicious demise of member of coroner's team (possibly in hiding to avoid reporters), .... Breitbart witness: He dropped like sack of bricks Describes 'thick white band' around forehead at death; Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Killed Breitbart and Clancy (story also linked here ); Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Had Breitbart and Clancy Killed; Brandon Walker interviews Doctor Jim Garrow, philanthropist and worker for one of the largest non-profit organizations on the planet to save female children from slaughter in China.. states he knows that President Obama ordered the murders of Tom Clancy and Andrew Breitbart (Audio)
Steve Bridges Dies At 48 - Impersonator Who Offended 0bama ...Steve Bridges as President Obama - August 2011 ....It appeared that he died of natural causes...: On the Steve Bridges website, they are now calling his death 'an accident"...that the probable cause of death was due to "upper airway anaphylaxis", caused by a severe allergic reaction.. --- CSI Show: Murder by anaphalaxis?... A real life example of possible murder by anaphalaxis
Tom Clancy Dies at 66; actual list of cause of death on his autopsy, cause of death unknown; Ex-CIA Agent Claims Obama Killed Breitbart and Clancy- Dr. Garrow states President Obama had Tom Clancy killed as well and noted that it takes 5 days for plant toxins and most poisons to break down and leave no traces in the human body. Amazingly enough, or coincidentally, the doctors did not perform an autopsy on Tom Clancys body for 5 days. (story also linked here)
Robin Copeland, 46, 11/4/2011: former Energy Department official who took part in several significant disarmament programs, died suddenly
Michael Cormier - respected forensic technician for the Los Angeles County Coroner died under suspicious circumstances at his North Hollywood home April 20, the same day Andrew Breitbarts cause of death was finally made public. Medical examiners in Los Angeles are investigating the possible poisoning death... .Conspiracy theorists cry foul after Andrew Breitbart's 'coroner' dies of arsenic poisoning- ....Police Debunk Theories Linking Breitbart, L.A. Coroner Tech Deaths; No Answers in Death of Technician Linked to Andrew Breitbart: Killed by high amounts of arsinic in his system; Breitbart's Coroner Murdered. News From LA
Madelyn Payne Dunham: Obama's grandmother, died 2 days before the general election. Flew up to see her for one hour - alone. No records. Cremated immediately, ashes dispersed.
BEVERLY ECKERT, Continental Flight Victim, Was 9/11 Widow (VIDEO, SLIDESHOW), was at the White House with Barack Obama, part of a meeting the president had with relatives of those killed in the 2001 attacks
Extortion 17: On 6 August 2011, a U.S. Boeing CH-47 Chinook military helicopter, call sign Extortion 17, was shot down while transporting a quick reaction force attempting to reinforce an engaged unit of Army Rangers in Wardak province, west of Kabul, Afghanistan The resulting crash killed all 38 people on board25 American special operations personnel, five United States Army National Guard and Army Reserve crewmen, seven Afghan commandos, and one Afghan interpreteras well as a U.S. military working dog. It is considered the worst loss of U.S Military life in the Afghanistan campaign, surpassing Operation Red Wings in 2005. There were 15 Navy SEAL's killed; Afghanistan's Benghazi: The Shoot-Down of Extortion 17; TrentoVision 5.9.13 - Navy SEAL Extortion 17 EXPOSED - Obama Failures; Obama increased special op's missions from an average of 56 a month to 334 per month (statement begins at 26 minute mark of video); Afghan Benghazi: Extortion 17, Betraying Seal Team 6;; Navy SEAL's father: Obama sent my son to his death Tells Michael Savage 'they knew something was up'; Extortion 17! Mother of slain SEAL on Biden: "He should be in prison for high crimes and treason."; Families suspect SEAL Team 6 crash was inside job on worst day in Afghanistan ; Navy warrior's quick cremation deepens mystery of Chinook disaster in Afghanistan; The Shocking True Story of Extortion 17 as Told by a Navy SEAL's Father; Extortion 17, The Deadliest Day in the War on Terror; SEAL's Parents: Obama's Rules Of Engagement Killing Our Troops
Loretta Fuddy: -Hawaii Health Director Loretta Fuddy dies in small plane crash; 'Fuddy was at the center of controversy in the birth certificate controversy as she was the person who reportedly granted "an exception" to Barack Obama, allegedly witnessing the copying of Obamas birth certificate and attested to its authenticity'; Health director who approved Obama birth certificate dies in plane crash
Bechir Gholli. Student also arrested for attack on embassy
Bill Gwatney, a close friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton and a Clinton super delegate at an upcoming convention in Denver and was fatally shot in 2008. Shooter had a post-it note with a mystery phone number. Did Obama Assassinate Clinton delegates? Bill Gwatney and Stephanie Tubbs Jones? Video: Bill Gwatney Murder Linked to Obama
Lieutenant Quarles Harris Jr.- A key witness in a federal probe into passport information stolen from the State Department was fatally shot in front of a District church. Obama's Passport Breach: Unanswered Questions, and an Unsolved Murder: Harris worked for a security firm run by John Brennan, later to be a terrorism advisor to Obama. Listed as a detail in Youtube video "Shocking Secrets and Verifiable Facts about Barack Obama the MSM Refuses to Report" (at approx. 22 minutes in the video); Was an employee of John Brennan when murdered. John Brennan confirmed to head CIA
Andy P. Hart: Guantanamo attorney dead in apparent suicide....Hart was assigned to defend Mohammed Rahim al-Afghani, one of 16 detainees at Guantanamo which the US government has designated as "high-value"
Michael Hastings: Rolling Stone Journalist, Author Believed to be Dead in Hollywood Crash... known for his interview of Gen. Stanley McCrystal: Michael Hastings death: Coroner still hasn't ID'd badly burned victim: Picture of the burned out car; autopsy results will take weeks; Video report .. was covering a story about the defense dept. and Hollyood... nervous wreck; Michael Hastings, journalist who helped bring down US general, dies at 33; WikiLeaks Claims Michael Hastings Told Them FBI Was Investigating Him Hours Before He Died; Hastings' death in fiery car crash is just the latest in a growing list of dead investigative journos; Michael Hastings' Chilling Final Story... - ->"Why Democrats Love to Spy on Americans"; Michael Hastings researching Jill Kelley case before death; Hastings "Boston Brakes" Killing a Warning?; FBI says journalist Michael Hastings was not under investigation; Michael Hastings "CAUGHT ON TAPE" Running Red-Light Seconds Before Crash; Journalist Michael Hastings Dies in Fiery Crash / Hollywood RAW FOOTAGE; Hastings Sent Colleagues Email Hours Before Crash; Was Michael Hastings' Car Hacked? Richard Clarke Says It's Possible ; Journalist Michael Hastings' Body Cremated by Authorities Against Family's Wishes (Video); Hackers Reveal Nasty New Car Attacks--With Me Behind The Wheel (Video); MICHAEL HASTINGS CRASH CAUGHT ON SURVEILLANCE CAMERA; Bush advisor: Hastings crash 'consistent with a car cyberattack'; Group sues FBI for records after Michael Hastings' mysterious death; Report: Michael Hastings Was Investigating CIA Director John Brennan; CIA Director Brennan Confirmed as Reporter Michael Hastings Next Target; Coroner Classifies Michael Hastings' Death As Accidental; Coronor: Drugs in Hastings' system. Was Bipolar; Rolling Stone journalist feared prior to crash his car was tampered with: Report; Mystery grows: Journalist died prepping Obama exposé Major probe tied to agent suspected of sanitizing president's passport records; Who Killed Michael Hastings?
Hazem: 'Benghazi attack suspect' dies in Cairo shootout
Barnaby Jack: Hacker found dead days before he was to demonstrate how to hack a pacemaker
Stephanie Tubbs Jones: found brain dead in 2008. Democratic Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Cleveland, a super delegate and one of Hillary Clintons most prominent black supporters, was found in her car unconscious Also: Did Obama Assassinate Clinton Delegates? Additional: Hollywood Producer Bettina Viviano: Bill Clinton Directly Told Me Barack Obama Not Eligible - ....Caucus death threats (audio)... also reported by Jerome Corsi at WND: Hillary supporter's untold Obama horror stories Allegations of intimidation, manipulation, sudden death
Christopher Kelly - Committed suicide, under pressure to testify against former Gov. Rod Blagojevich; Christopher Kelly Case Round-Up
David Koschman, Mudered in a Chicago Rush Street brawl by Richard J. R.J. Vanecko, a nephew of Mayor Daley and White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley- Homicide case involving Daley nephew closed without charges , Witness to Killing Involving Daley Nephew: Deceased Didn't Start It
The Krim Children: CNBC Execs Children Murdered, 1 Day After CNBC Reports $43 Trillion Bankster Lawsuit; Police: Nanny stabbed herself upon mother's arrival; Screen Shot of original CNBC Article: Another source for article: ...Targets of Spire Law Group; Law Suit Documents; Book; "Bankster Chronicles"
Kam Kuwata - was found dead inside his Venice home after friend concerned that they had not heard from him for a few days alerted police. Political consultant in California. Democratic insider. Possibly the Obama consultant referred to in the Ulsterman Report: Alledgedly viewed bizarre drug induced behavior from Obama during the the 2008 campaign.: "The Troubling Timeline".... The Death of a Political Operative The Troubling Timeline (UPDATED)
Chris Kyle: Author of "American Sniper" among the dead at Rough Creek; Former Navy SEAL & 'American Sniper' Author Chris Kyle Reportedly Killed at TX Lodge; Deadliest sniper in U.S. military history is 'shot and killed point- blank by veteran suffering from PTSD' at Texas gun range; Conspiracy? Chris Kyle The Third High Profile Firearms Business Owner Killed in Past Month, Along With 30 SEALs The Past Four Years; Suspicions Raised After Deaths of Three Firearms Experts; Murdered Navy SEAL Was Obama Gun Control Foe;Revealed: Marine who 'killed' famous sniper threatened to 'blow his brains out and kill his family months before shooting two men at gun range'; Obama Has Yet To Acknowledge Death Of Legendary Seal Sniper Chris Kyle (2/13/13); Chris Kyle Widow: Former Navy SEAL 'Died Because Somebody Wanted to Kill Him'
Robert McKeon: founder of private-equity firm Veritas Capital, dies Sept. 10, 2012 of suicide; General Dynamics bought company in August 2011 to expand influence into Obamacare IT
Marco McMillian: Mississippi's first gay mayoral candidate, 34, 'was beaten and burned' before his body was found dumped on a riverbank. Victim of a hate crime? Pictured with Obama. Another black and gay associate of Obama murdered. (see Nachumlist file Is Obama Gay? )
Stefanie Moses: NYPD sergeant photographed with Obama at 9/11 ceremony....found dead in apparent suicide: -----Face of the NYPD...commits suicide on Long Island after fighting with her girlfriend; NYPD Sgt. Stephanie Moses On Meeting Pres. Obama
John Noveske; the owner of Noveske Rifleworks. Vehicle run off the road - Two gun makers killed in two days, and no answers (Photos)
Renee L Abena Obama: baby girl Born on October 31, 2004. The infant died less than two months later on December 25, 2004. "..the death was not reported by any hospital in the State of Maryland, but by a funeral home (indicated by the SSDI code "72"). BHOs biographies do not report the death of an infant in 2004, yet here was a baby girl who bore his last name--and the initial of his grandmothers middle name--Madelyn "Lee" Dunham. A search of the Social Security Death Index produced "No Results," though a genealogical index at WorldVitalRecords.com produced a Social Security number: "215-71-0752." From: "Who was Renee L. Abena Obama?"
Alex Okrent: -Apparently found deat at Obama's campaign headquarters in Chicago. Witnesses say he collapsed, found dead after. Okrent had long been a staffer back the Obama 2004 U.S. senate campaign, on staff for eight years. Parents immediately say the cause of death was "heart attack", but no autopsy was yet performed. Medical examiner said the cause of death was "inconclusive". Internet recornds have been scrubbed. Twitter account timeline also makes no mention of his work for Obama: Okrent Twitter file (on Twitter). - Speculation as to whether he was a witness to an Obama gay connection: Who Is Dead Obama Staffer Alex Okrent? Youtube video: Who is Dead Obama Staffer Alex Okrent? Part 1 ... ... - Part 2; Autopsy Inconclusive for Obama Campaign Worker Who Collapsed at Chicago Campaign HQ; Gay opinion piece...-Alex Okrent: Equality is a Moral Equivalent; What Do Colorado Shooter James Holmes And Obama Staffer Alex Okrent Have In Common?....no digital footprint on the internet; Was Obama Staffer Alex Okrent Murdered Because he was Going to Expose Obama's Anti-Israel Ties?
Donald A. Perry: Chick-fil-As public relations director dead of heart attack: Is Rahm Emanuel bullying Chick-fil-A over gay marriage?: Emanuel goes after Chick-fil-A for boss anti-gay views; Rahm: Chick-fil-A Values Are Not Chicago Values; Rahm backs down: We never said wed block Chick-fil-A from Chicago, says spokesman
Albert Peterson: Wealthy Defense Contractor commits suicide, kills family; Man Kills His Entire Family, Feared Obama Would Get Re-Elected; Pictured: 'Beautiful' family slain hours after church by 'mentally ill father who was tormented by the prospect of Obama winning the election''He said he wanted to expose something at work. He also got the impression at work, that if they didn't vote for Obama and get him elected, they would lose their jobs,' " (See Obama and Your Prvacy- Nachumlist file)
Rafael Prieto: Secret service apparent suicide under investigation: D.C., police are investigating the apparent suicide of a U.S. Secret Service supervisory agent assigned to President Obama's security detail. -Was under investigation for going to prostitutes; Secret Service agent kills self amid affair probe....Prietos apparent cause of death was carbon monoxide poisoning
Keith Ratliff; ..was well known for a series of videos he produced on Youtube, known as "FPSRussia," in which various high-powered firearms were demonstrated. Found with a single shot in the head - Two gun makers killed in two days, and no answers (Photos); Partner YouTube video-maker FPSRussia Home Raided by ATF
Eva Rausing: Found dead with no cause of death yet established. Her husband has been suspected as the killer. Rausing's family says she was at Occidental College at the same time as Obama. "Family of tragic Tetra Pak wife Eva Rausing reveal she began dabbling with 'hard drugs' while at the same college as Barack Obama as husband is arrested for murder"... Suspected cause of death from drug overdose
John McCarthy Roll: - was the Chief Judge for the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, murdered by the same gunman attacking Gabrielle Giffords. Theory that Roll's prelimiary ruling on "United States of America v. $333,520.00 in United States Currency et al (Case Number: 4:2010cv00703 Filed: November 30, 2010) was cause for the assassination and that the shooter used the mass shooting as a cover for the government. - Claim: Giffords hit a planned assassination: Judge Roll real target; Judge John Roll - Wake Up Tucson
Michael Scott - Although Chicago school board president Michael Scott's death had been ruled a suicide by the Cook County medical examiner's office, Chicago police characterized the case as a death investigation, and have not concluded that Scott's death was a suicide- was subpoenaed to testify before a federal grand jury looking into the admissions practices of Chicago's elite schools. -also was under scrutiny over Olympics-related real estate dealings
Navy SEAL Commander Job Price, 42: US Navy SEAL commander dies in Afghanistan: suicide -----SEAL Team Four commander in Afghanistan 'commits suicide' as body of married father is found shot dead: Rumor?- Clinton Injured, US Navy Seal Killed In Secret US Mission To Iran; State Department Denies Hillary Clinton Injured in Plane Crash ... but- ABC News Report on Emergency Landing of a US Plane in Iran 16 days earlier; US Navy Seal Commander, Who Killed Osama Bin Laden, Commits 'Apparent Suicide In Afghanistan
SEAL Team 6: Helicoptor shot down by terrorists. Possibly given location by infiltrators. Obama rules of engagement possibly lead to deaths. Father of fallen SEAL begs for military officer to tell the truth about "criminal" rules of engagement; The deaths of Seal Team Six ...who never would fly an entire company in one helicopter alone. UNBELIEVABLE: 'More Than 20 Navy SEALS From The Unit That Killed Osama Bin Laden' Die In Helicopter Crash; 31 US troops, mostly elite Navy SEALs, killed in Afghanistan 7 Afghan commandos also die in attack; SEALs were from same unit but not same team that killed Osama bin Laden; Navy SEAL Team 6 Families To Reveal Government's Culpability In Death Of Their Sons; OUTRAGE! Obama Administration Allowed Radical Cleric to Curse US Navy SEAL Heroes at Funeral Services (Video); TrentoVision 5.9.13 - Navy SEAL Extortion 17 EXPOSED - Obama Failures; SEAL Team Six Parents Demand Obama Answer For Funeral Desecration ; UNANSWERED QUESTIONS PLAGUE SEAL TEAM 6 LOSSES Lawsuit claims Navy used for White House effort to 'coddle Islamist fundamentalists' ; Congress to probe lethal SEAL crash; The unexplained ambush of Navy SEAL Team Six; A Scandal Bigger Than Benghazi?; SEAL Team 6 families' suspicions of gov't grow 'I believe someone on their side definitely made a deal with somebody on our side'; SEAL's Parents: Obama's Rules Of Engagement Killing Our Troops
Malcolm Shabazz: Malcolm X's Grandson dies in Mexico. Was 'thrown off a building', or 'shot'. Two men arrested in Malcolm Shabazz murder in Mexico, more sought; Obama was in Mexico on May 2nd. Shabazz is murdered on May 9th. Is Obama the secret son of Malcolm X?; Rumors that Obama was a child of Malcom X?
Brett D. Shadle: SEAL, Special Warfare Operator Chief; Member of SEAL Team 6 killed, another SEAL injured in parachute accident
Matt Simmons, an investment banker and whistle blower in the British Petroleum oil spill. Died suddenly at home of a heart attack at the age of 67. An autopsy by the state medical examiner's office concludes that Simmons died from accidental drowning "with heart disease as a contributing factor." Speculation of murder: Assassinations by induced heart attack and cancer; Did The CIA Assassinate Matt Simmons For Blowing The Whistle On The BP Gulf Oil Spill Coverup?
Holiyah Soetoro Sobah, aka Lia Soetoro, Obamas adopted sister: died under mysterious, sudden, and unusual circumstances just as she was getting ready to be reunited with her childhood companion and adopted brother. She spoke of many specific incidences in the household, where she grew up with "Barry" in Indonesia. She saved many items that Barry used during childhood. She was looking forward to seeing him, because shed seen him on TV and was told that was Barry, her little brother; however, Lia had reservations about it and so was anticipating seeing the scars he had from falling out of the mango tree and the limp she said he walked with. That was not to be because she up and died. Read about it here and watch video of here... ...PDF document from a web site of the Consulate General of the Republic of Indonesia appears to confirm a relationship between Lia and Barack Hussein Obama. Update On The Sudden Death Of Obamas Sister Lia Soetoro: Information From The Consulate General Of The Republic Of Indonesia
Dawn Sylvia-Stasiewicz, Obama's First Dog Trainer Dies At 52. Rumored to be salaried at over $102,000 per year at tax-payer expense
Ambassador Chris Stevens: (Also see the Nachumlist: "Benghazi-Gate" file ) Killed by a mob in Libya. The Obama administration ignored warnings two days prior to the attacks. Hillary Clinton made the decision not to post Marines. New now comes out that Stevens was gay: meaning that Obama sent a publicly gay man to be an ambassador in a Muslim country. Obama skipped intel meetings for days leading up to the attacks despite credible information of the attacks. Video: Libyan democratic party spokesman: amb christopher stevens was a muslim (Statement that Ambassador Chris Stevens was a Muslim is made between 1:00 & 1:20); Col. David Hunt: "State Department just allowed our guys to get killed": Glenn Beck video: Stevens was a CIA operative and weapons dealer- Glenn Beck "the Blaze TV" 9-17-12 US arms terrorists in Middle East?; Report: Terrorist Behind Ambassador Murder 'Ally of Sorts' to Obama Admin; Report: Murdered Ambassador Knew He Was On Al Qaeda Hit List; Video of Stevens Murder: What Really Happened- Video which some news outlets claimed had showed Libyans trying to save Ambassador Stevens turns out to show the opposite; Clinton: 'No Info' Amb. Stevens Was on al Qaeda 'Hit List'; Evidence mounts that al-Qaida group killed US ambassador to Libya; Obama Politicizes The Sacrifices Of The SEALs - Again; Did Hillary Clinton send a gay ambassador to Libya as intentional provocation?; CNN obtains journal of slain ambassador, reportedly goes against his familys wishes; Anderson Cooper admits that CNN found slain American ambassador's journal inside U.S. consulate in Libya and 'secretly' used it in reporting; Obama Went to Bed While Consulate was Under Siege; CNN Hid Knowledge of Libya Ambassador Diary For Days; Report: State Dept Left Consulate Unsecured Days After Ambassador Murder; Prior attacks on the embassy...Flashback: Bomb targets U.S. mission in Libya's Benghazi; US Consulate in Libya Bombed Twice in Run-Up to 9/11 Attack, Ambassador Known Target (+video); Obama to UN: It's Not My Fault Stevens is Dead; Obama Administration Knew Libya Attack Was Terrorism Within 24 Hours ; Obama Administration Deleted State Dept. Memo From Internet After Discovering Al-Qaeda Was Behind Benghazi Attack; Christopher Stevens, U.S. ambassador to Libya, dead body. No bruises on face; Despite looting of the embassy and the loss of sensitive documents, CNN finds Stevens' diary; Benghazi: The Unanswered Question- what lapses on the part of the Obama/Clinton State Department made his murder sickeningly easy?; In Libya, Security Was Lax Before Attack That Killed U.S. Ambassador, Officials Say; Did the White House order a cover-up over the murder of Libya's US Ambassador?; Report: Obama Admin Rejected Military Intervention in Benghazi During Attack; Benghazigate: Obama Chose Not to Save Ambassador Stevens' Life; Was Ambassador Stevens' death a hit?; Mother of Slain State Dept. Official Tired of Being Lied To and Stonewalled by Obama Administration; Benghazi Attack Was Botched Kidnapping To Trade Blind Sheik... and arranged by Obama?; Obama Arranged Benghazi Trip That Resulted In Murder Of US AMB Chris Stevens; ... Stevens in possession of death certificate of Osama Bin Laden?, - OBL died in 2001?; CIA operators were denied request for help during Benghazi attack, sources say: ... Denied 3 Times; John McCain: Obama Administration has Classified Benghazi Surveillance Tapes Top Secret; Obama avoids question on whether Americans in Libya were denied requests for help; Why Did CIA Director Petraeus Suddenly Resign And Why Was the U.S. Ambassador to Libya Murdered?: (Ann Barnhardt) Proof Benghazi was Murder of Stevens: "Hillary (Clinton) began pushing the fake "protests against a video blaspheming the prophet" BEFORE WOODS AND DOHERTY WERE KILLED. Per the story below, the Associated Press first published a story on Hillary's official statement on Benghazi at 10:58pm Eastern, which means that the State Department must have released it BEFORE 10:58 pm EDT. Which means that is was actually written and composed hours before that. State Department press releases in the Secretary of State's name aren't written and released without all kinds of "approvals" and process. And this statement is written in nuanced prose, referencing "religious tolerance" and all kinds of bullshit. It isn't a flash bulletin. It was thought out, long and hard. Doherty and Woods were killed by mortar fire between 11:14 and 11:26 pm EDT. Here is the citation link."; Lindsey Graham: Hillary Clinton 'got away with murder'; The secret war behind Benghazi A stealth campaign of assassinations, run by CIA nominee John Brennan, resulted in the death of the US ambassador, a new book claims...- Claim that secret war ran behind the back of Gen. Patreus; Video: The John Brennan puzzle is slowly being pieced together: Stevens recruited by Hillary Clinton to run guns to Syria from Libya; Ambassador Chris Stevens didnt have to die in Benghazi The real story of what led to his death on 9/11: Book Benghazi: The Definitive Report; More evidence of slain U.S. ambassador's secret activities; Is Muslim Brotherhood working together with Amb. Chris Stevens' assassin?
Aaron Swartz: 26-year-old genius, computer prodigy, co-creator of RSS and Reddit, commits suicide after Obama DOJ harassment; 'kill list' critic; Attorney for Aaron Swartz: Prosecutors' Arguments Were "Disingenuous and Contrived"; Aaron Swartz dead; was this brilliant internet revolutionary 'taken out?' The cause of death is currently unconfirmed.: The father of information activist Aaron Swartz blames US prosecutors for his sons death: Aaron Was Killed By The Gov't; Aaron Swartz' suicide raises questions for Eric Holder and the Justice Dept; Issa, Cummings press Holder for answers about Aaron Swartz trial; Aaron Swartz files reveal how FBI tracked internet activist; Daryl Issa (on Twitter): Very concerning allegations about DOJ's handling of Aaron Swartz case on pg. 67-68 of MIT Report; Documents show Secret Service kept tab of Swartz; First 100 Pages of Aaron Swartz's Secret Service File Released
Shane Todd: found dead in his Singapore apartment last summer; he apparently hanged himself, but his family claims he was murdered: - Was he murdered? Mystery death of American engineer working in Singapore on cutting-edge military technology ´who had deep misgivings about his work'; WH: Obama will talk to China about hacking our weapons systems; Flashback: Sudden death of U.S. engineer in Singapore linked to cyber espionage?; Mystery surrounding American's death in Singapore deepens as parents quit inquest into son's death; Singapore Says US Scientist Hanged Himself
Ashley Turton, wife of the Obama administration's House of Representatives liaison, Dan Turton, was found dead in a burning car Monday morning, Roll Call and other news outlets are reporting. Fire officials said it appeared the car crashed as it was pulling in or out of the garage behind a rowhouse in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Washington, D.C., at about 5 a.m. Neighbors dialed 911 after spotting the fire. The body was discovered after fire crews doused the blaze. The fire also charred part of the garage. Nobody in the house was injured, fire officials said. Ashley Turton worked as a lobbyist for the utility giant Progress Energy, according to Politico. She was a former staffer for U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn. The Rahm Emanuel Connection to the Deceased Ashley Turton, -- The ATF investigates - Ashley Turton Crashed Under the Influence
Jessica Upshaw: Mississipi State Rep. found dead Sunday of an apparent suicide . Ardent opponant of Agenda 21 (see Nachumlist file Obama and Agenda 21). Chaired a committee that stops Agenda 21 legislation in committe: Anti-Agenda 21 Bill Dies in Mississippi House Committee Chaired by Rep. Jessica Upshaw; Was directing BP oil spill fine money; 'kills herself' at home of former lawmaker...fifth Mississipi legislator to die in the last few months
John Wheeler- former presidential and Pentagon aide John Wheeler III was found in a Delaware garbage dump. Wheeler's cell phone discovered - Cause of death released in Wheeler case, blunt force trauma - Wheeler's cell phone found in a taxi -- His family wants information - John Wheeler was assassinated by a hitman in a targeted killing, his widow has claimed - Who killed Jack Wheeler?; John Wheeler III Murdered for Threatining to Expose US Military Test of Poison Gas?
Victoria Windsor: Blogger, researcher into ancestry: .. .reported that.she had "found evidence that the records of Madelyn Payne Dunham and Stanley Armour Dunham had been tampered with." Cause of death not yet revealed. Said to have died from a "sudden illness"
Donald Young -Openly gay friend of Obama's at Murdered at Trinity Church in Chicago-...Key Witness In Obama Passport Fraud Case - Video report: Obama-Donald Young murder (December 24, 2007)... ... All 3 Homosexual Members Of Obamas Trinity Church Murdered Within 6 Weeks... -Jeff Kuhner interview with Larry Sinclair. Choir Director Murdered To Conceal Obama's Homosexuality/Drug Use?
Jaime Zapata - Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent who was murdered in an ambush. Revelation that I.C.E. Report of Investigation on seizure of Fast & Furious weapons in Texas in August 2010 was signed by Zapata. Speculation that he was murdered as part of a coverup the Gunwalker scandal. (Nachumlist Gunrunner-Gate scandal files here)
Ilya Zhitomirskiy: 22-year old a co-founder of the start-up social network Diaspora, which has been described as the "anti-Facebook" for its emphasis on personal privacy and decentralized data collection. Friends and associates of Mr. Zhitomirskiy said there were indications of suicide.
Related Murder/Cover-ups
Robert Plumlee interview: worked as a pilot for clandestine CIA flights, transporting arms to Cuba before Castro took power. He discussed how scandals from Iran-Contra to the failed presidential bid of Senator Gary Hart all tie-in to breaking international stories in the news today. In a wide ranging interview, linked past murders and coverups in past administrations to current murrders. Linked muders in the Iran/Contra scandal under Reagan to murders in Mena (Arkansas) under Clinton to current murderous scandals such as Chris Stevens and SEALs deaths under 'Extortion 17" together as part of an ongoing weapons and gun smuggling for profit. Claims that groups inside the intelligence community run guns for huge cash dumps which buys off politicians and news outlets. Murder is used as a means to silence whistleblowers. Full interview which was aired on the Coast to Coast AM all night broadcast on November 2/3 with John B. Wells (host) may be heard HERE (membership required) other page link to interview located HERE The Clinton Dead Pool File: Former Hillary Associate Claims to Have Been Her Personal Hit Man Admits to Killing for Money (See Nachumlist Clinton Dead Pool File: Here) Camp Bastion: Jihad Friday gets bloodier: Attack on Camp Bastion in Afghanistan, 2 Marines reportedly killed; Deafening silence about the Camp Bastion attack; Camp Bastion Families Want Answers About Afghanistan; Uncovering the Camp Bastion cover-up; Two Marine generals fired in wake of brazen Taliban attack on Camp Bastion The Boston Marathon Bombing: (See Boston Marathon Massacre file) Did authorities have word before of an attack on the Boston Marathon?: Bomb Sniffing Dogs: Saudi held in Boston terror bombing "smelled of gunpowder"...asked: Did anyone die?; Kerry meeting with Saudi Foreign Minister abruptly closed; Injured Saudi is a witness, not a suspect, in Boston bombing; no other suspects; "Innocent" Saudi has ties to several Al-Qaeda Terrorists; AMERICAN AIRLINES flight grounded after passengers panic over Iraqis shouting to each other in Arabic; American Airlines grounds flights nationwide due to glitch; Drastic security changes coming to large-scale public events, experts say; Numerous other bomb threats to institutions throughout the nation; Pictures at the Boston Marathon made public after the FBI said they had no suspects; Michael Savage Interviews Walid Shoebat on Boston Marathon Bombing Incident - 4/16/13; Arrest has been made in Boston marathon bombing and suspect will be brought to court after a 'dark-skinned male'; Authorities change story:- Feds deny reports of Boston suspect in custody; Boston bomber is caught on camera: FBI reveals store footage shows 'dark-skinned man in backwards hat' planting second explosive moments before blasts tore through marathon crowds; FBI Cancels Boston Bombs News Conference; Obama meets with Saudi foreign minister, discusses Syria; Saudi National & Exchange Student Ali Alharbi Is Being Deported Back to Kingdom; Saudi National in Boston Bombing being deported on "National Security Grounds"; Photo of questioned Saudi in Hospital after Boston bombings, and more unanswered questions; Saudi National Once Considered 'Person of Interest' May Be Deported on 'Security' Grounds - And How Its Supposed to Be Framed; Boston runners were warned: Squamish man: 'If you run tomorrow, you're going to die'; 1 of 2 suspects in Boston bombing killed ... "World View: ISLAM"; Boston Bombing Suspect Posted Video on Al Qaeda Prophecy on YouTube; Report: Alharbi visited by Michelle Obama in Hospital; Boston Jihadi Bombers members of Wahhabi cell funded by Saudi Al Qaeda; FBI Boston Bombing Video Altered To Hide Fact Bomber Was Black Ops Mercenary?; Authorities change story:- Feds deny reports of Boston suspect in custody; Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and the Imam; Source-Saudi National's Deportation Record Altered; Boston marathon bombing happened on same day as 'controlled explosion' drill by Boston bomb squad; Interview With Boston Marathon Eyewitness Confirms Bomb Squad Drill; Senator: Law Enforcement May Have Had Advance Warning of Boston Bombings (video); Did CNN use "Crisis Actors"?; Report: Federal Judge Compromised Investigation By Prematurely Mirandizing Tsarnaev; FBI Orders the State of Florida Medical Examiner to Keep Boston Bombing Friend's Autopsy Secret (Ibragim Todashev) ' FBI Special Agents Christopher Lorek and Stephen Shaw: 2 FBI Agents Involved in Dzhokar Tsarnaev's Arrest "FALL" Out of Helicopter and Die; The 2 FBI Agents Who Arrested Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Did Not Die Mysteriously Ibragim Todashev: Feds: Man shot after attacking agent was being questioned about Boston bombing suspects and 2011 triple murder Algerian massacre: Algerian Terrorists Demand Release of Blind Sheik in Exchange for American Hostages: Theory- another false flag The Sandy Hook school massacre: (Also see The Sandy Hook Massacre Page on Nachumlist)27 people shot dead in school shooting. including children. Shooter commits suicide. White House immediately exploits murders for gun control attempts as Obama goes to Sandy Hook and speaks. Gun control legislation immediately called for. White House fundraises using Sandy Hook. Connecticut state police warned that people posting "misinformation" on social media websites would be "investigated and prosecuted." - Initial reports that a "second gunman" arrested in the woods behind the school was involved in the massacre were later dropped without explanation. Facebook Suspends Account For Questioning Official Narrative on Shooting; Adam Lanza's Hard Drive Damaged Beyond Repair? Motive for Shooting Hidden: Adam Lanza Was On Antipsychotic Drug Known To Cause Aggressive Behavior,--- Something Strange About Robbie Parker.. Video:.Robbie Parker, the Father of slain child comes to microphone- laughing... Video: then tears up for the camera.. within a day, sets up a fund: Emillie Parker Fund, to raise money; Emilie Parker family plans memorial, fund for fellow victims; Russian Report (rumor?) on Sandy Hook Massacre: Connecticut Massacre Blamed On Son Of Top CIA Analyst: Russian rumor continued: Hunger Games "Experiment" Said Behind Connecticut Massacre; Nancy Lanza Not a Teacher?; Conspiracy Theory: Sandy Hook Massacre a ritual killing; Hiram Masonic Temple next to Sandy Hook school; Sandy Hook Shooting: Grieving Parents Hoax..Worked for Home Security as Crisis Actors; Another pair of actors in Sandy hoax exposed. 100% BUSTED!: Website: crisisactors.org; Crisis Actors: Are They Being Used To Fake Events?; Video: The Sandy Hook Actors PART 1; Part 2; Part 3; Video: Sandy Hook Actors Exposed? Same as Giffords Shooting? Banking connection to murderer's parent Lanza: Peter Lanza's Libor Bid Rigging Connection: -Nancy Lanza a Morgan Stanley Investment Broker; Police Officer Exposes The Unanswered Questions Of The Sandy Hook Tragedy; Three Days Before Shooting "United Way Extends Our Most Sincere Condolences To Sandy Hook Families"; United Way: No, we didn't know about Dec. 14 Sandy Hook shooting in advance..."flawed Google search..."; Sandy Hook Massacre Linked to DHS Exercise?; Prominent rifle manufacturer killed in mysterious car crash days after posting psych drug link to school shooters; Anderson Cooper Goes After 'Anonymous Internet Trolls' Pushing Conspiracies About Newtown And Gun Control; The Sandy Hook Shooting - Fully Exposed (VIDEO); Sandy Hook - The Truth (Controversial Documentary) That DHS spent two years in Sandy Hook running training drills 2005 London Subway Bombing, 9/11 2001Terror Attack, 2012 Sandy Hook Massacre all had a version or versions of the Dept. of Homeland Security running drills or class courses in the exact same place at the exact same time... "Planning for the needs of children in disasters" Set at the same exact time and in the exact same location as the Sandy Hook Massacre; What Was DHS Doing In Sandy Hook? False Flag Two Years In The Making Or Department Of Homeland Security Fail?; Today Show: No assault weapons used in Sandy Hook Massacre; NBC Admitted: No 'Assault Rifle' Used in Newtown Shooting; Still No Police Report, or Toxicology Results, on Sandy Hook Killer; Sandy Hook Elementary shooter has no brain deformities, medical examiner says; Sandy Hook Conspiracy Theories Edge Toward The Mainstream; CNN video of police charge at Sandy Hook is not Sandy Hook; Probe of Newtown shooter Adam Lanza focusing on murderer's 'psychotic break' and unlocked guns; Sandy Hook Panel Set to Begin Review of School Shooting; Newtown Is Hometown of Sugarmann; His Group Seeks Assault Weapons Ban- Josh Sugermann founded Violence Policy Center (VPC) after leaving The Coalition to Ban Handguns in 1988. He is generally credited with mainstreaming the term assault weapon in his 1988 work - Assault weapons and accessories in America; Foreign language heard being spoken in the Sandy Hook raw footage; We Take You Inside the Mind of a Sandy Hook Truther: CIA Conspiracy? 7 Shooters? An Attempt to 'Disarm People and Attack the 2nd Amendment'?; Sandy Hook DA cites 'potential suspects,' fears witness safety; Detectives investigating Newtown massacre find Adam Lanza's violent video games, ponder the 20-year-old mimicking a gory game scene; SSDI changed Adam Lanza's date-of-death from Dec. 13 to Dec. 14, 2012...according to the original SSDI entry, the man who we are told was the lone gunman who perpetrated the Sandy Hook massacre, had died the day before he killed his 27 victims; Conn. massacre records secret, media seek access; Newtown clerk refuses to issue Sandy Hook victims' death certificates; WATCH 'Fell Off The Face Of The Earth' - CNN: No Record Of Adam Lanza Existence Since 2009; ...-Sandy Hook Shooting: Active-Shooter Drill Confirmed by Law Enforcement Raises Suspicion of False Flag Operation; Beck: Cover-Up of Saudi Link to Boston Bombing 'is so Far Beyond Benghazi' it is Criminal ... (full audio HERE 13:07); Report: Boston Jihadis Were U.S./Saudi Agents Who Turned On Their Masters; Photos: Private military operatives hired to 'work' the Boston marathon with black backpacks, radiation detectors, tactical gear ; Psyops: Mind Control Marathon and Boston Bombings; Boston Bombings a 'Gift' to Putin, Says Chechen Opposition Leader; Report: Federal Judge Compromised Investigation By Prematurely Mirandizing Tsarnaev; Tamerlan Tsarnaev Triple Murders Were ALL Jews Targeted for Religion on 10th Anniv of 9/11... - Three mourned after brutal Waltham murder; Newtown shooter toxicology results released; Whistleblower Joseph Ametrano Reveals Sandy Hook as Staged Event; Secrecy shrouds Sandy Hook shooting investigation US Terror-Storm Lurking as Possible False Flag Averted... - Roy Antigua, recently arrested with a plethora of fake ID's, and disguises, including medical smocks, and other outfits. Sikh Temple Massacre: Army Vet Wade Michael Page Identified as Wisconsin Temple Shooter, 'Psychological operations specialist'; "White Supremacist" Who Spent Time In Eastern Carolina And Ft. Bragg; Sikh temple shooter who gunned down six was skinhead 'white supremacist' army vet 'with 9/11 tattoo and was part of race hate group'; Read The Letter Congress Sent To The Attorney General Months Ago Addressing Hate Crimes Against Sikhs; Conference of Mayors, ...Calls for Stricter Gun Laws Following Sikh Temple Shooting; FBI Takes Over the Investigation; India blames the White House for the Wisconsin Massacre; Obama: America needs "soul searching" on gun violence; FBI: Sikh temple shooter Wade Page died of self-inflicted gunshot; Obama orders flags at half-staff after Wisconsin shooting; Wisconsin Sikh Temple mass shooting: FOUR shooters, not one as officially reported Aurora massacre: several links between James Holmes and U.S. government research (Salk Institute involved in neurologically enhancing soldiers abilities on battlefield connections to DARPA); Holmes Family Has Deep DARPA Connections; A growing number of alternative media publications are now claiming that an October 2011 photograph of an Occupy Wall Street (OWS) protester getting carted off by law enforcement officials in New York is of none other than the Colorado Killer, James Holmes; More Signs Point to James E. Holmes As Occupy Black Bloc Member-... Plotted to Kill Cops With Firebombs Just Like Black Bloc Chicago; Picture of Holmes arrested in New York Protest; Fox Reporter Won't Name Sources in Aurora Shooting Story; Faces Jail More on the Aurora massacre: Colorado Shooting victims: Was Colorado Shooting Staged By The Government? (video link on YouTube here) New York Times openly admits domestic terror plots masterminded by the FBI; FBI 'entrapment' tactics questioned in web of phony terror plots and paid informants; FBI intercepts its own terrorist plot against US Capitol, Pentagon; FBI nabs five mastermind 'geniuses' after teaching them how to blow up a bridge in Cleveland; New York Times...Terrorist Plots, Hatched by the F.B.I.... - Question: How does an unemployed medical student afford $20,000 in weapons gear? Was there an accomplice? - ...Holmes had $26,000 Federal grant for studies.... Colorado theater shooting suspect was neuroscience Ph.D. student: Where does an unemployed, introverted medical school student get the training to deploy sophisticated booby traps, tactical body armor, weapons systems, and more.; Staged just in time for the vote on the UN Small Arms Treaty? Was it part of a deliberate plot like the Fast and Furious Scandal? (see file on Gunrunner-Gate), Obama made sure to visit the victims...-More claims that the shooting was a staged event: Colorado Shooting Patsy Was Under Air Force Psychiatrist's Care; Real life shooting imitates training exercise at Parker medical school; Obama orders flags flown at half-staff Jenny Gallagher, a nurse who treated victims of the Batman shooting in Aurora, Colorado is dead at age 46. The reported cause of death: drowning. Said, she "saw everything at Hospital" Stephen Ivens FBI special agent: Body Found. Worked in counter terrorism. Is the FBI Investigating Obama? Video: What Really Happened To FBI Special Agent Stephen Ivens?; FBI Agent Fleeing Massive Manhunt Warns "Theyre All Insane": Speculation of a 'False Flag' operation such as Operation Northwoods. Shortly before his death: Donald Sachtleben, former FBI agent, arrested on child pornography charges. Note: Two Hikers happened to find Ivens' body, but over 100 FBI agents could not Eric Holders Two Decades Of Concealing Murder; Brother of Murder Victim Seeks Details of FBIs 'Sensitive Informant Program'; Are FBI Informants Working Inside America's Churches? Interview with Trentadue's brother: Clinton/Obama/Holder connection to Trentadue murder Eric Holder and the Strange Case of Kennth Michael Trentadue (PDF); Training Ground For Eric Holders Fast And Furious Cover-up, Part 1; Part 2; Part 3; Part 4 Obama restores funding to the brutal government of Indonesia. -...(2010)...Widow of Murdered Indonesian Human Rights Activist Munir Calls on Indonesia to Hold His Govt. Killers Responsible... Munir fell suddenly ill: Secret Government Squad blamed -"Kopassus"... who has poisoned political dissidents: Obama grew up in Indonesia during the brutal Suharto years Following Orders: The Death of Vince Foster, Clinton White House Lawyer
Robert Plumlee interview: worked as a pilot for clandestine CIA flights, transporting arms to Cuba before Castro took power. He discussed how scandals from Iran-Contra to the failed presidential bid of Senator Gary Hart all tie-in to breaking international stories in the news today. In a wide ranging interview, linked past murders and coverups in past administrations to current murrders. Linked muders in the Iran/Contra scandal under Reagan to murders in Mena (Arkansas) under Clinton to current murderous scandals such as Chris Stevens and SEALs deaths under 'Extortion 17" together as part of an ongoing weapons and gun smuggling for profit. Claims that groups inside the intelligence community run guns for huge cash dumps which buys off politicians and news outlets. Murder is used as a means to silence whistleblowers. Full interview which was aired on the Coast to Coast AM all night broadcast on November 2/3 with John B. Wells (host) may be heard HERE (membership required) other page link to interview located HERE
The Clinton Dead Pool File: Former Hillary Associate Claims to Have Been Her Personal Hit Man Admits to Killing for Money (See Nachumlist Clinton Dead Pool File: Here)
Camp Bastion: Jihad Friday gets bloodier: Attack on Camp Bastion in Afghanistan, 2 Marines reportedly killed; Deafening silence about the Camp Bastion attack; Camp Bastion Families Want Answers About Afghanistan; Uncovering the Camp Bastion cover-up; Two Marine generals fired in wake of brazen Taliban attack on Camp Bastion
The Boston Marathon Bombing: (See Boston Marathon Massacre file) Did authorities have word before of an attack on the Boston Marathon?: Bomb Sniffing Dogs: Saudi held in Boston terror bombing "smelled of gunpowder"...asked: Did anyone die?; Kerry meeting with Saudi Foreign Minister abruptly closed; Injured Saudi is a witness, not a suspect, in Boston bombing; no other suspects; "Innocent" Saudi has ties to several Al-Qaeda Terrorists; AMERICAN AIRLINES flight grounded after passengers panic over Iraqis shouting to each other in Arabic; American Airlines grounds flights nationwide due to glitch; Drastic security changes coming to large-scale public events, experts say; Numerous other bomb threats to institutions throughout the nation; Pictures at the Boston Marathon made public after the FBI said they had no suspects; Michael Savage Interviews Walid Shoebat on Boston Marathon Bombing Incident - 4/16/13; Arrest has been made in Boston marathon bombing and suspect will be brought to court after a 'dark-skinned male'; Authorities change story:- Feds deny reports of Boston suspect in custody; Boston bomber is caught on camera: FBI reveals store footage shows 'dark-skinned man in backwards hat' planting second explosive moments before blasts tore through marathon crowds; FBI Cancels Boston Bombs News Conference; Obama meets with Saudi foreign minister, discusses Syria; Saudi National & Exchange Student Ali Alharbi Is Being Deported Back to Kingdom; Saudi National in Boston Bombing being deported on "National Security Grounds"; Photo of questioned Saudi in Hospital after Boston bombings, and more unanswered questions; Saudi National Once Considered 'Person of Interest' May Be Deported on 'Security' Grounds - And How Its Supposed to Be Framed; Boston runners were warned: Squamish man: 'If you run tomorrow, you're going to die'; 1 of 2 suspects in Boston bombing killed ... "World View: ISLAM"; Boston Bombing Suspect Posted Video on Al Qaeda Prophecy on YouTube; Report: Alharbi visited by Michelle Obama in Hospital; Boston Jihadi Bombers members of Wahhabi cell funded by Saudi Al Qaeda; FBI Boston Bombing Video Altered To Hide Fact Bomber Was Black Ops Mercenary?; Authorities change story:- Feds deny reports of Boston suspect in custody; Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and the Imam; Source-Saudi National's Deportation Record Altered; Boston marathon bombing happened on same day as 'controlled explosion' drill by Boston bomb squad; Interview With Boston Marathon Eyewitness Confirms Bomb Squad Drill; Senator: Law Enforcement May Have Had Advance Warning of Boston Bombings (video); Did CNN use "Crisis Actors"?; Report: Federal Judge Compromised Investigation By Prematurely Mirandizing Tsarnaev; FBI Orders the State of Florida Medical Examiner to Keep Boston Bombing Friend's Autopsy Secret (Ibragim Todashev) '
FBI Special Agents Christopher Lorek and Stephen Shaw: 2 FBI Agents Involved in Dzhokar Tsarnaev's Arrest "FALL" Out of Helicopter and Die; The 2 FBI Agents Who Arrested Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Did Not Die Mysteriously
Ibragim Todashev: Feds: Man shot after attacking agent was being questioned about Boston bombing suspects and 2011 triple murder
Algerian massacre: Algerian Terrorists Demand Release of Blind Sheik in Exchange for American Hostages: Theory- another false flag
The Sandy Hook school massacre: (Also see The Sandy Hook Massacre Page on Nachumlist)27 people shot dead in school shooting. including children. Shooter commits suicide. White House immediately exploits murders for gun control attempts as Obama goes to Sandy Hook and speaks. Gun control legislation immediately called for. White House fundraises using Sandy Hook. Connecticut state police warned that people posting "misinformation" on social media websites would be "investigated and prosecuted." - Initial reports that a "second gunman" arrested in the woods behind the school was involved in the massacre were later dropped without explanation. Facebook Suspends Account For Questioning Official Narrative on Shooting; Adam Lanza's Hard Drive Damaged Beyond Repair? Motive for Shooting Hidden: Adam Lanza Was On Antipsychotic Drug Known To Cause Aggressive Behavior,--- Something Strange About Robbie Parker.. Video:.Robbie Parker, the Father of slain child comes to microphone- laughing... Video: then tears up for the camera.. within a day, sets up a fund: Emillie Parker Fund, to raise money; Emilie Parker family plans memorial, fund for fellow victims; Russian Report (rumor?) on Sandy Hook Massacre: Connecticut Massacre Blamed On Son Of Top CIA Analyst: Russian rumor continued: Hunger Games "Experiment" Said Behind Connecticut Massacre; Nancy Lanza Not a Teacher?; Conspiracy Theory: Sandy Hook Massacre a ritual killing; Hiram Masonic Temple next to Sandy Hook school; Sandy Hook Shooting: Grieving Parents Hoax..Worked for Home Security as Crisis Actors; Another pair of actors in Sandy hoax exposed. 100% BUSTED!: Website: crisisactors.org; Crisis Actors: Are They Being Used To Fake Events?; Video: The Sandy Hook Actors PART 1; Part 2; Part 3; Video: Sandy Hook Actors Exposed? Same as Giffords Shooting? Banking connection to murderer's parent Lanza: Peter Lanza's Libor Bid Rigging Connection: -Nancy Lanza a Morgan Stanley Investment Broker; Police Officer Exposes The Unanswered Questions Of The Sandy Hook Tragedy; Three Days Before Shooting "United Way Extends Our Most Sincere Condolences To Sandy Hook Families"; United Way: No, we didn't know about Dec. 14 Sandy Hook shooting in advance..."flawed Google search..."; Sandy Hook Massacre Linked to DHS Exercise?; Prominent rifle manufacturer killed in mysterious car crash days after posting psych drug link to school shooters; Anderson Cooper Goes After 'Anonymous Internet Trolls' Pushing Conspiracies About Newtown And Gun Control; The Sandy Hook Shooting - Fully Exposed (VIDEO); Sandy Hook - The Truth (Controversial Documentary) That DHS spent two years in Sandy Hook running training drills 2005 London Subway Bombing, 9/11 2001Terror Attack, 2012 Sandy Hook Massacre all had a version or versions of the Dept. of Homeland Security running drills or class courses in the exact same place at the exact same time... "Planning for the needs of children in disasters" Set at the same exact time and in the exact same location as the Sandy Hook Massacre; What Was DHS Doing In Sandy Hook? False Flag Two Years In The Making Or Department Of Homeland Security Fail?; Today Show: No assault weapons used in Sandy Hook Massacre; NBC Admitted: No 'Assault Rifle' Used in Newtown Shooting; Still No Police Report, or Toxicology Results, on Sandy Hook Killer; Sandy Hook Elementary shooter has no brain deformities, medical examiner says; Sandy Hook Conspiracy Theories Edge Toward The Mainstream; CNN video of police charge at Sandy Hook is not Sandy Hook; Probe of Newtown shooter Adam Lanza focusing on murderer's 'psychotic break' and unlocked guns; Sandy Hook Panel Set to Begin Review of School Shooting; Newtown Is Hometown of Sugarmann; His Group Seeks Assault Weapons Ban- Josh Sugermann founded Violence Policy Center (VPC) after leaving The Coalition to Ban Handguns in 1988. He is generally credited with mainstreaming the term assault weapon in his 1988 work - Assault weapons and accessories in America; Foreign language heard being spoken in the Sandy Hook raw footage; We Take You Inside the Mind of a Sandy Hook Truther: CIA Conspiracy? 7 Shooters? An Attempt to 'Disarm People and Attack the 2nd Amendment'?; Sandy Hook DA cites 'potential suspects,' fears witness safety; Detectives investigating Newtown massacre find Adam Lanza's violent video games, ponder the 20-year-old mimicking a gory game scene; SSDI changed Adam Lanza's date-of-death from Dec. 13 to Dec. 14, 2012...according to the original SSDI entry, the man who we are told was the lone gunman who perpetrated the Sandy Hook massacre, had died the day before he killed his 27 victims; Conn. massacre records secret, media seek access; Newtown clerk refuses to issue Sandy Hook victims' death certificates; WATCH 'Fell Off The Face Of The Earth' - CNN: No Record Of Adam Lanza Existence Since 2009; ...-Sandy Hook Shooting: Active-Shooter Drill Confirmed by Law Enforcement Raises Suspicion of False Flag Operation; Beck: Cover-Up of Saudi Link to Boston Bombing 'is so Far Beyond Benghazi' it is Criminal ... (full audio HERE 13:07); Report: Boston Jihadis Were U.S./Saudi Agents Who Turned On Their Masters; Photos: Private military operatives hired to 'work' the Boston marathon with black backpacks, radiation detectors, tactical gear ; Psyops: Mind Control Marathon and Boston Bombings; Boston Bombings a 'Gift' to Putin, Says Chechen Opposition Leader; Report: Federal Judge Compromised Investigation By Prematurely Mirandizing Tsarnaev; Tamerlan Tsarnaev Triple Murders Were ALL Jews Targeted for Religion on 10th Anniv of 9/11... - Three mourned after brutal Waltham murder; Newtown shooter toxicology results released; Whistleblower Joseph Ametrano Reveals Sandy Hook as Staged Event; Secrecy shrouds Sandy Hook shooting investigation
US Terror-Storm Lurking as Possible False Flag Averted... - Roy Antigua, recently arrested with a plethora of fake ID's, and disguises, including medical smocks, and other outfits.
Sikh Temple Massacre: Army Vet Wade Michael Page Identified as Wisconsin Temple Shooter, 'Psychological operations specialist'; "White Supremacist" Who Spent Time In Eastern Carolina And Ft. Bragg; Sikh temple shooter who gunned down six was skinhead 'white supremacist' army vet 'with 9/11 tattoo and was part of race hate group'; Read The Letter Congress Sent To The Attorney General Months Ago Addressing Hate Crimes Against Sikhs; Conference of Mayors, ...Calls for Stricter Gun Laws Following Sikh Temple Shooting; FBI Takes Over the Investigation; India blames the White House for the Wisconsin Massacre; Obama: America needs "soul searching" on gun violence; FBI: Sikh temple shooter Wade Page died of self-inflicted gunshot; Obama orders flags at half-staff after Wisconsin shooting; Wisconsin Sikh Temple mass shooting: FOUR shooters, not one as officially reported
Aurora massacre: several links between James Holmes and U.S. government research (Salk Institute involved in neurologically enhancing soldiers abilities on battlefield connections to DARPA); Holmes Family Has Deep DARPA Connections; A growing number of alternative media publications are now claiming that an October 2011 photograph of an Occupy Wall Street (OWS) protester getting carted off by law enforcement officials in New York is of none other than the Colorado Killer, James Holmes; More Signs Point to James E. Holmes As Occupy Black Bloc Member-... Plotted to Kill Cops With Firebombs Just Like Black Bloc Chicago; Picture of Holmes arrested in New York Protest; Fox Reporter Won't Name Sources in Aurora Shooting Story; Faces Jail
More on the Aurora massacre: Colorado Shooting victims: Was Colorado Shooting Staged By The Government? (video link on YouTube here) New York Times openly admits domestic terror plots masterminded by the FBI; FBI 'entrapment' tactics questioned in web of phony terror plots and paid informants; FBI intercepts its own terrorist plot against US Capitol, Pentagon; FBI nabs five mastermind 'geniuses' after teaching them how to blow up a bridge in Cleveland; New York Times...Terrorist Plots, Hatched by the F.B.I.... - Question: How does an unemployed medical student afford $20,000 in weapons gear? Was there an accomplice? - ...Holmes had $26,000 Federal grant for studies.... Colorado theater shooting suspect was neuroscience Ph.D. student: Where does an unemployed, introverted medical school student get the training to deploy sophisticated booby traps, tactical body armor, weapons systems, and more.; Staged just in time for the vote on the UN Small Arms Treaty? Was it part of a deliberate plot like the Fast and Furious Scandal? (see file on Gunrunner-Gate), Obama made sure to visit the victims...-More claims that the shooting was a staged event: Colorado Shooting Patsy Was Under Air Force Psychiatrist's Care; Real life shooting imitates training exercise at Parker medical school; Obama orders flags flown at half-staff
Jenny Gallagher, a nurse who treated victims of the Batman shooting in Aurora, Colorado is dead at age 46. The reported cause of death: drowning. Said, she "saw everything at Hospital"
Stephen Ivens FBI special agent: Body Found. Worked in counter terrorism. Is the FBI Investigating Obama? Video: What Really Happened To FBI Special Agent Stephen Ivens?; FBI Agent Fleeing Massive Manhunt Warns "Theyre All Insane": Speculation of a 'False Flag' operation such as Operation Northwoods. Shortly before his death: Donald Sachtleben, former FBI agent, arrested on child pornography charges. Note: Two Hikers happened to find Ivens' body, but over 100 FBI agents could not
Eric Holders Two Decades Of Concealing Murder; Brother of Murder Victim Seeks Details of FBIs 'Sensitive Informant Program'; Are FBI Informants Working Inside America's Churches?
Interview with Trentadue's brother: Clinton/Obama/Holder connection to Trentadue murder
Eric Holder and the Strange Case of Kennth Michael Trentadue (PDF); Training Ground For Eric Holders Fast And Furious Cover-up, Part 1; Part 2; Part 3; Part 4
Obama restores funding to the brutal government of Indonesia. -...(2010)...Widow of Murdered Indonesian Human Rights Activist Munir Calls on Indonesia to Hold His Govt. Killers Responsible... Munir fell suddenly ill: Secret Government Squad blamed -"Kopassus"... who has poisoned political dissidents: Obama grew up in Indonesia during the brutal Suharto years
Following Orders: The Death of Vince Foster, Clinton White House Lawyer
Working Theories...
Dr. Jim Garrow's Claims, refutations by opponants (labled a fraud) Obama Administration Preparing For Civil War While Searching For Generals To Fire on Americans; .Interview with Dr. Jim Garrow details support and threats he's received: "Obama does kill people"; claims that among the recent murders are Tom Clancy, Andrew Breitbart, and journalist Michael Hastings.- Interview with Alex Jones; Forcing military to resign if they 'refuse to fire on American citizens', disarmament of civilians, destruction of the American Democracy, inviting Chinese military to disarm the population, Dr. Jim Garrow: Obama Born in Kenya; Garrow claims of civil war refuted: accused of being a liar and trafficking children; Garrow called a pedophile and a liar.: Garrow called a "Hoax", Duped! Hysterical Obama Hoax Shows Zionist Trail... Dr. Jim Garrow Obama Hoax Debunk'd Refutations, by Gordon Duff, Senior Editor Veterans Today. (Nachumlist file of military brass removed by Obama) Brittany Murphy: Report claims Brittany Murphy was poisoned Dr. Perry Inhofe, son of Senator James Inhoff: Jim Inhofe's orthopedic surgeon son dies piloting private aircraft in fireball crash outside Tulsa, Senator Inhofe is known for his conservative stances on issues such as gay rights, global warming and Obamacare; In 1999 Sen. Inhoff makes emergency landing as the propeller came off his plane. FBI was asked to investigate. SEAL Team 6 Somali Raid Goes Bad: .Official: Navy SEAL team pulled out when it couldn't capture suspect alive ..did Obama deliberately send SEAL Team 6 into a 'meat grinder'? How the SEAL Raid on Somalia Went Bad; White House confirms Obama ordered African raids
Dr. Jim Garrow's Claims, refutations by opponants (labled a fraud) Obama Administration Preparing For Civil War While Searching For Generals To Fire on Americans; .Interview with Dr. Jim Garrow details support and threats he's received: "Obama does kill people"; claims that among the recent murders are Tom Clancy, Andrew Breitbart, and journalist Michael Hastings.- Interview with Alex Jones; Forcing military to resign if they 'refuse to fire on American citizens', disarmament of civilians, destruction of the American Democracy, inviting Chinese military to disarm the population, Dr. Jim Garrow: Obama Born in Kenya; Garrow claims of civil war refuted: accused of being a liar and trafficking children; Garrow called a pedophile and a liar.: Garrow called a "Hoax", Duped! Hysterical Obama Hoax Shows Zionist Trail... Dr. Jim Garrow Obama Hoax Debunk'd Refutations, by Gordon Duff, Senior Editor Veterans Today. (Nachumlist file of military brass removed by Obama)
Brittany Murphy: Report claims Brittany Murphy was poisoned
Dr. Perry Inhofe, son of Senator James Inhoff: Jim Inhofe's orthopedic surgeon son dies piloting private aircraft in fireball crash outside Tulsa, Senator Inhofe is known for his conservative stances on issues such as gay rights, global warming and Obamacare; In 1999 Sen. Inhoff makes emergency landing as the propeller came off his plane. FBI was asked to investigate.
SEAL Team 6 Somali Raid Goes Bad: .Official: Navy SEAL team pulled out when it couldn't capture suspect alive ..did Obama deliberately send SEAL Team 6 into a 'meat grinder'? How the SEAL Raid on Somalia Went Bad; White House confirms Obama ordered African raids
Gungrabbing False Flags?
Charts: Half the deadliest shootings in U.S. history happened in past six years; see: Obama vs. The 2nd Amendment; The Gunwalker Scandal; CIA, mind control & mass shootings - Is there a correlation?; Microwave Frequency Warfare, The Real Cold War; Navy Yard shooter thought he was controlled by radio waves: FBI; Reporters to reveal 'US assassination program'; Journalists to investigate the NSA's role in 'assassinations program'; Miriam Carey rams car into the White House and is gunned down, Thought that Obama was "Stalking her": Connecticut woman gunned down in DC believed Obama was communicating with her, report says .. Exercise CAPITAL SHIELD 2014 was ongoing at the same time as the woman's shooting, part of which was training for "law enforcement tactical response"; The Miriam Carey story was originally picked up by Al-Hurra, a US-funded Arabic news organ. and disseminated by the Guardian. - theory: Carey's attack was performed as law enforcement deployed to resond with personnel who were training for the exact incident. The event was then covered by a non-US news news source and disseminated to U.S. and world media to control the exact description of the narrative. (Miriam Carey) Police pulled child from car THEN executed woman; Dr. Jim Garrow Claims Obama Asked Military Leaders If They Will "Fire On US Citizens"; Have Barack Obama and Eric Holder Caused an Increase in Mass Murder? LAX Shooting of TSA Agent:: LAX Gunman Identified After Airport Shooting Spree; Did TSA know LAX attack coming? Agents trained for shooting at checkpoint, taught to 'save themselves'; Police hold active shooter drill at L.A./Ontario International Airport; TSA was training for checkpoint shooting 9 months ago; LAX Shooting A Set Up? Police Chief: We practiced to this; not more than 3 weeks ago. We took everyone of our officers, ervery one of our patrol officers, and a couple of hundred officers from the Los Angeles Police Department; and we practiced the exact scenario that played out today [we played out today]. And, I was talking to the officers .; Homeland Security chief says mental illness a "major factor" in Ciancia shooting; TSA union calls for armed guards at every checkpoint; Arming TSA officers hits resistance on the Hill; LAX shooting: TSA officer Hernandez bled for 33 minutes at scene -report ...-; Claim the bleeding TSA officer was a fake- LAX TSA Cops Totally Busted in the Worst Fake of All The Navy Yard Massacre: Washington Navy Yard Shooting: 13 People Confirmed Dead, Including Shooter; CBS Article page on event; Navy Yard Shooting Gunman Aaron Alexis Created A Website With Name"Mohammed Salem": Administration immediately goes after guns citing the massacre: Obama accuses gun control opponents of fighting to allow 'dangerous people' to own guns; Obama urges new gun law push at CBC Foundation dinner; Was The Navy Yard Shooting Tied To Obama Being Tried For Treason?; Was the U.S. government planning to detonate a nuke in Washington DC? The FEMA Washington DC nuclear detonation scenario report (2011, pdf)
Charts: Half the deadliest shootings in U.S. history happened in past six years; see: Obama vs. The 2nd Amendment; The Gunwalker Scandal; CIA, mind control & mass shootings - Is there a correlation?; Microwave Frequency Warfare, The Real Cold War; Navy Yard shooter thought he was controlled by radio waves: FBI; Reporters to reveal 'US assassination program'; Journalists to investigate the NSA's role in 'assassinations program'; Miriam Carey rams car into the White House and is gunned down, Thought that Obama was "Stalking her": Connecticut woman gunned down in DC believed Obama was communicating with her, report says .. Exercise CAPITAL SHIELD 2014 was ongoing at the same time as the woman's shooting, part of which was training for "law enforcement tactical response"; The Miriam Carey story was originally picked up by Al-Hurra, a US-funded Arabic news organ. and disseminated by the Guardian. - theory: Carey's attack was performed as law enforcement deployed to resond with personnel who were training for the exact incident. The event was then covered by a non-US news news source and disseminated to U.S. and world media to control the exact description of the narrative. (Miriam Carey) Police pulled child from car THEN executed woman; Dr. Jim Garrow Claims Obama Asked Military Leaders If They Will "Fire On US Citizens"; Have Barack Obama and Eric Holder Caused an Increase in Mass Murder?
LAX Shooting of TSA Agent:: LAX Gunman Identified After Airport Shooting Spree; Did TSA know LAX attack coming? Agents trained for shooting at checkpoint, taught to 'save themselves'; Police hold active shooter drill at L.A./Ontario International Airport; TSA was training for checkpoint shooting 9 months ago; LAX Shooting A Set Up? Police Chief: We practiced to this; not more than 3 weeks ago. We took everyone of our officers, ervery one of our patrol officers, and a couple of hundred officers from the Los Angeles Police Department; and we practiced the exact scenario that played out today [we played out today]. And, I was talking to the officers .; Homeland Security chief says mental illness a "major factor" in Ciancia shooting; TSA union calls for armed guards at every checkpoint; Arming TSA officers hits resistance on the Hill; LAX shooting: TSA officer Hernandez bled for 33 minutes at scene -report ...-; Claim the bleeding TSA officer was a fake- LAX TSA Cops Totally Busted in the Worst Fake of All
The Navy Yard Massacre: Washington Navy Yard Shooting: 13 People Confirmed Dead, Including Shooter; CBS Article page on event; Navy Yard Shooting Gunman Aaron Alexis Created A Website With Name"Mohammed Salem": Administration immediately goes after guns citing the massacre: Obama accuses gun control opponents of fighting to allow 'dangerous people' to own guns; Obama urges new gun law push at CBC Foundation dinner; Was The Navy Yard Shooting Tied To Obama Being Tried For Treason?; Was the U.S. government planning to detonate a nuke in Washington DC? The FEMA Washington DC nuclear detonation scenario report (2011, pdf)
Other Working Theory Events
Obama's Syrian Adventure: Theory: The White House manufactures chemical weapons crisis to invade Syria: Daily Mail (UK) Scrubs Jan 2013 Story fr Site: Obama Planned to Stage Chemical Attack, Blame Assad Regime: See Nachumlist Obama and Syria file; SYRIA: "No boots on the ground" but 300 Marines on board USS San Antonio "just in case"; Did the White House Help Plan the Syrian Chemical Attack?; Flashback September 2012: Panetta: We've Lost Track of Some Syrian Chemical Weapons Lockerbie Arms/ Benghazi/UK/White House Connections: Theory: Arms and murder connections in Libya transcend administations in a long term program with terrorists, international arms dealers, multiple US administrations foreign countries, and murder for hire. Britain: Lockerbie bomber release linked to arms deal, according to secret letter; Email links Lockerbie bomber's prison transfer to £400m Libyan arms deal; The Czech connection In 1991 the Czech weapons factories were "de-centralized" and began business as free market companies. In 1992, Ceská zbrojovka a.s. (PLC), Uherský Brod became private, moving into the free world economy and eventually establishing a small arms presence in over 60 countries. In 1997 CZUB established a permanent presence in the United States with the founding of CZ-USA. CZUB and CZ-USA continue to expand and dominate the small arms market world wide, with military, police, defensive, sporting and recreational firearms. The CZUB factory employs some 2000+ engineers, craftsmen and business personnel, making it one of the largest firearms manufacturers in the world. Czech... one of biggest buyers of meth...perhaps 10% of population: Czech Republic leads Europe in meth labs. Czech arms dealer attacked- Czech fugitive survives James Bond-style attack in South Africa; South Africa connection South Africa... gold traded for arms... Canadian/Israeli gold mining companies managing many SA mines. Krejcir gets 11 years for fraud State District Judge Tom Greenwell; Nueces County sheriff: Judge found dead at courthouse: suicide; Nueces County sheriff: 'Strong leads' on Judge Greenwell's suicide motive Phillip Marshall; Murders Children & Self in CA, 9/11 Conspiracy Author, Each had been shot once in the head with a handgun, as was the family's dog. Phillip Marshall has been identified as a former pilot for Eastern and United airlines. He self-published a number of books, including at least two about his 9/11 conspiracy theories: The Big Bamboozle (February 9, 2012) and False Flag 911: How Bush, Cheney and the Saudis Created the Post-911 World (July 29, 2008). Additional information: A previous novel published in 2003, "Lakefront Airport, New Orleans," detailed his claimed experience as a pilot for the US during Iran/Contra. claims to have served as a contract pilot for the CIA's Special Activities Division during the Iran-Contra affair, flying shipments to and from Nicaragua; "100% Certain": 9/11 Author Was Killed in Black Ops Hit; CIA Killed Phillip Marshall for Leaking 9/11 Secrets: Dr. Kevin Barrett Trayvon Martin Riots?: Documents Detail the Dept of Justices Role in Organizing Trayvon Martin Protests; New Black Panther Party alledgedly busing mobs to Sanford, Florida for expected riots; Sanford Police Prepare for Zimmerman Riots; Twitter reports of whites killed in N Miami over Zimmerman verdict; Protests erupt from coast to coast after George Zimmerman goes FREE: Times Square swarmed and Los Angeles freeway mobbed in second day of demonstrations; Little Rock Police kill possible unarmed suspect, crowd starts yelling "Trayvon Martin" ; Witness claims youths yelled 'this is for Trayvon' in beating; Zimmerman's parents in hiding from 'enormous amount of death threats'; Police say Jogger Attacked in Wake of Zimmerman Verdict; Teens with Free Zimmerman bumper sticker slaughtered in Jacksonville; DOJ solicits email tips in Zimmerman civil rights probe; John Fahy: suicide MSNBC Analyst Found Dead From Self-Inflicted Gunshot Wound Indiana Fertilizer Plant Explosion Kills 1: UNION MILLS, Ind. -- An explosion at a fertilizer plant in northwest Indiana has killed one person. Waco Fertilizer Plant fire explodes. Theory: Object seen on video coming in and ignigting a great explosion- WATCH Call To Debunkers For Newest Conspiracy Theory: 'Object' Slams Into Waco Plant, Causing Explosion . Event occurs shortly after Boston Marathon Massacre; Texas plant explosion a bombing? Officials open up criminal investigation after man found with 'destructive device' Boston Brakes: Assassination by car accidents Does Obama murder people?... Interview with Dr. Jim Garrow details support and threats he's received: "Obama does kill people" (audio);Blogger overhears intel officials saying NSA leaker should be 'disappeared' (See Obama and Your Privacy): Code name 'Verax': Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risks- The U.S. intelligence community, he wrote, "will most certainly kill you if they think you are the single point of failure that could stop this disclosure and make them the sole owner of this information." U.S. Crew Members: on KC-135 Tanker Dead in crash. 3rd US Military Support Plane Crashes In Afghanistan In Less Than A Week, 3 Crew From Crash Not Yet Found: Bodies Of Two Crew Members Found At Kyrgyz Crash Site Sunil Tripathi: (Boston Massacre Suspect)Missing student's body possibly located in Providence river Police in Providence fished a body out of the river they believe may belong to missing student ...Reddit Thread, speculation on why Tripathi went missing Anne Smedinghoff, young U.S. diplomat killed in an attack in southern Afghanistan: Shades of Benghazi: State Department changes story on Afghanistan blast that killed diplomat; Assassination Incorporated 1600 Penn Avenue: The Smedinghoff Murder- author claims that the White House and NSA directed an assassination of Smedinghoff. ICE Union Boss: Obama Doesn't Care If Immigration Enforcement Officers Die Tim Russert: Died of a massive heart attack... just before the 2008 presidential debates, that he might have moderated. Sex And Murder In The Land Of Obama?: Unknown gay partner of Obama murdered? Tale of alleged witness Crossing Obama Can Be Deadly! (...thread at "We the People") Mysterious Deaths Surround Obama! Military Suicides Hit New High
Obama's Syrian Adventure: Theory: The White House manufactures chemical weapons crisis to invade Syria: Daily Mail (UK) Scrubs Jan 2013 Story fr Site: Obama Planned to Stage Chemical Attack, Blame Assad Regime: See Nachumlist Obama and Syria file; SYRIA: "No boots on the ground" but 300 Marines on board USS San Antonio "just in case"; Did the White House Help Plan the Syrian Chemical Attack?; Flashback September 2012: Panetta: We've Lost Track of Some Syrian Chemical Weapons
Lockerbie Arms/ Benghazi/UK/White House Connections: Theory: Arms and murder connections in Libya transcend administations in a long term program with terrorists, international arms dealers, multiple US administrations foreign countries, and murder for hire. Britain: Lockerbie bomber release linked to arms deal, according to secret letter; Email links Lockerbie bomber's prison transfer to £400m Libyan arms deal; The Czech connection In 1991 the Czech weapons factories were "de-centralized" and began business as free market companies. In 1992, Ceská zbrojovka a.s. (PLC), Uherský Brod became private, moving into the free world economy and eventually establishing a small arms presence in over 60 countries. In 1997 CZUB established a permanent presence in the United States with the founding of CZ-USA. CZUB and CZ-USA continue to expand and dominate the small arms market world wide, with military, police, defensive, sporting and recreational firearms. The CZUB factory employs some 2000+ engineers, craftsmen and business personnel, making it one of the largest firearms manufacturers in the world. Czech... one of biggest buyers of meth...perhaps 10% of population: Czech Republic leads Europe in meth labs. Czech arms dealer attacked- Czech fugitive survives James Bond-style attack in South Africa; South Africa connection South Africa... gold traded for arms... Canadian/Israeli gold mining companies managing many SA mines. Krejcir gets 11 years for fraud
State District Judge Tom Greenwell; Nueces County sheriff: Judge found dead at courthouse: suicide; Nueces County sheriff: 'Strong leads' on Judge Greenwell's suicide motive
Phillip Marshall; Murders Children & Self in CA, 9/11 Conspiracy Author, Each had been shot once in the head with a handgun, as was the family's dog. Phillip Marshall has been identified as a former pilot for Eastern and United airlines. He self-published a number of books, including at least two about his 9/11 conspiracy theories: The Big Bamboozle (February 9, 2012) and False Flag 911: How Bush, Cheney and the Saudis Created the Post-911 World (July 29, 2008). Additional information: A previous novel published in 2003, "Lakefront Airport, New Orleans," detailed his claimed experience as a pilot for the US during Iran/Contra. claims to have served as a contract pilot for the CIA's Special Activities Division during the Iran-Contra affair, flying shipments to and from Nicaragua; "100% Certain": 9/11 Author Was Killed in Black Ops Hit; CIA Killed Phillip Marshall for Leaking 9/11 Secrets: Dr. Kevin Barrett
Trayvon Martin Riots?: Documents Detail the Dept of Justices Role in Organizing Trayvon Martin Protests; New Black Panther Party alledgedly busing mobs to Sanford, Florida for expected riots; Sanford Police Prepare for Zimmerman Riots; Twitter reports of whites killed in N Miami over Zimmerman verdict; Protests erupt from coast to coast after George Zimmerman goes FREE: Times Square swarmed and Los Angeles freeway mobbed in second day of demonstrations; Little Rock Police kill possible unarmed suspect, crowd starts yelling "Trayvon Martin" ; Witness claims youths yelled 'this is for Trayvon' in beating; Zimmerman's parents in hiding from 'enormous amount of death threats'; Police say Jogger Attacked in Wake of Zimmerman Verdict; Teens with Free Zimmerman bumper sticker slaughtered in Jacksonville; DOJ solicits email tips in Zimmerman civil rights probe; John Fahy: suicide MSNBC Analyst Found Dead From Self-Inflicted Gunshot Wound
Indiana Fertilizer Plant Explosion Kills 1: UNION MILLS, Ind. -- An explosion at a fertilizer plant in northwest Indiana has killed one person.
Waco Fertilizer Plant fire explodes. Theory: Object seen on video coming in and ignigting a great explosion- WATCH Call To Debunkers For Newest Conspiracy Theory: 'Object' Slams Into Waco Plant, Causing Explosion . Event occurs shortly after Boston Marathon Massacre; Texas plant explosion a bombing? Officials open up criminal investigation after man found with 'destructive device'
Boston Brakes: Assassination by car accidents
Does Obama murder people?... Interview with Dr. Jim Garrow details support and threats he's received: "Obama does kill people" (audio);Blogger overhears intel officials saying NSA leaker should be 'disappeared' (See Obama and Your Privacy): Code name 'Verax': Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risks- The U.S. intelligence community, he wrote, "will most certainly kill you if they think you are the single point of failure that could stop this disclosure and make them the sole owner of this information."
U.S. Crew Members: on KC-135 Tanker Dead in crash. 3rd US Military Support Plane Crashes In Afghanistan In Less Than A Week, 3 Crew From Crash Not Yet Found: Bodies Of Two Crew Members Found At Kyrgyz Crash Site
Sunil Tripathi: (Boston Massacre Suspect)Missing student's body possibly located in Providence river Police in Providence fished a body out of the river they believe may belong to missing student ...Reddit Thread, speculation on why Tripathi went missing
Anne Smedinghoff, young U.S. diplomat killed in an attack in southern Afghanistan: Shades of Benghazi: State Department changes story on Afghanistan blast that killed diplomat; Assassination Incorporated 1600 Penn Avenue: The Smedinghoff Murder- author claims that the White House and NSA directed an assassination of Smedinghoff.
ICE Union Boss: Obama Doesn't Care If Immigration Enforcement Officers Die
Tim Russert: Died of a massive heart attack... just before the 2008 presidential debates, that he might have moderated.
Sex And Murder In The Land Of Obama?: Unknown gay partner of Obama murdered? Tale of alleged witness
Crossing Obama Can Be Deadly! (...thread at "We the People") Mysterious Deaths Surround Obama!
Military Suicides Hit New High
The ones that got away?...
Revealed: Medal of Honor hero's anger that his request for backup was denied TEN TIMES while he single-handedly fought for seven hours against 60 Taliban Massad Ayoob, firearms expert, was in helicopter that crashed in St. Lucie County on Saturday.
Revealed: Medal of Honor hero's anger that his request for backup was denied TEN TIMES while he single-handedly fought for seven hours against 60 Taliban
Massad Ayoob, firearms expert, was in helicopter that crashed in St. Lucie County on Saturday.
Return to Obama - A "New" Sociopolitical Era or The Greatest Deception?
Return to Psychopaths and Psychopathy - A Ponerological "Branch"
