# The Illuminati and the Council on Foreign Relations - 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_illuminati_4.htm

There were more lives lost in the "Great War" - the First World War - than in any other war in history. For instance, more men were slaughtered in one battle during the First World War - "the [so-called] war to end all wars" - [and why was that exact phrase coined?] than in the whole of the Second World War. What has seemed up until now to have been totally illogical military-strategy, now makes perfect sense, if you wanted as many of your own men to be killed as possible. That strategy was that the British soldiers were ordered to walk slowly towards the German machine-guns and not to charge them or take-cover, resulting in horrendous carnage. If they disobeyed, then they were placed in front of a firing-squad of their own comrades, so, either way, they would be sure to die.
"Actually that was the format set by the Illuminati and Nathan Rothschild at the turn of the 19th century. They first maneuvered all of Europe into the "Napoleonic Wars," then the "Congress in Vienna" which they, and particularly Rothschild, planned to transform into a "League of Nations" which was to have been the housing for their one-world government, exactly as the present "United Nations" was set up to be the housing for the forthcoming, God forbid, one-world government. Anyway, that was the format the House of Rothschild and Jacob Schiff decided to employ to achieve their objective in 1914. Of course they knew that the same format had failed in 1814, but they theorized that this was only because the Czar of Russia had torpedoed that scheme. Well, the present 1914 conspirators would eliminate that 1814 fly in the ointment. Theyd make sure that after the new world war that they were conspiring, thered be no Czar of Russia around to throw monkey-wrenches into the machinery. "I will go into how they accomplished this first step to launch a world war. History records that World War I was precipitated by a trivial incident, the kind of incident both Weishaupt and Albert Pike had incorporated in their blueprints. That incident was the assassination of an Austrian Archduke arranged by the Illuminati masterminds. The war followed. It involved Germany, Austria, Hungary, and their allies, the so-called "Axis powers," against France, Britain, and Russia, called the "Allies." Only the United States was not involved during the first two years. "By 1917 the conspirators had achieved their primary objective, all of Europe was in a state of destitution. All the peoples were war-weary and crying for peace and the outcome too was all set. It was to come as soon as the United States would be hurled-in on the side of the Allies and that was all set to happen immediately after Wilsons re-election. After that, there could be only one outcome, complete victory for the Allies. To fully confirm my statement that long before 1917, the conspiracy, headed in America by Jacob Schiff, had it all set to hurl the United States into that war. I will cite the proof. "When Wilson was campaigning for re-election in 1916, his chief appeal was: "re-elect the man who will keep your sons out of the war." But during that same campaign, the Republican Party publicly charged that Wilson had long committed himself to throw us into the war. They charged that if he would be defeated he would accomplish that act during his few remaining months in office, but if re-elected, he would hold off until after the election. But at that time the American people looked upon Wilson as a "God-man." Well, Wilson was re-elected and as per the schedule of the conspirators, he hurled us into the war in 1917. He used the sinking of the Lusitania as an excuse, a sinking which also was prearranged. Roosevelt, also a God-man in the eyes of the American people, followed the same technique in 1941 when he used the prearranged Pearl Harbor attack as his excuse for hurling us into World War II. "Now exactly as the conspirators planned, victory for the Allies would eliminate all the Monarchs of the defeated Nations and leave all their people leaderless, confused, bewildered and perfectly conditioned for the one-world government, that the great conspiracy intended would follow. But there still would be an obstacle, the same obstacle that had balked the Illuminati and Rothschild at that Congress in Vienna (peace-gathering) after the Napoleonic Wars. Russia would be on the winning side this time as it was in 1814 and therefore the Czar would be securely seated on his throne. Here it is pertinent to note that Russia, under the Czarist regime, had been the one country in which the Illuminati had never made any headway nor had the Rothschilds ever been able to infiltrate-in their banking-interests thus a winning Czar would be more difficult than ever to cope with. Even if he could be enticed into a so-called "League of Nations," it was a foregone-conclusion that he would never, but never, go for a one-world government. "So even before the outbreak of World War I, the conspirators had a plan, in the making, to carry-out Nathan Rothschilds vow of 1814 to destroy the Czar and also murder all possible royal heirs to the throne and it would have to be done before the close of the war. The Russian Bolsheviks were to be their instruments in this particular plot. From the turn of the century, the chiefs of the Bolsheviks were Nicolai Lenin, Leon Trotsky, and later Joseph Stalin. Of course, those were not their true family names. Prior to the outbreak, Switzerland became their haven. Trotskys headquarters was on the lower East Side in New York, largely the habitat of Russian-Jewish refugees. Both Lenin and Trotsky were similarly bewhiskered and unkempt. In those days that was the badge of Bolshevism. Both lived well yet neither had a regular occupation. Neither had any visible means of support, yet both always had plenty of money. All those mysteries were solved in 1917. Right from the outset of the war, strange and mysterious goings-on were taking place in New York. Night after night, Trotsky darted furtively in and out of Jacob Schiffs palace-mansion and in the dead of those same nights there were a gathering of hoodlums of New Yorks lower East Side. All of them Russian refugees at Trotskys headquarters and all were going through some mysterious sort of training-process that was all shrouded in mystery. Nobody talked, although it did leak out that Schiff was financing all of Trotskys activities. "Then suddenly Trotsky vanished and so did approximately 300 of his trained hoodlums. Actually they were on the high seas in a Schiff-chartered ship bound for a rendezvous with Lenin and his gang in Switzerland. And also on that ship was $20,000,000 in gold, the $20,000,000 was provided to finance the Bolsheviks takeover of Russia. In anticipation of Trotskys arrival, Lenin prepared to throw a party in his Switzerland hideaway. Men of the very highest places in the world were to be guests at that party. Among them were the mysterious Colonel Edward Mandell House, Woodrow Wilsons mentor and palsy-walsy, and more important, Schiffs special and confidential messenger. Another of the expected guests was Warburg of the Warburg Banking Clan in Germany, who was financing the Kaiser and whom the Kaiser had rewarded by making him chief of the Secret Police of Germany. In addition, there were the Rothschilds of London and Paris also Lithenoth, Kakonavich, and Stalin (who was then the head of a train and bank robbing gang of bandits). He was known as the "Jesse James of the Urals." "And here I must remind you that England and France were then long in the war with Germany and that on February 3, 1917, Wilson had broken off all diplomatic relations with Germany. Therefore, Warburg, Colonel House, the Rothschilds, and all those others were enemies but of course, Switzerland was neutral ground where enemies could meet and be friends and especially if they had some scheme in common. That Lenin party was very nearly wrecked by an unforeseen incident. The Schiff-chartered ship on its way to Switzerland was intercepted and taken into custody by a British warship. But Schiff quickly rushed orders to Wilson to order the British to release the ship intact with Trotskys hoodlums and the gold. Wilson obeyed. He warned the British that if they refused to release the ship, the United States would not enter the war in April as he had faithfully promised a year earlier. The British heeded the warning. Trotsky arrived in Switzerland and the Lenin party went off as scheduled, but they still faced what ordinarily would have been the insurmountable obstacle of getting the Lenin-Trotsky band of terrorists across the border into Russia. Well, thats where Brother Warburg, chief of the German Secret Police, came in. He loaded all those thugs into sealed freight-cars and made all the necessary arrangements for their secret entry into Russia. The rest is history. The revolution in Russia took place and all members of the royal Romanoff family were murdered. "Now my chief objective is to establish beyond even a remote doubt that communism, so-called, is an integral part of the Illuminati great conspiracy for the enslavement of the entire world. That communism, so-called, is merely their weapon and bogy-man word to terrify the peoples of the whole world and that the conquest of Russia and the creation of communism was, in great part, organized by Schiff and the other international bankers right in our own city of New York. A fantastic story? Yes. Some might even refuse to believe it. Well, for the benefit of any "Doubting Thomas", I will prove it by reminding that just a few years ago Charlie Knickerbocker, a Hearst newspaper columnist, published an interview with John Schiff, grandson of Jacob, in which young Schiff confirmed the entire story and named the figure old Jacob contributed, $20,000,000. "If anybody still has even a remote doubt that the entire menace of communism was created by the masterminds of the great conspiracy right in our own city of New York, I will cite the following historical fact. All records show that when Lenin and Trotsky engineered the capture of Russia, they operated as heads of the Bolsheviks party. Now "Bolshevism" is a purely Russian word. The masterminds realized that Bolshevism could never be sold as an ideology to any but the Russian people. So in April 1918, Jacob Schiff dispatched Colonel House to Moscow with orders to Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin to change the name of their regime to the Communist Party and to adopt the Karl Marx "Manifesto" as the constitution of the Communist Party. Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin obeyed, and in that year of 1918 was when the Communist party and the menace of communism came into being. All this is confirmed in Websters Collegiate Dictionary, Fifth Edition. "In short, communism was created by the capitalists. Thus, until November 11, 1918, the entire fiendish plan of the conspirators worked perfectly. All the great nations, including the United States, were war-weary, devastated, and mourning their dead. Peace was the great universal desire. Thus when it was proposed by Wilson to set up a "League of Nations" to ensure peace, all the great nations, with no Russian Czar to stand in their way, jumped on that bandwagon without even stopping to read the fine print in that insurance-policy. That is, all but one, the United States, the very one that Schiff and his co-conspirators least expected would balk and that was their one fatal mistake in that early plot. You see, when Schiff planted Woodrow Wilson in the White House, the conspirators assumed that they had the United States in the proverbial bag. Wilson had been perfectly built-up as a great humanitarian. He supposedly became established as a God-man with the American people. There was every reason for the conspirators to have believed that he would have easily hornswaggled Congress into buying the "League of Nations," sight-unseen, exactly as the Congress of 1945 bought the "United Nations," sight-unseen. But there was one man in the Senate in 1918 who saw through that scheme just as the Russian Czar did in 1814. He was a man of great political stature, almost as great as that of Teddy Roosevelt and fully as astute. He was highly respected and trusted by all members of both houses of Congress and by the American people. The name of that great and patriotic American was Henry Cabot Lodge, not the phony of today who called himself Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., until he was exposed. Lodge completely unmasked Wilson and kept the United States out of the "League of Nations."
NOTE: Shortly thereafter, the Illuminati had created the 17th Amendment to do away with appointed Senators by the legislatures of the several states of the Union. Whereas, before that, the Illuminati controlled the press, they now control the election of the U.S. Senators. The Illuminati/CFR had little or no power over the individual legislatures of the several states or their appointed U.S. Senators prior to the [purported] ratification of the 17th Amendment. Although the 17th Amendment supposedly amends the method of placing Senators into the U.S. Senate, the 17th Amendment was never ratified in accordance to the last sentence of Article V of the U.S. Constitution. Two states, New Jersey and Utah, voted down the proposition and nine other states never voted at all. Whereas the states of New Jersey and Utah expressly refused to relinquish their "suffrage" in the Senate while the other non-voting nine states never gave their "express" consent, the proposition for the 17th Amendment did not obtain the "unanimous" vote required for its adoption. Furthermore, the resolution that created the "Proposition" did not pass the Senate with a "unanimous" vote and as those Senators of that day were "appointed" by the legislatures of their states, those "negative" votes or "non-votes" were made in the name of their respective state.
"Here it becomes of great interest to know the real reason for the Wilson League of Nations flop. As I previously stated, Schiff was sent to the United States to carry out four specific assignments: 1. And most important, was to acquire complete control of the U.S. money-system. 2. As outlined in the original Weishaupt Illuminati-blueprint, he was to find the right kind of men to serve as stooges for the great conspiracy and promote them into the highest offices in our federal government, our Congress, our U.S. Supreme Court, and all federal agencies, such as the State Department, the Pentagon, the Treasury Department, etc.. 3. Destroy the unity of the American people by creating minority-groups-strife throughout the nation, especially between the whites and blacks as outlined in Israel Cohens book. 4. Create a movement to destroy religion in the United States with Christianity to be the chief target or victim.
"Here it becomes of great interest to know the real reason for the Wilson League of Nations flop. As I previously stated, Schiff was sent to the United States to carry out four specific assignments:
1. And most important, was to acquire complete control of the U.S. money-system. 2. As outlined in the original Weishaupt Illuminati-blueprint, he was to find the right kind of men to serve as stooges for the great conspiracy and promote them into the highest offices in our federal government, our Congress, our U.S. Supreme Court, and all federal agencies, such as the State Department, the Pentagon, the Treasury Department, etc.. 3. Destroy the unity of the American people by creating minority-groups-strife throughout the nation, especially between the whites and blacks as outlined in Israel Cohens book. 4. Create a movement to destroy religion in the United States with Christianity to be the chief target or victim.
"In addition, he was strongly reminded of the imperative directive of the Illuminati-blueprint to achieve full-control of all mass-communications media to be used to brainwash the people into believing and accepting all of the maneuverings of the great conspiracy. Schiff was warned that only control of the press, at that time our only mass-communications media, would enable him to destroy the unity of the American people. "Now then, Schiff and his co-conspirators did set up the "NAACP" (the "National Association for the Advancement of the Coloured People") in 1909 and in 1913 he set up the "Anti-defamation League of the Bnai Brith," both were to create the necessary strife, but in the early years, the "ADL" operated very timidly. Perhaps for fear of a "pogrom-like" action by an aroused and enraged American people and the "NAACP" was practically dormant because its white leadership didnt realize that they would have to develop fire-brand Negro leaders, such as Martin Luther King for one, to spark the then completely satisfied contented mass of Negroes. "In addition, he, Schiff, was busy developing and infiltrating the stooges to serve in all high places in our Washington government and in the job of acquiring control of our money-system and the creation of the "16th Amendment." He also was very busy with the organizing of the plot for the takeover of Russia. In short, he was kept so busy with all those jobs that he completely overlooked the supreme job of acquiring complete-control of our mass-communications media. That oversight was a direct cause for Wilsons failure to lure the United States into the "League of Nations" because when Wilson decided to go to the people to overcome the opposition of the Lodge-controlled Senate, despite his established but phony reputation as a great humanitarian, he found himself faced by a solidly united people and by a loyal press whose only ideology was "Americanism" and the American way of life. At that time, due to the ineptness and ineffectiveness of the "ADL" and the "NAACP," there were no organized minority-groups, no Negro problems, no so-called antisemitic-problems to sway the peoples thinking. There were no lefts and there were no rights nor any prejudices for crafty exploitations. Thus Wilsons "League of Nations" appeal fell on deaf ears. That was the end of Woodrow Wilson, the conspirators great humanitarian. He quickly abandoned his crusade and returned to Washington where he shortly died an imbecile brought on by syphilis and that was the end of the "League of Nations" as a corridor into one-world government. "Of course that debacle was a terrible disappointment to the masterminds of the Illuminati conspiracy, but they were not discouraged. As I have previously stressed, this enemy never quits, they simply decided to reorganize and try from scratch again. By this time Schiff was very old and slow. He knew it. He knew that the conspiracy needed a new younger and more active leadership. So on his orders, Colonel House and Bernard Barouk organized and set up what they called the "Council on Foreign Relations," the new name under which the Illuminati would continue to function in the United States. The hierarchy, officers, and directors of the "CFR" is composed principally of descendants of the original Illuminati, many of whom had abandoned their old family name and acquired new Americanized names. For one example, we have Dillon, who was Secretary of Treasury of the United States, whose original name was Laposky. Another example is Pauley, head of the CBS TV channel, whose true name is Palinsky. The membership of the CFR is approximately 1,000 in number and contains the heads of virtually every industrial empire in America such as Blough, president of the U.S. Steel Corporation, Rockefeller, king of the oil industry, Henry Ford, II, and so on. And of course, all the international bankers. Also, the heads of the "tax-free" foundations are officers and/or active CFR members. In short, all the men who provided the money and the influence to elect the CFR chosen Presidents of the United States, the Congressmen, the Senators, and who decide the appointments of our various Secretaries of State, of the Treasury, of every important federal agency are members of the CFR and they are very obedient members indeed. "Now just to cement that fact, I will mention the names of the few of the United States Presidents who were members of the CFR. Franklin Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Jack Kennedy, Nixon, and George Bush. Others who were considered for the presidency are Thomas E. Dewey, Adlai Stevenson, and vice-president of a CFR subsidiary, Barry Goldwater. Among the important cabinet members of the various administrations we have John Foster Dulles, Allen Dulles, Cordell Hull, John J. MacLeod, Morganthau, Clarence Dillon, Rusk, McNamara, and just to emphasize the "red color" of the "CFR", we have as members such men as Alger Hess, Ralph Bunche, Pusvolsky, Haley Dexter White (real name Weiss), Owen Lattimore, Phillip Jaffey, etc., etc.. Simultaneously, they were flooding thousands of homosexuals and other black (not Negro) malleable characters into all the federal agencies from the White House on down. Do you remember Johnsons great friends, Jenkins and Bobby Baker? "Now there were many jobs the new CFR had to accomplish. They required much help. So their first job was to set up various "subsidiaries" to whom they assigned special objectives. I cant name all the subsidiaries in this recording, but the following are a few: the "Foreign Policy Association" ("FPA"), the "World Affairs Council" ("WAC"), the "Business Advisory Council" ("BAC"), the notorious "ADA" ("Americans for Democratic Action" virtually headed by Walter Ruther), the notorious "13-13" in Chicago, Barry Goldwater was, and no doubt still is a vice-president of one of the CFR subsidiaries. In addition, the CFR set up special committees in every state in the Union to whom they assigned the various state operations. "Simultaneously, the Rothschilds set up similar CFR-like control-groups in England, France, Germany, and other Nations to control world conditions and cooperate with the CFR to bring about another world war. But the CFRs first and foremost job was to get complete-control of our mass-communications media. The control of the press was assigned to Rockefeller. Thus, Henry Luce, who recently died, was financed to set up a number of national magazines, among them "Life," "Time," "Fortune," and others, which publish "U.S.S.R." in America. The Rockefellers also directly or indirectly financed the Coles Brothers "Look magazine" and a chain of newspapers. They also financed a man named Sam Newhouse to buy up and build a chain of newspapers all over the country. And the late Eugene Myer, one of the founders of CFR, bought the "Washington Post," "Newsweek," the "Weekly magazine", and other publications. At the same time, the CFR began to develop and nurture a new-breed of scurrilous columnists and editorials-writers such as Walter Lippman, Drew Pearson, the Alsops, Herbert Matthews, Erwin Canham, and others of that ilk who called themselves "Liberals" who proclaimed that "Americanism" is "isolationism," that "isolationism" is "war-mongerism," that "anti-communism," is "anti-semiticism" and "racism." All that took time of course, but today our "weeklies," published by patriotic organizations, is completely controlled by CFR stooges and thus they finally succeeded in breaking us up into a Nation of quarreling, wrangling, squabbling, hating factions. Now if you still wonder about this slanted news and outright lies you read in your newspaper, you now have the answer. To the Lehmans, Goldman-Sachs, Kuhn-Loebs, and the Warburgs, the CFR assigned the job of getting control of the motion-picture industry, Hollywood, radio, and television, and believe me they succeeded. If you still wonder about the strange propaganda broadcast by the Ed Morrows and others of that ilk, you now have the answer. If you wonder about all the smut, sex, pornography, and mixed-marriage films you see in your movie-theater and on your television set (all of which is demoralizing our youth), you now have the answer. "Now, to refresh your memory, lets go back for a moment. Wilsons flop had torpedoed all chances of transforming that "League of Nations" into the conspirators hope for a one-world government-housing so the Jacob Schiff plot had to be done all over again and they organized the CFR to do it. We also know how successfully the CFR did that job of brainwashing and destroying the unity of the American people. But as was the case with the Schiff plot, the climax and the creation of a new housing for their one world government required another world war. A war that would be even more horrible and more devastating than the first world war in order to get the people of the world to again clamor for peace and a means to end all wars. But the CFR realized that the aftermath of World War II would have to be more carefully planned so that there would be no escape from the new one-world trap - another "League of Nations" that would emerge from the new war. That trap we now know as the "United Nations" and they hit upon a perfect strategy to ensure that no one escaped. Here is how they did it. "In 1943, in the midst of the war, they prepared the framework for the United Nations and it was handed-over to Roosevelt and our State Department to be given birth by Alger Hess, Palvosky, Dalton, Trumbull, and other American traitors, thus making the whole scheme a United States baby. Then to fix our parenthood, New York City was to become the nursery for the monstrosity. After that we could hardly walk-out on our own baby now could we? Anyway, thats how the conspirators figured it would work and so far it has. The liberal Rockefeller donated the land for the United Nations building. "The United Nations charter was written by Alger Hess, Palvosky, Dalton, Trumbull, and other CFR stooges. A phony, so-called, U.N. conference was set up in San Francisco in 1945. All the, so-called, representatives of 50-odd Nations gathered there and promptly signed the Charter and the despicable traitor, Alger Hess, flew to Washington with it, elatedly submitted it to our Senate, and the Senate (elected by our people to safeguard our security) signed the Charter without so much as reading it. The question is: "How many of our Senators were, even then, traitorous stooges of the CFR ?" Anyway, it was thus that the people accepted the "United Nations" as a "holy of holies."
"In addition, he was strongly reminded of the imperative directive of the Illuminati-blueprint to achieve full-control of all mass-communications media to be used to brainwash the people into believing and accepting all of the maneuverings of the great conspiracy. Schiff was warned that only control of the press, at that time our only mass-communications media, would enable him to destroy the unity of the American people. "Now then, Schiff and his co-conspirators did set up the "NAACP" (the "National Association for the Advancement of the Coloured People") in 1909 and in 1913 he set up the "Anti-defamation League of the Bnai Brith," both were to create the necessary strife, but in the early years, the "ADL" operated very timidly. Perhaps for fear of a "pogrom-like" action by an aroused and enraged American people and the "NAACP" was practically dormant because its white leadership didnt realize that they would have to develop fire-brand Negro leaders, such as Martin Luther King for one, to spark the then completely satisfied contented mass of Negroes. "In addition, he, Schiff, was busy developing and infiltrating the stooges to serve in all high places in our Washington government and in the job of acquiring control of our money-system and the creation of the "16th Amendment." He also was very busy with the organizing of the plot for the takeover of Russia. In short, he was kept so busy with all those jobs that he completely overlooked the supreme job of acquiring complete-control of our mass-communications media. That oversight was a direct cause for Wilsons failure to lure the United States into the "League of Nations" because when Wilson decided to go to the people to overcome the opposition of the Lodge-controlled Senate, despite his established but phony reputation as a great humanitarian, he found himself faced by a solidly united people and by a loyal press whose only ideology was "Americanism" and the American way of life. At that time, due to the ineptness and ineffectiveness of the "ADL" and the "NAACP," there were no organized minority-groups, no Negro problems, no so-called antisemitic-problems to sway the peoples thinking. There were no lefts and there were no rights nor any prejudices for crafty exploitations. Thus Wilsons "League of Nations" appeal fell on deaf ears. That was the end of Woodrow Wilson, the conspirators great humanitarian. He quickly abandoned his crusade and returned to Washington where he shortly died an imbecile brought on by syphilis and that was the end of the "League of Nations" as a corridor into one-world government. "Of course that debacle was a terrible disappointment to the masterminds of the Illuminati conspiracy, but they were not discouraged. As I have previously stressed, this enemy never quits, they simply decided to reorganize and try from scratch again. By this time Schiff was very old and slow. He knew it. He knew that the conspiracy needed a new younger and more active leadership. So on his orders, Colonel House and Bernard Barouk organized and set up what they called the "Council on Foreign Relations," the new name under which the Illuminati would continue to function in the United States. The hierarchy, officers, and directors of the "CFR" is composed principally of descendants of the original Illuminati, many of whom had abandoned their old family name and acquired new Americanized names. For one example, we have Dillon, who was Secretary of Treasury of the United States, whose original name was Laposky.
Another example is Pauley, head of the CBS TV channel, whose true name is Palinsky. The membership of the CFR is approximately 1,000 in number and contains the heads of virtually every industrial empire in America such as Blough, president of the U.S. Steel Corporation, Rockefeller, king of the oil industry, Henry Ford, II, and so on. And of course, all the international bankers. Also, the heads of the "tax-free" foundations are officers and/or active CFR members. In short, all the men who provided the money and the influence to elect the CFR chosen Presidents of the United States, the Congressmen, the Senators, and who decide the appointments of our various Secretaries of State, of the Treasury, of every important federal agency are members of the CFR and they are very obedient members indeed. "Now just to cement that fact, I will mention the names of the few of the United States Presidents who were members of the CFR. Franklin Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Jack Kennedy, Nixon, and George Bush. Others who were considered for the presidency are Thomas E. Dewey, Adlai Stevenson, and vice-president of a CFR subsidiary, Barry Goldwater. Among the important cabinet members of the various administrations we have John Foster Dulles, Allen Dulles, Cordell Hull, John J. MacLeod, Morganthau, Clarence Dillon, Rusk, McNamara, and just to emphasize the "red color" of the "CFR", we have as members such men as Alger Hess, Ralph Bunche, Pusvolsky, Haley Dexter White (real name Weiss), Owen Lattimore, Phillip Jaffey, etc., etc.. Simultaneously, they were flooding thousands of homosexuals and other black (not Negro) malleable characters into all the federal agencies from the White House on down. Do you remember Johnsons great friends, Jenkins and Bobby Baker? "Now there were many jobs the new CFR had to accomplish. They required much help. So their first job was to set up various "subsidiaries" to whom they assigned special objectives. I cant name all the subsidiaries in this recording, but the following are a few:
the "Foreign Policy Association" ("FPA"),
the "World Affairs Council" ("WAC"),
the "Business Advisory Council" ("BAC"),
the notorious "ADA" ("Americans for Democratic Action" virtually headed by Walter Ruther),
the notorious "13-13" in Chicago, Barry Goldwater was, and no doubt still is a vice-president of one of the CFR subsidiaries.
In addition, the CFR set up special committees in every state in the Union to whom they assigned the various state operations.
"Simultaneously, the Rothschilds set up similar CFR-like control-groups in England, France, Germany, and other Nations to control world conditions and cooperate with the CFR to bring about another world war. But the CFRs first and foremost job was to get complete-control of our mass-communications media. The control of the press was assigned to Rockefeller. Thus, Henry Luce, who recently died, was financed to set up a number of national magazines, among them "Life," "Time," "Fortune," and others, which publish "U.S.S.R." in America. The Rockefellers also directly or indirectly financed the Coles Brothers "Look magazine" and a chain of newspapers. They also financed a man named Sam Newhouse to buy up and build a chain of newspapers all over the country. And the late Eugene Myer, one of the founders of CFR, bought the "Washington Post," "Newsweek," the "Weekly magazine", and other publications. At the same time, the CFR began to develop and nurture a new-breed of scurrilous columnists and editorials-writers such as Walter Lippman, Drew Pearson, the Alsops, Herbert Matthews, Erwin Canham, and others of that ilk who called themselves "Liberals" who proclaimed that "Americanism" is "isolationism," that "isolationism" is "war-mongerism," that "anti-communism," is "anti-semiticism" and "racism."
All that took time of course, but today our "weeklies," published by patriotic organizations, is completely controlled by CFR stooges and thus they finally succeeded in breaking us up into a Nation of quarreling, wrangling, squabbling, hating factions. Now if you still wonder about this slanted news and outright lies you read in your newspaper, you now have the answer. To the Lehmans, Goldman-Sachs, Kuhn-Loebs, and the Warburgs, the CFR assigned the job of getting control of the motion-picture industry, Hollywood, radio, and television, and believe me they succeeded. If you still wonder about the strange propaganda broadcast by the Ed Morrows and others of that ilk, you now have the answer. If you wonder about all the smut, sex, pornography, and mixed-marriage films you see in your movie-theater and on your television set (all of which is demoralizing our youth), you now have the answer. "Now, to refresh your memory, lets go back for a moment. Wilsons flop had torpedoed all chances of transforming that "League of Nations" into the conspirators hope for a one-world government-housing so the Jacob Schiff plot had to be done all over again and they organized the CFR to do it. We also know how successfully the CFR did that job of brainwashing and destroying the unity of the American people. But as was the case with the Schiff plot, the climax and the creation of a new housing for their one world government required another world war. A war that would be even more horrible and more devastating than the first world war in order to get the people of the world to again clamor for peace and a means to end all wars. But the CFR realized that the aftermath of World War II would have to be more carefully planned so that there would be no escape from the new one-world trap - another "League of Nations" that would emerge from the new war. That trap we now know as the "United Nations" and they hit upon a perfect strategy to ensure that no one escaped. Here is how they did it. "In 1943, in the midst of the war, they prepared the framework for the United Nations and it was handed-over to Roosevelt and our State Department to be given birth by Alger Hess, Palvosky, Dalton, Trumbull, and other American traitors, thus making the whole scheme a United States baby. Then to fix our parenthood, New York City was to become the nursery for the monstrosity. After that we could hardly walk-out on our own baby now could we? Anyway, thats how the conspirators figured it would work and so far it has. The liberal Rockefeller donated the land for the United Nations building. "The United Nations charter was written by Alger Hess, Palvosky, Dalton, Trumbull, and other CFR stooges. A phony, so-called, U.N. conference was set up in San Francisco in 1945. All the, so-called, representatives of 50-odd Nations gathered there and promptly signed the Charter and the despicable traitor, Alger Hess, flew to Washington with it, elatedly submitted it to our Senate, and the Senate (elected by our people to safeguard our security) signed the Charter without so much as reading it. The question is: "How many of our Senators were, even then, traitorous stooges of the CFR ?" Anyway, it was thus that the people accepted the "United Nations" as a "holy of holies."
Again and again and again we have been startled, shocked, bewildered, and horrified by their mistakes in Berlin, in Korea, in Laos, in Katanga, in Cuba, in Vietnam, mistakes that always favored the enemy, never the United States. Under the law of averages, they should have made at least one or two mistakes in our favor, but they never did. Whats the answer? The answer is the "CFR" and the parts played by their subsidiaries and stooges in Washington D.C., thus we know that complete control of our foreign-relation policy is the key to the success of the entire Illuminati one-world-order plot. Here is further proof.
"Earlier I fully established that Schiff and his gang had financed the Lenin, Trotsky, Stalin, takeover of Russia and fashioned its communist regime into becoming their chief instrument to keep the world in turmoil and to finally terrorize all of us into seeking peace in a U.N. one-world government. But the conspirators knew that the "Moscow gang" could not become such an instrument until and unless the whole world would accept the communist regime as the legitimate "de jure government" of Russia. Only one thing could accomplish that and that is the recognition by the United States. The conspirators figured that the whole world would follow our lead and thats their bag, to induce Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover, to grant that recognition. But all three refused. As a result of the late 1920s, the Stalin regime was in dire straits. Despite all purges and secret-police controls, the Russian people were growing more and more resistive. It is a matter of record, admitted by Lipdenoff, that during 1931 and 1932, Stalin and his whole gang were always packed and ready for instant flight. "Then in November 1932, the conspirators achieved their greatest coup, they landed Franklin Roosevelt in the White House, crafty, unscrupulous, and utterly without conscience. That charlatan traitor turned the trick for them. Without even asking consent of Congress, he unlawfully proclaimed recognition for the Stalin regime. That did it. And exactly as the conspirators figured, the whole world did follow our lead. Automatically that squelched the previously growing resistance-movement of the Russian people. That automatically launched the greatest menace the civilized world has ever known. The rest is too well known to need repeating. "We know how Roosevelt and his traitorous State Department kept building up the communist menace right here in our country and thus throughout the world. We know how he perpetuated that whole Harbour atrocity for his excuse to hurl us into World War II. We know all about his secret meetings with Stalin at Yalta and how he, with Eisenhowers help, delivered the Balkans and Berlin to Moscow and last but by no means least, we know that the 20th century Benedict Arnold not only dragged us into that new corridor, the United Nations into the one-world government, but actually schemed all the arrangements to plant it within our country. In short, the day that Roosevelt entered the White House, the CFR conspirators regained full-control of our foreign-relations machinery and firmly established the United Nations as the housing for the Illuminati one-world government. "I wish to stress one other very vital point. That Wilson "League of Nations" flop brought Schiff and his gang to the realization that control of just the Democratic Party was not enough. True! They could create a crisis during the Republican administration as they did in 1929 with their federal reserve manufactured crash and depression which would bring another Democrat stooge back into the White House, but they realized that a four-year disruption in their control of our foreign-relation policies could play havoc with the progress of their conspiracy. It could even break-up their entire strategy as it almost did before Roosevelt saved it with his recognition of the Stalin regime. "Thereupon, after that Wilson debacle, they began to formulate plans to achieve control of both of our national parties. But that posed a problem for them. They needed manpower with stooges in the Republican Party with additional manpower for the Democratic Party and because control of just the man in the White House would not be enough, they would have to provide that man with trained stooges for his entire cabinet. Men to head the State Department, the Treasury Department, the Pentagon, the CFR, the USIA, etc.. In short, every member of the various cabinets would have to be a chosen tool of the CFR, such as Rusk and McNamara, as well as all the under-Secretaries and assistant-Secretaries. That would give the conspirators absolute control of all our policies, both domestic and most-important, foreign. That course of action would require a reserve-pool of trained stooges, instantaneously-ready for administrative changes and for all other exigencies. All such stooges would of necessity have to be men of national reputation, high in the esteem of the people, but they would have to be men without honor, without scruple, and without conscience. These men would have to be vulnerable to blackmail. It is needless for me to stress how well the CFR succeeded. The immortal Joe McCarthy fully revealed that there are thousands of such security-risks in all federal agencies. Scott MacLeod unmasked thousands more and you know the price that Ortega had to pay, and is still paying, for his expositions before a Senate Committee of the traitors in the State Department and you know that the men in the State Department, who delivered Cuba to Castro, have not only been shielded, but promoted. "Now lets go back to the crux of the whole one-world government plot and the maneuvering necessary to create another "League of Nations" to house such a government. As I have already stated, the conspirators knew that only another world war was vital for the success of their plot. It would have to be such a horrifying world war that the peoples of the world would cry-out for the creation of some kind of a world-organization that could secure an everlasting peace. But how could such a war be brought about? All the European nations were at peace. None had any quarrels with their neighboring nations and certainly their stools in Moscow wouldnt dare to start a war. Even Stalin realized that it would mean the overthrow of his regime unless, so-called, "patriotism" would weld the Russian people behind him. "But the conspirators had to have a war. They had to find or create some kind of an incident to launch it. They found it in a little inconspicuous and repulsive little man who called himself "Adolf Hitler." Hitler, an impecunious Austrian house-painter, had been a corporal in the German army. He made the defeat of Germany into a personal grievance. He began to "rabble-rouse" about it in the Munich, Germany area. He began to spout about restoring the greatness of the German Empire and the might of the German solidarity. He advocated the restoration of the old German military to be used to conquer the whole world. Strangely enough, Hitler, the little clown that he was, could deliver a rabble-rousing speech and he did have a certain kind of magnetism. But the new authorities in Germany didnt want anymore wars and they promptly threw the obnoxious Austrian house-painter into a prison-cell. "Aha! Here was the man, decided the conspirators, who, if properly directed and financed, could be the key to another world war. So while he was in prison, they had Rudolph Hess and Goering write a book which they titled: "Mein Kampf" and attributed the authorship to Hitler, exactly as Lipdenoff wrote: "Mission to Moscow" and attributed the authorship to Joseph Davies, then our ambassador to Russia and a stooge of the CFR. In "Mein Kampf," the Hitler pseudo-author outlined his grievances and how he would restore the German people to their former greatness. The conspirators then arranged for a wide circulation of the book among the German people in order to arouse a fanatical following for him. On his release from prison (also arranged by the conspirators), they began to groom and finance him to travel to other parts of Germany to deliver his rabble-rousing speeches. Soon he gathered a growing following among other veterans of the war, that soon spread to the masses, who began to see in him a savior for their beloved Germany. Then came his leadership of what he called "his brown-shirt army" and the march on Berlin. That required a great deal of financing, but the Rothschilds, the Warburgs, and others of the conspirators provided all the money he needed. Gradually Hitler became the idol of the German people and they then overthrew the Von Hindenburg government and Hitler became the new Fuhrer. But that still was no reason for a war. The rest of the world watched Hitlers rise but saw no reason to interfere in what was distinctly a domestic-condition within Germany. Certainly none of the other Nations felt it was a reason for another war against Germany and the German people were not yet incited into enough of a frenzy to commit any acts against any neighboring nation, not even against France, that would lead to a war. The conspirators realized they would have to create such a frenzy, a frenzy that would cause the German people to throw caution to the winds and at the same time, horrify the whole world. And incidentally, "Mein Kampf" was actually a follow-up of Karl Marxs book: "A World Without Jews." "The conspirators suddenly remembered how the Schiff-Rothschild gang had engineered the pogroms in Russia which slaughtered many, many thousands of Jews and created a world-wide hatred for Russia and they decided to use that same unconscionable trick to inflame the new Hitler led German people into a murderous-hatred of the Jews. Now it is true that the German people never had any particular affection for the Jews, but neither did they have an ingrained hatred for them. Such a hatred would have to be manufactured so Hitler was to create it. This idea more than appealed to Hitler. He saw in it the grisly gimmick to make him the "God-man" (christ) of the German people. "Thus craftily inspired and coached by his financial-advisers, the Warburgs, the Rothschilds, and all the Illuminati masterminds, he blamed the Jews for the hated "Versailles Treaty" and for the financial ruination that followed the war. The rest is history. We know all about the Hitler concentration-camps and the incineration of hundred of thousands of Jews. Not the 6,000,000 nor even the 600,000 claimed by the conspirators, but it was enough. And here let me reiterate how little the internationalist bankers, the Rothschilds, Schiffs, Lehmans, Warburgs, Barouks, cared about their racial brethren who were the victims of their nefarious schemes. In their eyes, the slaughter of the several hundred thousand innocent Jews by Hitler didnt bother them at all. They considered it a necessary sacrifice to further their Illuminati one-world plot just as the slaughter of the many millions in the wars that followed was a similar necessary sacrifice. And here is another grisly detail about those concentration-camps. Many of the Hitler soldier-executioners in those camps had previously been sent to Russia to acquire their arts of torture and brutalization so as to emphasize the horrors of the atrocities. "All this created a new world-wide hatred for the German people but it still did not provide a cause for a war. Thereupon Hitler was incited to demand the "Sudetenland", and you remember how Chamberlain and the then diplomats of Czechoslovakia and France surrendered to that demand. That demand led to further Hitlerian demands for territories in Poland and in the French Czar territories and those demands were rejected. Then came his pact with Stalin. Hitler had been screaming hatred against communism (Oh how he ranted against communism), but actually nazism was nothing but socialism (national-socialism - Nazi), and communism is, in fact, socialism. But Hitler disregarded all that. He entered into a pact with Stalin to attack and divide Poland between them. While Stalin marched into one part of Poland (for which he was never blamed [the Illuminati masterminds saw to that]), Hitler launched a "blitzkrieg" on Poland from his side. The conspirators finally had their new world war and what a horrible war it was. "And in 1945, the conspirators finally achieved the "United Nations", their new housing for their one-world government. And truly amazing, all of the American people hailed this foul outfit as a "Holy of Holies." Even after all the true-facts about how the U.N. was created were revealed, the American people continued to worship that evil outfit. Even after Alger Hess was unmasked as a Soviet spy and traitor, the American people continued to believe in the U.N.. Even after I had publicly revealed the secret-agreement between Hess and Mulatoff that a Russian would always be the head of the military-secretariat and by that token, the real master of the U.N.. But most of the American people continued to believe that the U.N. could do no wrong. Even after Trig D. Lee, the first Secretary-general of the "U.N." confirmed that Hess-Mulatoff secret-agreement in his book: "For The Cause of Peace," Vasialia was given a leave of absence by the U.N. so that he could take command of the North Koreans and Red Chinese who were fighting the so-called U.N. police-action under our own General McArthur, who, by orders of the U.N., was fired by the pusillanimous president Truman in order to prevent him from winning that war. Our people still believed in the U.N. despite our 150,000 sons who were murdered and maimed in that war, the people continued to regard the U.N. as a sure means for peace even after it was revealed in 1951 that the U.N. (using our own American soldiers under U.N. command, under the U.N. flag, in collusion with our traitorous State Department and the Pentagon) had been invading many small cities in California and Texas in order to perfect their plan for the complete takeover of our country. Most of our people brushed it off and continued their belief that the U.N. is a "Holy of Holies." (Rather than The Ark of The Covenant). Do you know that the U.N. Charter was written by traitor Alger Hess, Mulatoff, and Vyshinsky? That Hess and Mulatoff had made within that secret-agreement that the military-chief of the U.N. was always to be a Russian appointed by Moscow? Do you know that at their secret meetings at Yalta, Roosevelt and Stalin, at the behest of the Illuminati operating as the CFR, decided that the U.N. must be placed on American soil? Do you know that most of the U.N. Charter was copied intact, word for word, from the Marx "Manifesto" and the Russian, so-called, constitution? Do you know that only the two Senators who voted against the U.N. Charter had read it? Do you know that since the U.N. was founded, communist enslavement has grown from 250,000 to 1,000,000,000? Do you know that since the U.N. was founded to insure peace there have been at least 20 major wars incited by the U.N, just as they incited war against little Rhodesia and Kuwait? Do you know that under the U.N. set-up, the American taxpayers have been forced to make up the U.N. Treasury-deficit of many millions of dollars because of Russias refusal to pay her share? Do you know that the U.N. had never passed a resolution condemning Russia or her so-called satellites, but always condemns our Allies? Do you know that J. Edgar Hoover said: "the overwhelming-majority of the communist-delegations to the U.N. are espionage-agents" and that 66 Senators voted for a "Consular Treaty" to open our entire country to Russian spies and saboteurs? Do you know that the U.N. helps Russias conquest of the world by preventing the free world from taking any action whatsoever except to debate each new aggression in the U.N. General Assembly? Do you know that at the time of the Korean War there were 60 Nations in the U.N., yet 95% of the U.N. forces were our American sons and practically 100% of the cost was paid by the United States taxpayers? And surely you know that the U.N. policy during the Korean and Vietnam Wars was to prevent us from winning those wars? Do you know that all the battle-plans of General McArthur had to go first to the U.N. to be relayed to Vasialia, Commander of the North Koreans and Red Chinese, and that any future wars fought by our sons under the U.N. flag would have to be fought by our sons under the control of the U.N. Security Council? Do you know that the U.N. has never done anything about the 80,000 Russian Mongolian troops that occupy Hungary? Where was the U.N. when the Hungarian freedom-fighters were slaughtered by the Russians? Do you know that the U.N. and its peace-army turned the Congo over to the communists? Do you know that the U.N.s own, so-called, peace-force was used to crush, rape, and kill the white anti-communists in Katanga? Do you know that the U.N. stood by and did nothing while Red China invaded Laos and Vietnam? That it did nothing while Nero invaded Goa and other Portuguese territories? Do you know that the U.N. was directly-responsible for aiding Castro? That it does absolutely nothing about the many thousands of Cuban youngsters who are shipped to Russia for communist-indoctrination. Do you know that Adlai Stevenson said: "the free world must expect to lose more and more decisions in the U.N.." Do you know that the U.N. openly proclaims that its chief objective is a "one-world government" which means "one-world laws," "one-world court," "one-world schools," and a "one-world church" in which Christianity would be prohibited? Do you know that a U.N. law has been passed to disarm all American citizens and to transfer all our armed forces to the U.N.? Such a law was secretly signed by saint Jack Kennedy in 1961. Do you realize how that fits in with Article 47, paragraph 3, of the U.N. Charter, which states and I quote: "the military staff committee of the U.N. shall be responsible through the Security Council for the strategic direction of all armed forces placed at the disposal of the Security Council" and when and if all our armed forces are transferred to the U.N., your sons would be forced to serve and die under the U.N. command all over the world. This will happen unless you fight to get the U.S. out of the U.N.. Do you know that Congressman James B. Utt has submitted a bill to get the U.S. out of the U.N. and a resolution to prevent our President from forcing-us to support the U.N. embargoes on Rhodesia? Well, he has and many people all over the country are writing to their representatives to support the Utt bill and resolution. Fifty Congressmen, spear-headed by Schweiker and Moorhead of Pennsylvania, have introduced a bill to immediately transfer all our armed forces to the U.N.? Can you imagine such brazen treason? Is your Congressman one of those 50 traitors? Find out and take immediate action against him and help Congressman Utt."Now do you know that the "National Council of Churches" passed a resolution in San Francisco which states that the United States will soon have to subordinate its will to that of the U.N. and that all American citizens must be prepared to accept it? Is your church a member of the "National Council of Churches?" In connection with that, bear in mind that God is never mentioned in the U.N. Charter and their meetings are never opened with prayer."The creators of the U.N. stipulated in advance that there should be no mention of God or Jesus Christ in the U.N. Charter or in its U.N. headquarters. Does your pastor subscribe to that? Find out! Furthermore, do you know that the great majority of the, so-called, Nations in the U.N. are anti-christianity and that the U.N. is a completely Godless organization by orders of its creators, the CFR Illuminati. Have you heard enough of the truth about the Illuminatis United Nations? Do you want to leave your sons and our precious country to the unholy mercy of the Illuminatis United Nations? If you dont, write, telegraph, or phone your Representatives and Senators that they must support Congressman Utts bill to get the U.S. out of the U.N. and the U.N. out of the U.S.. Do it today, now, before you forget! It is the only salvation for your sons and for our country.
"Earlier I fully established that Schiff and his gang had financed the Lenin, Trotsky, Stalin, takeover of Russia and fashioned its communist regime into becoming their chief instrument to keep the world in turmoil and to finally terrorize all of us into seeking peace in a U.N. one-world government. But the conspirators knew that the "Moscow gang" could not become such an instrument until and unless the whole world would accept the communist regime as the legitimate "de jure government" of Russia. Only one thing could accomplish that and that is the recognition by the United States. The conspirators figured that the whole world would follow our lead and thats their bag, to induce Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover, to grant that recognition. But all three refused. As a result of the late 1920s, the Stalin regime was in dire straits. Despite all purges and secret-police controls, the Russian people were growing more and more resistive. It is a matter of record, admitted by Lipdenoff, that during 1931 and 1932, Stalin and his whole gang were always packed and ready for instant flight. "Then in November 1932, the conspirators achieved their greatest coup, they landed Franklin Roosevelt in the White House, crafty, unscrupulous, and utterly without conscience. That charlatan traitor turned the trick for them. Without even asking consent of Congress, he unlawfully proclaimed recognition for the Stalin regime. That did it. And exactly as the conspirators figured, the whole world did follow our lead. Automatically that squelched the previously growing resistance-movement of the Russian people. That automatically launched the greatest menace the civilized world has ever known. The rest is too well known to need repeating. "We know how Roosevelt and his traitorous State Department kept building up the communist menace right here in our country and thus throughout the world. We know how he perpetuated that whole Harbour atrocity for his excuse to hurl us into World War II. We know all about his secret meetings with Stalin at Yalta and how he, with Eisenhowers help, delivered the Balkans and Berlin to Moscow and last but by no means least, we know that the 20th century Benedict Arnold not only dragged us into that new corridor, the United Nations into the one-world government, but actually schemed all the arrangements to plant it within our country. In short, the day that Roosevelt entered the White House, the CFR conspirators regained full-control of our foreign-relations machinery and firmly established the United Nations as the housing for the Illuminati one-world government. "I wish to stress one other very vital point. That Wilson "League of Nations" flop brought Schiff and his gang to the realization that control of just the Democratic Party was not enough. True! They could create a crisis during the Republican administration as they did in 1929 with their federal reserve manufactured crash and depression which would bring another Democrat stooge back into the White House, but they realized that a four-year disruption in their control of our foreign-relation policies could play havoc with the progress of their conspiracy. It could even break-up their entire strategy as it almost did before Roosevelt saved it with his recognition of the Stalin regime. "Thereupon, after that Wilson debacle, they began to formulate plans to achieve control of both of our national parties. But that posed a problem for them. They needed manpower with stooges in the Republican Party with additional manpower for the Democratic Party and because control of just the man in the White House would not be enough, they would have to provide that man with trained stooges for his entire cabinet. Men to head the State Department, the Treasury Department, the Pentagon, the CFR, the USIA, etc.. In short, every member of the various cabinets would have to be a chosen tool of the CFR, such as Rusk and McNamara, as well as all the under-Secretaries and assistant-Secretaries. That would give the conspirators absolute control of all our policies, both domestic and most-important, foreign.
That course of action would require a reserve-pool of trained stooges, instantaneously-ready for administrative changes and for all other exigencies. All such stooges would of necessity have to be men of national reputation, high in the esteem of the people, but they would have to be men without honor, without scruple, and without conscience. These men would have to be vulnerable to blackmail. It is needless for me to stress how well the CFR succeeded. The immortal Joe McCarthy fully revealed that there are thousands of such security-risks in all federal agencies. Scott MacLeod unmasked thousands more and you know the price that Ortega had to pay, and is still paying, for his expositions before a Senate Committee of the traitors in the State Department and you know that the men in the State Department, who delivered Cuba to Castro, have not only been shielded, but promoted. "Now lets go back to the crux of the whole one-world government plot and the maneuvering necessary to create another "League of Nations" to house such a government. As I have already stated, the conspirators knew that only another world war was vital for the success of their plot. It would have to be such a horrifying world war that the peoples of the world would cry-out for the creation of some kind of a world-organization that could secure an everlasting peace. But how could such a war be brought about? All the European nations were at peace. None had any quarrels with their neighboring nations and certainly their stools in Moscow wouldnt dare to start a war. Even Stalin realized that it would mean the overthrow of his regime unless, so-called, "patriotism" would weld the Russian people behind him. "But the conspirators had to have a war. They had to find or create some kind of an incident to launch it. They found it in a little inconspicuous and repulsive little man who called himself "Adolf Hitler." Hitler, an impecunious Austrian house-painter, had been a corporal in the German army. He made the defeat of Germany into a personal grievance. He began to "rabble-rouse" about it in the Munich, Germany area. He began to spout about restoring the greatness of the German Empire and the might of the German solidarity. He advocated the restoration of the old German military to be used to conquer the whole world. Strangely enough, Hitler, the little clown that he was, could deliver a rabble-rousing speech and he did have a certain kind of magnetism. But the new authorities in Germany didnt want anymore wars and they promptly threw the obnoxious Austrian house-painter into a prison-cell. "Aha! Here was the man, decided the conspirators, who, if properly directed and financed, could be the key to another world war. So while he was in prison, they had Rudolph Hess and Goering write a book which they titled: "Mein Kampf" and attributed the authorship to Hitler, exactly as Lipdenoff wrote: "Mission to Moscow" and attributed the authorship to Joseph Davies, then our ambassador to Russia and a stooge of the CFR. In "Mein Kampf," the Hitler pseudo-author outlined his grievances and how he would restore the German people to their former greatness. The conspirators then arranged for a wide circulation of the book among the German people in order to arouse a fanatical following for him. On his release from prison (also arranged by the conspirators), they began to groom and finance him to travel to other parts of Germany to deliver his rabble-rousing speeches. Soon he gathered a growing following among other veterans of the war, that soon spread to the masses, who began to see in him a savior for their beloved Germany.
Then came his leadership of what he called "his brown-shirt army" and the march on Berlin. That required a great deal of financing, but the Rothschilds, the Warburgs, and others of the conspirators provided all the money he needed. Gradually Hitler became the idol of the German people and they then overthrew the Von Hindenburg government and Hitler became the new Fuhrer. But that still was no reason for a war. The rest of the world watched Hitlers rise but saw no reason to interfere in what was distinctly a domestic-condition within Germany. Certainly none of the other Nations felt it was a reason for another war against Germany and the German people were not yet incited into enough of a frenzy to commit any acts against any neighboring nation, not even against France, that would lead to a war. The conspirators realized they would have to create such a frenzy, a frenzy that would cause the German people to throw caution to the winds and at the same time, horrify the whole world. And incidentally, "Mein Kampf" was actually a follow-up of Karl Marxs book: "A World Without Jews." "The conspirators suddenly remembered how the Schiff-Rothschild gang had engineered the pogroms in Russia which slaughtered many, many thousands of Jews and created a world-wide hatred for Russia and they decided to use that same unconscionable trick to inflame the new Hitler led German people into a murderous-hatred of the Jews. Now it is true that the German people never had any particular affection for the Jews, but neither did they have an ingrained hatred for them. Such a hatred would have to be manufactured so Hitler was to create it. This idea more than appealed to Hitler. He saw in it the grisly gimmick to make him the "God-man" (christ) of the German people.
"Thus craftily inspired and coached by his financial-advisers, the Warburgs, the Rothschilds, and all the Illuminati masterminds, he blamed the Jews for the hated "Versailles Treaty" and for the financial ruination that followed the war. The rest is history. We know all about the Hitler concentration-camps and the incineration of hundred of thousands of Jews. Not the 6,000,000 nor even the 600,000 claimed by the conspirators, but it was enough. And here let me reiterate how little the internationalist bankers, the Rothschilds, Schiffs, Lehmans, Warburgs, Barouks, cared about their racial brethren who were the victims of their nefarious schemes. In their eyes, the slaughter of the several hundred thousand innocent Jews by Hitler didnt bother them at all. They considered it a necessary sacrifice to further their Illuminati one-world plot just as the slaughter of the many millions in the wars that followed was a similar necessary sacrifice. And here is another grisly detail about those concentration-camps. Many of the Hitler soldier-executioners in those camps had previously been sent to Russia to acquire their arts of torture and brutalization so as to emphasize the horrors of the atrocities. "All this created a new world-wide hatred for the German people but it still did not provide a cause for a war. Thereupon Hitler was incited to demand the "Sudetenland", and you remember how Chamberlain and the then diplomats of Czechoslovakia and France surrendered to that demand. That demand led to further Hitlerian demands for territories in Poland and in the French Czar territories and those demands were rejected. Then came his pact with Stalin. Hitler had been screaming hatred against communism (Oh how he ranted against communism), but actually nazism was nothing but socialism (national-socialism - Nazi), and communism is, in fact, socialism. But Hitler disregarded all that. He entered into a pact with Stalin to attack and divide Poland between them. While Stalin marched into one part of Poland (for which he was never blamed [the Illuminati masterminds saw to that]), Hitler launched a "blitzkrieg" on Poland from his side. The conspirators finally had their new world war and what a horrible war it was.
"And in 1945, the conspirators finally achieved the "United Nations", their new housing for their one-world government. And truly amazing, all of the American people hailed this foul outfit as a "Holy of Holies." Even after all the true-facts about how the U.N. was created were revealed, the American people continued to worship that evil outfit. Even after Alger Hess was unmasked as a Soviet spy and traitor, the American people continued to believe in the U.N.. Even after I had publicly revealed the secret-agreement between Hess and Mulatoff that a Russian would always be the head of the military-secretariat and by that token, the real master of the U.N.. But most of the American people continued to believe that the U.N. could do no wrong.
Even after Trig D. Lee, the first Secretary-general of the "U.N." confirmed that Hess-Mulatoff secret-agreement in his book: "For The Cause of Peace," Vasialia was given a leave of absence by the U.N. so that he could take command of the North Koreans and Red Chinese who were fighting the so-called U.N. police-action under our own General McArthur, who, by orders of the U.N., was fired by the pusillanimous president Truman in order to prevent him from winning that war. Our people still believed in the U.N. despite our 150,000 sons who were murdered and maimed in that war, the people continued to regard the U.N. as a sure means for peace even after it was revealed in 1951 that the U.N. (using our own American soldiers under U.N. command, under the U.N. flag, in collusion with our traitorous State Department and the Pentagon) had been invading many small cities in California and Texas in order to perfect their plan for the complete takeover of our country. Most of our people brushed it off and continued their belief that the U.N. is a "Holy of Holies." (Rather than The Ark of The Covenant).
Do you know that the U.N. Charter was written by traitor Alger Hess, Mulatoff, and Vyshinsky? That Hess and Mulatoff had made within that secret-agreement that the military-chief of the U.N. was always to be a Russian appointed by Moscow?
Do you know that at their secret meetings at Yalta, Roosevelt and Stalin, at the behest of the Illuminati operating as the CFR, decided that the U.N. must be placed on American soil?
Do you know that most of the U.N. Charter was copied intact, word for word, from the Marx "Manifesto" and the Russian, so-called, constitution?
Do you know that only the two Senators who voted against the U.N. Charter had read it?
Do you know that since the U.N. was founded, communist enslavement has grown from 250,000 to 1,000,000,000?
Do you know that since the U.N. was founded to insure peace there have been at least 20 major wars incited by the U.N, just as they incited war against little Rhodesia and Kuwait?
Do you know that under the U.N. set-up, the American taxpayers have been forced to make up the U.N. Treasury-deficit of many millions of dollars because of Russias refusal to pay her share?
Do you know that the U.N. had never passed a resolution condemning Russia or her so-called satellites, but always condemns our Allies?
Do you know that J. Edgar Hoover said: "the overwhelming-majority of the communist-delegations to the U.N. are espionage-agents" and that 66 Senators voted for a "Consular Treaty" to open our entire country to Russian spies and saboteurs?
Do you know that the U.N. helps Russias conquest of the world by preventing the free world from taking any action whatsoever except to debate each new aggression in the U.N. General Assembly?
Do you know that at the time of the Korean War there were 60 Nations in the U.N., yet 95% of the U.N. forces were our American sons and practically 100% of the cost was paid by the United States taxpayers?
And surely you know that the U.N. policy during the Korean and Vietnam Wars was to prevent us from winning those wars?
Do you know that all the battle-plans of General McArthur had to go first to the U.N. to be relayed to Vasialia, Commander of the North Koreans and Red Chinese, and that any future wars fought by our sons under the U.N. flag would have to be fought by our sons under the control of the U.N. Security Council?
Do you know that the U.N. has never done anything about the 80,000 Russian Mongolian troops that occupy Hungary?
Where was the U.N. when the Hungarian freedom-fighters were slaughtered by the Russians?
Do you know that the U.N. and its peace-army turned the Congo over to the communists?
Do you know that the U.N.s own, so-called, peace-force was used to crush, rape, and kill the white anti-communists in Katanga?
Do you know that the U.N. stood by and did nothing while Red China invaded Laos and Vietnam? That it did nothing while Nero invaded Goa and other Portuguese territories?
Do you know that the U.N. was directly-responsible for aiding Castro? That it does absolutely nothing about the many thousands of Cuban youngsters who are shipped to Russia for communist-indoctrination.
Do you know that Adlai Stevenson said: "the free world must expect to lose more and more decisions in the U.N.."
Do you know that the U.N. openly proclaims that its chief objective is a "one-world government" which means "one-world laws," "one-world court," "one-world schools," and a "one-world church" in which Christianity would be prohibited?
Do you know that a U.N. law has been passed to disarm all American citizens and to transfer all our armed forces to the U.N.? Such a law was secretly signed by saint Jack Kennedy in 1961.
Do you realize how that fits in with Article 47, paragraph 3, of the U.N. Charter, which states and I quote: "the military staff committee of the U.N. shall be responsible through the Security Council for the strategic direction of all armed forces placed at the disposal of the Security Council" and when and if all our armed forces are transferred to the U.N., your sons would be forced to serve and die under the U.N. command all over the world. This will happen unless you fight to get the U.S. out of the U.N..
Do you know that Congressman James B. Utt has submitted a bill to get the U.S. out of the U.N. and a resolution to prevent our President from forcing-us to support the U.N. embargoes on Rhodesia?
Well, he has and many people all over the country are writing to their representatives to support the Utt bill and resolution. Fifty Congressmen, spear-headed by Schweiker and Moorhead of Pennsylvania, have introduced a bill to immediately transfer all our armed forces to the U.N.? Can you imagine such brazen treason? Is your Congressman one of those 50 traitors? Find out and take immediate action against him and help Congressman Utt."Now do you know that the "National Council of Churches" passed a resolution in San Francisco which states that the United States will soon have to subordinate its will to that of the U.N. and that all American citizens must be prepared to accept it? Is your church a member of the "National Council of Churches?" In connection with that, bear in mind that God is never mentioned in the U.N. Charter and their meetings are never opened with prayer."The creators of the U.N. stipulated in advance that there should be no mention of God or Jesus Christ in the U.N. Charter or in its U.N. headquarters. Does your pastor subscribe to that? Find out! Furthermore, do you know that the great majority of the, so-called, Nations in the U.N. are anti-christianity and that the U.N. is a completely Godless organization by orders of its creators, the CFR Illuminati. Have you heard enough of the truth about the Illuminatis United Nations? Do you want to leave your sons and our precious country to the unholy mercy of the Illuminatis United Nations? If you dont, write, telegraph, or phone your Representatives and Senators that they must support Congressman Utts bill to get the U.S. out of the U.N. and the U.N. out of the U.S.. Do it today, now, before you forget! It is the only salvation for your sons and for our country.
"Now I have one more vital message to deliver. As I told you, one of the four specific assignments Rothschild gave Jacob Schiff was to create a movement to destroy religion in the United States, with Christianity to be the chief target. For a very obvious reason, the "Anti-defamation League" wouldnt dare to attempt to do it because such an attempt could create the most terrible blood-bath in the history of the world, not only for the "ADL" and the conspirators, but for the millions of innocent Jews. Schiff turned that job over to Rockefeller for another specific reason. The destruction of Christianity could be accomplished only by those who are entrusted to preserve it. By the pastors, the men of the cloth. "As a starter, John D. Rockefeller picked up a young, so-called, Christian minister by the name of Dr. Harry F. Ward. Reverend Ward if you please. At that time he was teaching religion at the "Union Theological Seminary." Rockefeller found a very willing "Judas" in this Reverend and thereupon in 1907, he financed him to set up the "Methodist Foundation of Social Service" and Wards job was to teach bright young men to become, so-called, ministers of Christ and to place them as pastors of churches. While teaching them to become ministers, the Reverend Ward also taught them how to subtly and craftily preach to their congregations that the entire story of Christ was a myth, to cast doubts on the divinity of Christ, to cast doubts about the virgin Mary, in short: to cast doubts on Christianity as a whole. It was not to be a direct-attack, but much of it to be done by crafty-insinuation that was to be applied, in particular, to the youth in the Sunday schools. Remember Lenins statement: "give me just one generation of youth and Ill transform the whole world." Then in 1908, the "Methodist foundation of Social Service," which incidentally was Americas first communist front-organization, changed its name to the "Federal Council of Churches." By 1950, the "Federal Council of Churches" was becoming very suspect, so in 1950 they changed the name to the "National Council of Churches." Do I have to tell you more about how this "National Council of Churches" is deliberately destroying faith in Christianity?
"Incidentally, this same Reverend Harry F. Ward was also one of the founders of the "American Civil Liberties Union," a notorious pro-Communist organization. He was the actual head of it from 1920 to 1940. He also was a co-founder of the "American League against War and Fascism" which, under Browder, became the "Communist Party of the United States." In short, Wards entire background reeked of communism and he was identified as a member of the Communist party. He died a vicious traitor to both his church and country and this was the man old John D. Rockefeller picked and financed to destroy Americas Christian religion in accordance with the orders given to Schiff by the Rothschilds. "In conclusion I have this to say. You probably are familiar with the story of how one Dr. Frankenstein created a monster to do his will of destroying his chosen victims but how instead in the end, that monster turned on his own creator, Frankenstein, and destroyed him. Well, the Illuminati/CFR has created a monster called the "United Nations" (who is supported by their minority groups, rioting Negroes, the traitorous mass-communications media, and the traitors in Washington D.C.) which was created to destroy the American people. We know all about that many-headed hydromonster and we know the names of those who created that monster. We know all their names and I predict that one fine day the American people will come fully awake and cause that very monster to destroy its creator. True! The majority of our people are still being brainwashed, deceived, and deluded by our traitorous press, TV, and radio, and by our traitors in Washington D.C., but surely by now enough is known about the U.N. to stamp out that outfit as a deadly poisonous rattlesnake in our midst. "My only wonder is: "what will it take to awaken and arouse our people to the full proof?" Perhaps this record (transcript) will do it. A hundred thousand or a million copies of this record (this transcript) can do it. I prey to God it will. And I pray that this record (transcript) will inspire you, all of you, to spread this story to all loyal Americans in your community. You can do it by playing it (reading it) to study groups assembled in your homes, at meetings of the American Legion, the VFW, the DAR, all other civic groups and womens clubs, especially the womens clubs who have their sons lives at stake. With this record (transcript) I have provided you with the weapon that will destroy the monster. For the love of God, of our Country, and of your children, use it! Get a copy of it into every American home.
As more and more people begin to starve to death around the world, because of actions directly related to Washington, DC, perhaps more Americans will begin to understand why Judgment will come against them. The United States (not America), is the New World Order, and most of the rest of the world understands this.
Back to Contents
