# The Unholy Alliance - Christianity and The NWO - 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_nwo14b.htm

Part II 6 March 2002
Kingpins In The Unholy Alliance Evangelists & Politicians
Part 1 of this article, "The Unholy Alliance: Christianity & The NWO" dealt generally with the relationship between this nations leading evangelicals, Rev Sun Myung Moon, and the U.S. Intelligence community as strange bedfellows. This short follow up will attempt to go deeper into the makeup of these organizations, and how they work together.
Every attempt to document the claims, statements and facts herein have been made so as not to unjustly accuse or impugn the integrity of those mentioned. But in the end, if such an unholy alliance exists, there are manifold truths which likely will never surface to the light of day for exposure and examination. We will deal with what can be verified be reasonable sources. Amazingly, most of these organizations are almost entirely made up of the same individuals. Trinity Broadcasting Network, Christian Broadcasting and most leading evangelicals/pastors in this unique electronic limelight are also directly associated with these groups, or have been in the past. The vast majority of these men have spent decades making forays into political groups of this nature. The question is:
What are they doing?
Where would these Moon money men lead the flock they say God has charged them with as shepherds?
Is it untoward to ask such questions, to scrutinize their political involvement with Moon?
We think not. In fact, we feel it is imperative. We have already shown that some evangelicals have unabashedly admitted Moon sponsorship, such as Jerry Falwell. It seems that most though try to sweep this dirt under the rug. Is their ultimate goal to lead the religious right blindly and willingly into the NWO, something openly hailed by preachers and presidents alike?
Billy Graham In 1992, broadcast across the US on Grahams radio program "Embrace America 2000," after Bush Sr. gave his now infamous New World Order Speech, the Rev. Billy Graham said that we should "embrace" this "New World Order". In Erwin Wilson's book, "The Assimilation of Evangelist Billy Graham into the Roman Catholic Church" the renowned Bob Jones who wrote the forward said, "
"Some of us who grieved over Grahams first downward steps toward compromise with apostasy and biblical unbelief knew that he was pursuing a direction from which there would be no turning back. While we grieved over him and prayed for him, we had to warn men against his ministry as we had warned Billy against his direction."
Protestant Church Life Magazine quoted Graham in its Sept. 29, 1956 issue, Referring to the Billy Graham New York Crusade scheduled for May, 1957, Dr. Graham said:
"Were coming to New York not to clean it up, but to get people to dedicate themselves to God and to send them on to their own churches -- Catholic, Protestant or Jewish."
This has remained the practice of Graham to this day. The Charlotte Observer reported on a press release of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, where Billy Graham lashes out at Southern Baptists who desire to evangelize Jews for Christ. Graham makes it clear that he firmly opposes "proselytizing" the Jews; Billy Grahams unbiblical teaching is that, if you are a Jew, you are already part of the Body of Christ, even if you reject Jesus.
All Jews, Graham states "are engrafted into the Christian Church." And yet, many of Grahams past statements have proved to be antisemitic, as recently embarrassing Nixon White house tapes have revealed. In 1982, Billy Graham was awarded the Templeton Prize for "progress in religion", a cash reward of roughly 1 Million dollars. Graham in turn endorsed Sir John Marks Templetons books in "Christianity Today" magazine. Templeton is a universalist (1), just like Moon, preaching/teaching the unity and unification of all world religions. Other recipients of the Templeton award have been Charles Colson (1993) and Bill Bright (1996), founder of Campus Crusade for Christ. Templetons New Age unification principles and teachings were introduced dramatically into the Christian mainstream by Robert Schuller in 1986, who continues to endorse the man and his doctrines. For decades Graham has offered a confusing doctrinal stance.
Billy Graham said,
"I found that my beliefs are essentially the same as those of orthodox Catholics. We only differ on some matters of later church tradition. I find that my beliefs are essentially the same as those of orthodox Roman Catholics" (Jan 1978, McCalls Magazine).
"I found that my beliefs are essentially the same as those of orthodox Catholics. We only differ on some matters of later church tradition. I find that my beliefs are essentially the same as those of orthodox Roman Catholics"
(Jan 1978, McCalls Magazine).
In the book "Billy Graham, A Parable of American Righteousness" by Marshal Frady, we see a very different picture of Graham. Frady has spent much time interviewing Graham, and those close to him. He documents that Graham at a New York Crusade refused to allow street people into the crusade because they were dirty, a loathsome violation of every Christian creed toward the poor, to whom the Gospel Jesus made declaration.
This is tantamount to the Galatians incident in scripture when Peter, fearing the reproach of certain Judaisers of wealth and status, withdrew himself from associating with gentiles, and the Apostle Paul had to oppose him to his face publicly, "for he was to be blamed" (Galatians 2:11, The New Testament). With the release of the Nixon tapes we see a very shaky, strangely unchristian past for Graham. He is also quoted as saying,
"Pope John Paul II has emerged as the greatest religious leader of the modern world and one of the greatest moral...leaders of this century." (The Saturday Evening Post, Feb, 1980.)
"Pope John Paul II has emerged as the greatest religious leader of the modern world and one of the greatest moral...leaders of this century."
(The Saturday Evening Post, Feb, 1980.)
Though Graham is stating a fact, how does it reflect on his ministry of the Gospel of Jesus Christ from a Protestant position? More examples of a homogenization of the message and messengers for the sake of public appeal. Pope John Paul II, often called "The Marian Pope," has stirred countless millions of Europeans to have faith in strange, supernatural Marian apparitions which directly challenge the Word of God, the Supremacy and Divinity of Jesus Christ and the Scriptural means of salvation ("Messages From Heaven," Eternal Productions, http://video.labargemedia.com/html/index.htm)" In "The Deadly Deception", by Jim Shaw, an ex-33rd degree mason (Masons are believed by many to be associated with the Illuminati, and to be the driving force behind the NWO) p. 104-105, Shaw relates how Graham was present at his ceremony initiating him into the 33rd degree. Only freemasons are allowed to attend these ceremonies.
Huffington house refused to publish this book until after Grahams name was removed, and in place a simple reference to "a well known evangelist" was supplemented. Robert Schuller (Crystal Cathedral/Self-help pulpit guru), Norman Vincent Peale (Positive Thinking apostle), and Oral Roberts (Godfather of the "seed-faith" doctrines in contemporary fundamentalist-charismatic Christianity) are all admittedly 33rd degree Masons. The rites of the Masonic order, the writings of Albert Pike and the requisites for Masonic initiates are distinctly and undeniably counter to Christian doctrine and faith. He is a supporter of the National Council of Churches and the World Council of Churches, where a belief in Jesus Christ is a nonessential. He has been quoted in an interview with Robert Schuller that there are many paths to God and he respects them all. Of course, as was mentioned in the previous article, he participated in prayer offered up to the god of Mohammhed (Allah). At that gathering were many Jews, Muslims, Christians and many other faiths gathered together praying to the god of Islam as the God of Abraham -- a distinct moment of "unification". Is Billy Graham working toward the goal of a New World Order? Is it merely a matter of decades of compromise with the world, or something more strategic?
I wrote to the Billy Graham Evangelical Ministries, to ask what moved him to participate in a prayer to the god of Mohammhed, and to date have received no answer.
Tim LaHaye Tim LaHayes relationship with Moon goes back at least 17 years. In 1985 as was reported earlier, LaHaye was addressing several hundred evangelical Christians, the flock he claims to guard and feed, and did he exhort that they draw closer to his God? No, unless his god is the Reverend Sun Myung Moon. He exhorted that they go willingly to jail with the Rev. Moon in demonstration to his imprisonment over tax fraud. (The spin on the story has been that LaHaye and others were supporting Rev. Moons "religious freedom") While in prison, Moon continued to spout out to the world that he is the anointed messiah, and also at that time, he pronounced a day when he claims he opened heaven. LaHaye visited him and apologized for the actions of the U.S. Government which imprisoned him. Also visiting Moon in prison was the president of one of the groups chaired by LaHaye. This was the AFC (American Freedom Coalition) president, Don Sills. (Truth is my Sword Vol 2, by Bo Hi Pak, The Watchman Expositor) LaHaye is also the founder of the ACTV (American Coalition for Traditional Values). Bo Hi Pak, Moons #1 man, formerly Korean CIA and the operative that was liaison to American CIA, gave a very sizable donation to help steady the new organization, after which, LaHaye agreed to sit as a member of the board of directors for the Rev. Moon sponsored "Christian Voice" group. (Americans United For Separation of Church and State/Feb 2002) The highly influential "Left Behind" author was also associated in a group called the Council for Religious Freedom, but when it was made public that this was another Moon front, LaHaye apparently resigned from the group, though his name was not at the time stricken from their membership roster. Though LaHaye resigned, others after him signed on, continuing to bolster its credibility. These include Paul Crouch of the Trinity Broadcasting Network. Among the other bizarre goings on within the Moon/Conservative alliance, a young, black Zimbabwean claiming that he is the reincarnation of Moons dead son has also spoken at functions of the American Freedom Coalition. (CRI Journal-CRJ0092A). Moon himself has revealed that this claim of reincarnation is true. The LaHayes were also involved in a meeting sponsored by Moon in 1996, through the Family Federation for World Peace as well as the Womens Federation for World Peace (two Moon sponsored organizations), a 3 day seminar in Washington D.C., from July 31-August 2, along with several other highly visible evangelicals. Beverly LaHaye received between $80-150,000 for speaking at the event. (2) In 1999, Tim LaHaye and co-author Jerry Jenkins wrote (3) that the Catholic church was very likely the Great Harlot sitting on the beast in Revelation 17 and 18, their reason being that they believe the Catholic church may attempt to unify the worlds religions, though they wrote differently in their "Left Behind" book series.
LaHaye and his family are involved directly with groups sponsored by and in some cases founded upon money from a false messiah whose objective is publicly stated, and loudly at that, for the unification of world religions. So where exactly does LaHaye stand if in doctrine he warns of unification brought about by Rome, and yet associates with the Unification Church? Rev. Moon states in his address, Life on Earth and in the Spirit World :
"This is why God created so many different religions: to be training grounds to make a path for every people, culture, custom, and tradition. Religions polish people to be qualified to enter the region of the original homeland. Because of humankinds many different cultural backgrounds, God sought and set the standard of comparison and has been leading the way toward one unified religious world." (4)
This is rather peculiar in light of the apparent diversity of world religions in doctrine, practice and teachings, each with their own sense of exclusivity of one another, sometimes to the very inspiration of holy war. According to Group Watch, a cult watchdog organization, Don Sills is another evangelical leader who stated that he would recruit members from a group directly associated with Rev. Moon, CAUSA, to become members of his AFC (American Freedom Coalition) organization.
In March of 1988, Sills appeared on Trinity Broadcasting Networks flagship program "Praise the Lord" warning people away from listening to cult watch groups, being concerned for the division and fear they may bring. Of course these anti-cult groups tell us that since Moon claims Jesus will worship at Moons feet, and inflicts mind control techniques over his followers, his religion is a cult that should by all means be avoided and certainly watched.
Paul Crouch is another who seems to shy away from the overall doctrine espoused on his "Christian" television network, and appears to work for religious unification. The Tangled Web Revealed...
The Council for National Policy
We touched on this council in Part 1, but now we shall take a closer look at it and its members. This group was founded by Tim LaHaye in 1981. Again we have shown definite ties between this "Christian" organization and the Rev. Moons openly anti-Christ organizations.
This will be addressed later more fully, but this group is also associated heavily with the controversial and cultic Church of Scientology, the John Birch Society (known for its espionage work), and the intelligence community. (Note: we attempted to get JBS board member lists but the Society returned a response that it was their policy not to reveal names of its board members). It was stated by Congressman Woody Jenkins (Newsweek,1981)
"I predict that one day before the end of this century the Council [for National Policy] will be so influential that no President, regardless of party or philosophy, will be able to ignore us or our concerns or shut us out of the highest levels of government."
In October, 1999 George W. Bush addressed the CNP. His campaign refused to release the full text of his remarks. Why the secrecy?? Beverly LaHaye, as was previously noted, is the wife of Tim LaHaye. She also was and still may be part of the CNP, and also founder of Concerned Women for America. She joined forces with Citizens Council on Human Rights, a group affiliated with Scientology, and Gary Bauers Family Research Council, which has benefited as well from Rev. Moon organizations and money.
This all under the umbrella of social change and "Christian family values" in America. Mrs. LaHaye and Bauer appeared and spoke together in a 1995 rally against psychiatric practices on children. The question is, regardless of a good cause, is it necessary for these evangelical leaders to join forces with Moon, Scientology and the Intelligence community?
It doesnt take a rocket scientist to recognize that many groups use charitable giving/participation, patriotic associations and demonstrations of community or national good will to obfuscate their true objectives and agenda, or to conceal and deflect attention from their wrong-doing. LaHayes group, the Council for National Policy, is just one example of evangelical organizations being filled with Intelligence officers, Moon representatives and Scientology members. To name all the members who were and are involved in the intelligence community and cults would take too long here, but here are just a few; (5)
Howard Ahmanson Jr. (CNP Board of Governors) Contributed to the Council of Foreign Relations according to their 1990-1993 reports
Thomas R. Anderson (CNP Board of Governors) Also sits on the board of the Moon front Family Research Council.
Rep John Ashbrook (CNP Board of Governors) Also a member of Moons front group "Christian Voice".
Richard Bott (CNP Board of Governors) Former writer for the Moon owned Washington times.
Jeffrey Coors (CNP Board of Governors) Coors brewing Co.
Joseph Coors (CNP Board of Governors) President Adolph Coors Company
Arnaul DBorchgrave (CNP Member) Editor in chief of the Moon owned Washington times, member of the Council of Foreign Relations(CFR).
George Gilder (CNP Board of Governors) Program director for Rockerfeller funded Manhattan Institute, friend of David Rockerfeller, and a member of the Council of Foreign Relations (CFR).
Ron Godwin (CNP Member) Former Vice President of Falwells Moral Majority, Sr Vice President of the Moon owned Washington times
Allan Gottleib (CNP Member) Board Member of Moons front group, the American Freedom Coalition. In 1983 the Moon group CAUSA, founded by Bo Hi Pak, former Korean CIA and liaison to the American CIA, and Moons right hand man, granted Gottleib an all expense paid trip to Jamaica for a CAUSA conference
J. Peter Grace (CNP Member) Council of Foreign Relations, Knights of Malta, and worked with the CIA to remove classified info concerning former Nazi scientists so that they could immigrate into the U.S., supposedly so they could carry on their work (including mind control projects) here in the good ole U.S.of A.
Lt. General Daniel Graham (CNP Board of Governors) Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Deputy Director CIA, Military advisor to President Reagan, publicly endorses the Moon owned Washington Times. Also a member of the Moon org, World Anti-Communist League, and board of Directors for Moons CAUSA. Member of the American Freedom Coalition. Vice Chairman for the U.S. Council for World Freedom, which also is closely related to Moons CAUSA. Member too of the Council of 56, Religious Roundtable.
Robert Grant (CNP Directory) Founder of "Christian Voice", and the American Freedom Coalition, both are Moon sponsored orgs. Graduate of the fuller Theological Seminary, and member of the Religious Roundtable. Bo Hi Pak has praised the union between these Christian organizations and Moonie orgs saying "...it shows what a great since of humor God has." Grants "Christian Voice" claims to be the nations largest Christian lobby, and according to the Philadelphia Inquirer, merged with Moon in 1987.
Sen. Jesse Helms (CNP Board of Governors) also of the Religious Roundtable, endorser of the Moon owned Washington times, and a member of the Council of Foreign Relations (CFR).
Max Hugel (CNP Member) Former special assistant CIA Deputy Director for Administration, and Deputy Director for Operations
Jack Kemp (CNP Member) Co Director of Empower American, whose board is dominated by the Council of Foreign Relations (CFR).
Alan Keyes (CNP Member) Former Ambassador to the United Nations. He was also part of Reagan's National Security Team which was dominated by high level Council of Foreign Relations men (CFR).
Edwin Meese (CNP Executive Committee, CNP President) Former Attorney General, former Chief of Staff
Notice that many mentioned, (as well as many not mentioned) are members of the CFR (Council of Foreign Relations). This is a group espousing the New World Order and have actively and openly worked toward it for decades. Not surprisingly, the man who popularized the phrase "New World Order," George Bush Sr, was also at one time head of the CFR. A reminder that some of the evangelical members of the CNP have included:
Beverly and Lee LaHaye, also associated with Moons CWA group Gary Bauer Bill Bright James Dobson (Focus On The Family) Bob Dugan Ron Godwin Robert Grant Rebecca Hagelin Bob Jones the 3rd (Bob Jones University) Alan Keyes (Outspoken ultra-conservative black talk show host and author) Dr. D. James Kennedy (noted television evangelist and Pastor) Peter Marshall Sam Moore of Thomas Nelson Publishing Pat Robertson (founder of the Christian Broadcasting Network and former Presidential aspirant) Rev. Duane Motley Ralph Reed Oliver North (formerly with the National Security Council) Phyllis Schlafly (ultra-right columnist and pundit) Rev. Jim Woodall John Ankerberg (internationally recognized Christian television personality) Rev. E.V. Hill James Robison Pat Boone Larry Burkett Reed Larson and many others (5)
Beverly and Lee LaHaye, also associated with Moons CWA group
Gary Bauer
Bill Bright
James Dobson (Focus On The Family)
Bob Dugan
Ron Godwin
Robert Grant
Rebecca Hagelin
Bob Jones the 3rd (Bob Jones University)
Alan Keyes (Outspoken ultra-conservative black talk show host and author)
Dr. D. James Kennedy (noted television evangelist and Pastor)
Peter Marshall
Sam Moore of Thomas Nelson Publishing
Pat Robertson (founder of the Christian Broadcasting Network and former Presidential aspirant)
Rev. Duane Motley
Ralph Reed
Oliver North (formerly with the National Security Council)
Phyllis Schlafly (ultra-right columnist and pundit)
Rev. Jim Woodall
John Ankerberg (internationally recognized Christian television personality)
Rev. E.V. Hill
James Robison
Pat Boone
Larry Burkett
Reed Larson
and many others (5)
So now we must ask ourselves why are these people associated together under the front of "Christian" organizations? Is it merely coincidence? To assume such is to be remarkably naive and woefully remiss in learning the lessons of past history. By comparing the members of the CNP and cross referencing them with any large Christian or Moon organization, and many of the politically right-wing PAC (Political Action Committee) organizations, you will find essentially that these organizations are made up of the same people. Is this a ruse, to draw evangelical believers and right wing patriots into the NWO? It certainly seems to be. Moon states his goal is to unify the worlds religions thereby unifying the world. Bo Hi Pak states:
"We want to awaken the world. We want to turn the tide [so] that this totalitarian, godless system must go....It is a total war. Basically a war of ideas." (6)
These organizations work together tightly, and nearly every major evangelical name that can be named is involved with these apostate organizations, fleecing their sheep in order to help fund these groups; A large number of these "great men of God" can be found living in palatial homes, driving exorbitantly expensive automobiles and owning personal jets and relishing accolades as great teachers of the faith.
These men seem more like the Pharisees of Jesus day, who denied Him as well, yet 40 years later came to their destruction following a false messiah. They speak at each others functions, support one another monetarily, and cause many to believe that they do it in the name of God and in harmony with Gods will (many claiming direct divine revelation, inspiration and in some cases unquestionable supernatural authority).
The Bible they themselves espouse refers to them as hirelings. For your own research, it is recommend to those of you who can, do a simple Internet search using the following keywords:
LaHaye, Rev.Moon, CIA Falwell, Moon, Liberty University Paul Crouch, Rev. Moon Hal Lindsey, Rev. Moon Councel of 56 Religious Roundtable Concerned Women of America, Rev Moon, Beverly LaHaye Coalition for Religious Freedom, Moon, LaHaye CAUSA, Falwell, Moon Billy Graham, Mohammhed, Washington, Transcript American Freedom Coalition, Moon, Crouch, LaHaye, 6 Million Council for National Policy, members
LaHaye, Rev.Moon, CIA
Falwell, Moon, Liberty University
Paul Crouch, Rev. Moon
Hal Lindsey, Rev. Moon
Councel of 56 Religious Roundtable
Concerned Women of America, Rev Moon, Beverly LaHaye
Coalition for Religious Freedom, Moon, LaHaye
CAUSA, Falwell, Moon
Billy Graham, Mohammhed, Washington, Transcript
American Freedom Coalition, Moon, Crouch, LaHaye, 6 Million
Council for National Policy, members
References/Notes:
(1) Sir John Marks Templeton, "Discovering The Laws of Life", published by Continuum/1994, 320 pages, 0-8264-0861-3 (2) The Calvary Contender Newsletter, October, 2001. Dave Hunt, The Berean Call, Sept.,1996 (3) LaHaye/Jenkins, Are We Living In The End Times?, 1999, Tyndale House Pub; ISBN: 0842336443 (4) Chung Hwan Kwak, International President, Family Federation for World Peace and Unification International, March, 1998 (5) Database of Council for National Policyhttp://www.ifas.org/cnp/Notes: At the leadership levels in both the national office and state chapters, the American Freedom Coalition is closely tied to the Rev. Sun Myung Moons Unification Church. The Washington Post (March 30, 1988) has even described the AFC as a "Moon sponsored lobbying group. "(34) The links between the two entities are so extensive that they will be discussed here in the Background section as well as in Private Connections. - from "Group Watch" on the CNP http://www.publiceye.org/research/Group_Watch/Entries-05.htm (6) Vol 2, My Sword is Truth, by Bo Hi Pak
Additional Material Of Interest:
Christianity Today, Week of August 6 CT Classic: With Their Leader in Prison, Moonies Pursue Legitimacy Tim LaHaye and other Christians are helping the Unification Church battle the perceived threat of government intrusion. By Beth Spring | posted 8/8/01 (This article originally appeared in the September 7, 1984, issue of Christianity Today.) Full acceptance into the mainstream of American religious life is a cherished goal of Sun Myung Moons Unification Church. Ironically, Moons recent imprisonment for tax evasion appears to be bringing that dream a step closer to reality. "Religious freedom" rallies around the country are drawing thousands of unsuspecting Christians into emotionally charged meetings that portray Moon as a persecuted man of God. No ties with the Unification Church are mentioned in promotional mailings. The sponsors are identified as a coalition of Christian leaders including author Tim LaHaye; Robert Grant, of Christian Voice; and Joseph Lowery, of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. Greg Dixon and Everett Sileven, leaders of a coalition of independent, fundamentalist churches, are involved as well. The sponsors view Moon as a persecuted ally in an escalating battle against secular humanism and government intrusion into church ministries. "One persons religious freedom equates to everyones religious freedom," LaHaye says. "If one persons freedom is robbed, then potentially anyones religious freedom can be robbed." Whether Moon is a victim of persecution or a felon is a matter of considerable debate. There is little doubt, however, that the entire affair is a public relations bonanza for his church. Darrel Malcom, senior pastor of Webber Street Church of Christ in Urbana, Illinois, accepted an offer for an expense-paid trip to Washington, D.C., to attend the massive "Pageant for Religious Freedom" on July 25. He learned of the event from two Unification Church members in Urbana. Their involvement gave him pause, but he says he accepted their invitation because he respects LaHaye. LaHaye is cochairman of the Coalition on Religious Freedom, the group that sponsored the event. Malcom says he enjoyed the lavish production, but returned home feeling "a little bit used." "I felt there was a hidden agenda of trying to buy legitimacy [for Moon] within the Christian community. Im not ready to grant that." When Malcom returned home, Unification Church members asked him to consider sponsoring a local rally in support of Moon. "They wanted to meet and discuss getting Christians together," he says. "I said I do not consider their group Christian." A narrator introduced actors portraying heroes of American religious history. At the end, a melodramatic enactment of Moons trial and sentencing drew a chorus of boos and hisses for his prosecutor and sustained cheers for Moon. Following the performance, LaHaye spoke to the audience. "If we have the same percentage of religious freedom attacks in the next 15 years as we have had in the past 15 years, well no longer have religious freedom in America," he said. LaHaye did not mention Moon by name. The evenings dramatic climax came when Moons daughter, In Jin Moon, choked back tears as she spoke of her father. "I have almost never seen my father sleep. He is always up working and praying. I have never seen anyone so dedicated to Americas dream and to God." She read a statement prepared by Moon for the gathering. It referred to America as Gods final hope, "his precious jewel which he prepared for the final battle against atheistic communism in the last days." Moons statement emphasized the need for churches to unite-a central theme of Unification teaching. "Here in prison God can use me to awaken America more powerfully than ever before. Americas religious communities must be united to preserve religious freedom." Chris Nauser, a 36-year-old Moonie from Switzerland, viewed the rally as "just one part of the whole development of an awakening" that will sweep the world. He shares the belief of most of Moons followers that Moon himself is the Messiah. The Unification Church teaches that Jesus Christ failed in his redemptive mission and, before his death, lied about his coming resurrection. Moonies teach that mankind is in need of physical redemption, which will come by the marriage of an ideal man and woman. The man is to be from Korea-Moon himself.
Christianity Today, Week of August 6
CT Classic: With Their Leader in Prison, Moonies Pursue Legitimacy Tim LaHaye and other Christians are helping the Unification Church battle the perceived threat of government intrusion.
By Beth Spring | posted 8/8/01 (This article originally appeared in the September 7, 1984, issue of Christianity Today.)
Full acceptance into the mainstream of American religious life is a cherished goal of Sun Myung Moons Unification Church. Ironically, Moons recent imprisonment for tax evasion appears to be bringing that dream a step closer to reality.
"Religious freedom" rallies around the country are drawing thousands of unsuspecting Christians into emotionally charged meetings that portray Moon as a persecuted man of God. No ties with the Unification Church are mentioned in promotional mailings. The sponsors are identified as a coalition of Christian leaders including author Tim LaHaye; Robert Grant, of Christian Voice; and Joseph Lowery, of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. Greg Dixon and Everett Sileven, leaders of a coalition of independent, fundamentalist churches, are involved as well.
The sponsors view Moon as a persecuted ally in an escalating battle against secular humanism and government intrusion into church ministries.
"One persons religious freedom equates to everyones religious freedom," LaHaye says. "If one persons freedom is robbed, then potentially anyones religious freedom can be robbed."
Whether Moon is a victim of persecution or a felon is a matter of considerable debate. There is little doubt, however, that the entire affair is a public relations bonanza for his church.
Darrel Malcom, senior pastor of Webber Street Church of Christ in Urbana, Illinois, accepted an offer for an expense-paid trip to Washington, D.C., to attend the massive "Pageant for Religious Freedom" on July 25. He learned of the event from two Unification Church members in Urbana. Their involvement gave him pause, but he says he accepted their invitation because he respects LaHaye. LaHaye is cochairman of the Coalition on Religious Freedom, the group that sponsored the event. Malcom says he enjoyed the lavish production, but returned home feeling "a little bit used."
"I felt there was a hidden agenda of trying to buy legitimacy [for Moon] within the Christian community. Im not ready to grant that."
When Malcom returned home, Unification Church members asked him to consider sponsoring a local rally in support of Moon.
"They wanted to meet and discuss getting Christians together," he says. "I said I do not consider their group Christian."
A narrator introduced actors portraying heroes of American religious history. At the end, a melodramatic enactment of Moons trial and sentencing drew a chorus of boos and hisses for his prosecutor and sustained cheers for Moon.
Following the performance, LaHaye spoke to the audience.
"If we have the same percentage of religious freedom attacks in the next 15 years as we have had in the past 15 years, well no longer have religious freedom in America," he said.
LaHaye did not mention Moon by name.
The evenings dramatic climax came when Moons daughter, In Jin Moon, choked back tears as she spoke of her father. "I have almost never seen my father sleep. He is always up working and praying. I have never seen anyone so dedicated to Americas dream and to God." She read a statement prepared by Moon for the gathering. It referred to America as Gods final hope,
"his precious jewel which he prepared for the final battle against atheistic communism in the last days."
Moons statement emphasized the need for churches to unite-a central theme of Unification teaching.
"Here in prison God can use me to awaken America more powerfully than ever before. Americas religious communities must be united to preserve religious freedom."
Chris Nauser, a 36-year-old Moonie from Switzerland, viewed the rally as "just one part of the whole development of an awakening" that will sweep the world. He shares the belief of most of Moons followers that Moon himself is the Messiah. The Unification Church teaches that Jesus Christ failed in his redemptive mission and, before his death, lied about his coming resurrection. Moonies teach that mankind is in need of physical redemption, which will come by the marriage of an ideal man and woman. The man is to be from Korea-Moon himself.
Go Back
