# The Secret History Of The Freemasons In Japan

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_masonsknightstemplar04.htm

by Benjamin Fulford Exclusive to Rense.com 7-2-7 from Rense Website
Japanese Freemasons claim their links with Western Freemasons go back to ancient Mesopotamian and Egyptian times but, I have not been able to verify this. The earliest verifiable links go back to when the Khazar empire was destroyed by the Mongols and the Russians about 1,000 years ago. At the time their elite class fled with their treasure into Europe and China. The group that fled to China then fled to Japan as Kublai Khan's armies conquered China. That is why the Star of David can be seen in 1,000 year-old shrines in Japan.
The original Khazars were fully assimilated by the Japanese elite over the ensuing centuries but certain Freemason/Khazar influences became a permanent part of Japanese culture. After Admiral Perry arrived and forced the Japanese to open up their economy, the Rothschild's man in Asia, Jardine Matheson, sent an agent to Japan. His name was Thomas Blake Glover and his mission was to create a new arms market by starting a civil war in Japan. The ultimate aim of this war was to prepare Japan for colonization. He managed to sell some battleships and weapons but in the end, Glover's plot was uncovered and he was driven into bankruptcy. By this time, learning of the association with their long lost cousins, the Freemasons decided on a different approach. A different Rothschild Freemason agent, Guido H.F. Verbeck, started a very successful Japanese franchise. He is the man in the center of this below photograph.
The people around him are the founding fathers of modern Japan and the senior members of the original modern Freemason lodge. They set up the Meiji emperor as their symbol and modernized Japan. The Japanese masons were given full assistance by their English and European counterparts and were thus able to defeat the old Khazar nemesis, Imperial Russia, in the Russo-Japanese war. In later years, confronted by Western racism, the Japanese Freemasons decided they needed to conquer and modernize all of Asia. Their ultimate aim was to prepare for a final show-down with the West and make Tokyo the capital of a world empire. They allied themselves with the Baron Rothschild (known to us as Adolph Hitler) and were badly defeated by the Rockefellers. After the war, the victorious Rockefellers arrived in Japan to survey their new possession. Negotiations on the new post-war order took place mainly inside the Japanese Grand Lodge (it is a hidden underground facility next to Tokyo Tower). Every Japanese Prime Minister since the war has been a Freemason. To the Japanese it is common knowledge that their secret rulers are David Rockefeller and his nephew Jay Rockefeller. The old Rothschild connection still exists but, since the Rockefellers were victorious in WW2, it is the upstart Rockefellers who exert the greatest control. To this day Japan remains a vassal state, making huge annual payments to their new masters. In theory, they can cash in on the $35 trillion in worthless paper (official data put the number at close to $5 trillion, secret data at over $35 trillion) they have been given in exchange for 60 years of supplying Americans with radios, TVs, cars etc.
In reality, any Japanese Prime Minister who tried to do this was killed or deposed. More recently the Japanese have been threatened into submission with powerful secret weapons. Using former Prime Minister Koizumi and Finance Minister Heizo Takenaka (a Henry Kissinger prot'g') they also engineered a semi-secret take-over of the Japanese commercial banking system.
For example, Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ bank's new logo is a Masonic eye.
Last year the Japanese government provided the Illuminati with close to $800 billion which they have used to finance U.S. wars and to go around the world buying up stocks and real estate. With the arrival of the Chinese secret society into the power equation, the Japanese secret government is now considering how to renegotiate its status. The plan I have suggested to them is to make an alliance with Russia, China, India, the free Muslim countries (e.g. Malaysia, Indonesia), South America and Africa etc. before announcing to the world they will no longer finance the Rockefellers, Rothschilds and their Illuminati ilk. Instead, they will call for a global meeting to discuss a new way of running the planet. They will also offer to finance a battle to end all poverty, environmental destruction and disease within 3 years. Because the U.S. military/industrial socialist system would collapse without Japanese financing, the U.S. would continue to receive generous funding in exchange for a promise to use the Pentagon to lead the new war against poverty, environmental destruction and disease. The U.S.-Japan alliance would thus become a foundation block of the new international system. This plan is under serious consideration and wheels are in motion.
Return to Benjamin Fulford
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to Masons and Knights Templar
