# The Police State Road Map - 09

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/policestate_roadmap/policestate_roadmap09.htm

Chapter 9 THE WAR ON TERROR
9.1 CIA/MI6/Mossad/ISI: The Global Terrorist Network 9.2 Proliferating Weapons of Mass Destruction In some ways ...[Julia]... was far more acute than Winston, and far less susceptible to Party propaganda. Once when he happened in some connection to mention the war against Eurasia, she startled him by saying casually that in her opinion the war was not happening. The rocket bombs which fell daily on London were probably fired by the Government of Oceania itself, 'just to keep people frightened'. This was an idea that had literally never occurred to him. She also stirred a sort of envy in him by telling him that during the Two Minutes Hate her great difficulty was to avoid bursting out laughing. -George Orwell, 1984
9.1 CIA/MI6/Mossad/ISI: The Global Terrorist Network 9.2 Proliferating Weapons of Mass Destruction
In some ways ...[Julia]... was far more acute than Winston, and far less susceptible to Party propaganda. Once when he happened in some connection to mention the war against Eurasia, she startled him by saying casually that in her opinion the war was not happening. The rocket bombs which fell daily on London were probably fired by the Government of Oceania itself, 'just to keep people frightened'. This was an idea that had literally never occurred to him. She also stirred a sort of envy in him by telling him that during the Two Minutes Hate her great difficulty was to avoid bursting out laughing. -George Orwell,
1984
Some of the most comprehensive sources on government sponsored terrorism are Paul J. Watson's book, Order Out of Chaos: Elite Sponsored Terrorism and the New World Order, and Alex Jones' book, 9-11 Descent into Tyranny.
This chapter does little more than to summarize these works. There are also some useful websites specifically on 9/11, such as www.septembereleventh.org, www.911Truth.org, www.letsroll911.org, www.reopen911.org, www.911inplanesite.com and www.911citizenswatch.org.
9.1 CIA/MI6/Mossad/ISI: THE GLOBAL TERRORIST NETWORK When a government wants to do something unpopular, such as taking all our rights away, it secretly creates a more immediate problem, such as demolishing skyscrapers in Manhattan. To satisfy public demand that no more skyscrapers be demolished in Manhattan, the government... takes all our rights away. The people give thanks to Big Brother for his protection and look back with nostalgia on their love affair with civil rights. This is 'problem-reaction-solution' where the sponsors of an undesirable measure pose it as a solution to another problem they secretly created. This crude device was described by Orwell in 1984. The Party sponsored Emmanuel Goldstein's terrorist network, 'The Brotherhood' and pretended that Oceania was engaged in continual wars against Eurasia and Eastasia. The external threat justified the totalitarian system; anybody who opposed it was an enemy of the state. In the same way today, anybody who supports freedom and opposes war must be a member of Al-Qaeda. It is worth noting a few passages in 1984 to compare with the current 'War on Terror'. Emmanuel Goldstein was once high up in the Party before before becoming a counter-revolutionary:
He was the primal traitor, the earliest defiler of the Party's purity. All subsequent crimes against the Party, all treacheries, acts of sabotage, heresies, deviations, sprang directly out of his teaching... He was the commander of a vast shadowy army, an underground network of conspirators dedicated to the overthrow of the State.
Goldstein was often seen on the tele-screen mouthing his specious claptrap:
He was abusing Big Brother, he was denouncing the dictatorship of the Party, he was demanding the immediate conclusion of peace with Eurasia, he was advocating freedom of speech, freedom of the Press, freedom of assembly, freedom of thought, he was crying hysterically that the revolution had been betrayed
Despite the daily arrests of members of The Brotherhood, Goldstein himself was never caught:
... although Goldstein was hated and despised by everybody, although every day and a thousand times a day, on platforms, on the tele-screen, in newspapers, in books, his theories were refuted, smashed, ridiculed, held up to the general gaze for the pitiful rubbish that they were in spite of all this, his influence never seemed to grow less.... Somewhere or other he was still alive and hatching his conspiracies: perhaps somewhere beyond the sea, under the protection of his foreign paymasters, perhaps even -- so it was occasionally rumored -- in some hiding-place in Oceania itself.
It is marvellous to behold the the brazen attempt by Western governments to pose Osama Bin Laden as a real-life Goldstein in order to justify the watchful eye of Big Brother and to take the world to the brink of a third world war. There are many historical examples of governments using problem-reaction-solution, either committing atrocities and blaming it on their enemies or actually creating enemies for political purposes. Emperor Nero burned Rome and blamed it on the Christians. Hitler burned the Reichstag and blamed it on the communists. Both used this as an excuse to persecute their political enemies. In March 1962, U.S. Army General Lyman L. Lemnitzer presented a plan to the Defense Secretary Robert McNamara for the invasion of Cuba.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff had agreed to stage terrorist outrages to be blamed on Fidel Castro, including hijacking aircraft, sinking an American ship and violent terrorist attacks on U.S. cities. Fake casualty lists in U.S. newspapers would cause a 'helpful wave of indignation'. The official documents on Operation Northwoods were de-classified in 2002 and are now available to read.(1) Islamic terrorism is a corner-stone of the elite's long range planning for a New World Order. The hand of the globalists can be seen grooming Islamic jihad in the Islamic heartlands of the Middle East and central Asia. According to a recent United Press International report:
Israel and Hamas may currently be locked in deadly combat, but, according to several current and former U.S. intelligence officials, beginning in the late 1970s, Tel Aviv gave direct and indirect financial aid to Hamas over a period of years... The thinking on the part of some of the right-wing Israeli establishment was that Hamas and the others, if they gained control, would refuse to have any part of the peace process and would torpedo any agreements put in place.
Ariel Sharon and his Likud party decided that it could discredit the PLO, whose aims were moderate, and respond with even greater violence against the Palestinians if they could link it to terrorist outrages.(2) Similarly the U.S. government played a key role in nurturing its nemesis, Al-Qaeda. By the 1970s the Bushes and the Bin Ladens were owning airports and oil companies together. The majority owners of the world's largest military investment company, the (U.S)$18 billion Carlyle Group, are the Bushes - and until October 2001- the Bin Laden family. Former British Prime Minister John Major is also on its board. The Carlyle Group has been one of the main beneficiaries of the war in Iraq.(3) The policy of recruiting Muslim mercenaries to oppose the Soviets in Afghanistan began under President Carter in 1979. Bush Sr. was CIA Director 1975-1979 and U.S. Vice President 1981-1989. The Mujahdeen received American arms and military training care of the CIA's ally, Pakistan Intelligence (ISI) throughout the 1980s. However the same policy continued after the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989 and the Cold War came to an end. Pakistani support for the Taleban during the Afghan civil war resulted in financial and military assistance going to the Bosnian Muslim Army in the early 1990s and later to the KLA in Kosovo. From 1992 onwards the ethnically driven disintegration of Yugoslavia was a key juncture for the role of the U.N. as international policeman. (4)(5) Paul J. Watson's avid attention to the daily news reaped its reward on 7th October 2002 when he saved stories posted on the websites of several British newspapers. A Ministry of Defense D-notice gagging order was issued to stop the press covering the trial of former MI5 agent David Shayler who was charged with breaking the Official Secrets Act.
The gagging order came on the same day that the press reported that the government had pressured the judge in Shayler's trial to accept public interest immunity (PII) certificates requiring the press and the public to leave the court if sensitive security and intelligence issues were raised. By the evening of 7th October, the D-notice had forced the London Guardian to erase an article which originally stated:
Government officials and lawyers persuaded two cabinet ministers to sign the PII certificates after they learned that Mr Shayler intended to defend himself at the trial.(6)
However the Evening Standards' article containing some of Shayler's allegations still remains on its website:
Shayler will be defending himself during the trial. He is expected to claim that British Secret Service agents paid up to £100,000 to Osama Bin Laden for an assassination attempt on Colonel Gadaffy in 1996.(7)
The CIA-Pakistan-Bin Laden connection with 9-11 is strongly indicated by the transfer of $100,000 to the lead hijacker Mohammad Atta by Director of Pakistani ISI General Mahmoud Ahmad a few months before the attack. The same Director was in Washington D.C. the week of the attack meeting with Colin Powell and the CIA Director George Tenet.(8)(9) Le Figaro newspaper reported that between 4th and 14th July 2001, Osama Bin Laden was treated for kidney infection at the the American hospital Dubai. He met with CIA station chief Larry Mitchell and gave him precise information regarding an imminent attack on the U.S. Although the CIA refuted the allegation, Le Figaro refused to retract it stating the French Secret Service were a reliable source for this story.(10) Direct evidence of U.S. Government protection of Al-Qaeda is the document 199I WF213589 leaked to the BBC by FBI agents. Bush signed this national security order instructing the FBI not to arrest members of Al -Qaeda.(11) Lawsuits have now been filed by FBI agents against the Government in connection with this matter.(12) Michael Meacher was the former Environment Minister in Tony Blair's Government. He wrote an article in for the Guardian newspaper in September 2003 suggesting that the U.S. Government had prior knowledge of the 9-11 attack and allowed it to go ahead to justify their plan drawn up a year earlier to occupy the Middle East. Mr Meacher detected a strong smell of 'problem-reaction-solution' in the air:
First, it is clear the US authorities did little or nothing to pre-empt the events of 9/11. It is known that at least 11 countries provided advance warning to the US of the 9/11 attacks. Two senior Mossad experts were sent to Washington in August 2001 to alert the CIA and FBI to a cell of 200 terrorists said to be preparing a big operation (Daily Telegraph, September 16 2001). The list they provided included the names of four of the 9/11 hijackers, none of whom was arrested.
He, like many others, asked the question why when the first hijacking was suspected at 8.20am not a single fighter plane was scrambled to investigate from the US Andrews airforce base, just 10 miles from Washington DC, until after the third plane had hit the Pentagon at 9.38 am. There were standard FAA intercept procedures for hijacked aircraft. Between September 2000 and June 2001 the U.S. military launched fighter aircraft on 67 occasions to chase suspicious aircraft. It is a U.S. legal requirement that once an aircraft has moved significantly off its flight plan, fighter planes are sent up to investigate. It appears that U.S. air defense was deliberately stood down on the morning of 9/11. (13) Mr Meacher concluded his article by pointing out the shortage of hydrocarbon fuel in the coming decades and the need to take preemptive action to secure new supplies. Whilst the loss of the World Trade Center was measured in billions the oil and gas reserves of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan are estimated to be more than $3 trillion. Iraq has the second largest oil reserves in the world after Saudi Arabia. In 1997, the Taleban were meeting with representatives of Unocal to negotiate a pipeline deal for central Asia.
However by February 1998, Unocal was petitioning Congress for a stable secular Afghan government due to the failure of these negotiations.(14) Pakistan, Afghanistan and Turkmenistan signed an agreement for a $3.2 billion pipeline deal on 28 December 2002.(15) The BBC reported that Niaz Niak, a former Pakistan foreign secretary, was told by senior American officials at a meeting in Berlin in July 2001, that military action against Afghanistan would go ahead by the middle of October. It also reported that before 9/11, U.S. Special Forces were massing on the border with Tajikistan preparing for full scale invasion.(16) But how did the military-industrial complex pull off the events of 9/11? There is some confusion over who the hijackers actually were. Four of the five named hijackers supposedly on flight 11 which hit the north tower have since turned up alive and well denying they had anything to do with the attack.(17) Northrop Grumman's RQ-4A Global Hawk is a remote control reconnaissance aircraft developed for the U.S Airforce. The U.S. Airforce Technology website reads: In April 2001, Global Hawk made aviation history when it completed the first non-stop flight across the Pacific Ocean by an unmanned, powered aircraft, flying from Edwards AFB, California, to the Royal Australian Air Force Base, Edinburgh, South Australia.(18) The military technology for flying planes into buildings by remote control existed on 9/11. Original mainstream media footage and witness testimony supporting this possibility can be be found at www.letsroll911.org and www.inplanesight.com.
9.2 PROLIFERATING WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION As suggested in the previous chapter, the War on Terror is designed to take the world to the brink of World War III, as the necessary crisis (problem) to precipitate the dawn of global government (reaction-solution). This is why the elite have been proliferating weapons of mass destruction since the 1980s. The U.S. supported Saddam in the Iran/Iraq war between 1980 and1988. However, turning Saddam Hussein into a credible threat to the West required a helping hand from Uncle Sam. Donald Rumsfeld the U.S. Defense Secretary met Saddam in 1983 to ease the way for U.S. companies to sell Baghdad biological and chemical weapons components.(19) In 1994, the Clinton administration initiated the 'Agreed Framework' with North Korea, committing millions of dollars in aid for its nuclear programme, allegedly for electricity generation. In year 2000, Clinton authorized Donald Rumsfeld's company ABB Inc. to build two lightwater nuclear reactors in North Korea. In January 2003, George Bush sought $3.5 million of taxpayers money for the same nuclear programme.(20) The U.S. Government claims that lightwater reactors cannot be used for nuclear weapons production, even though the Congressional North Korea Advisory Group concluded in 1999 that, If the 1994 Agreed Framework is implemented and two LWRs are eventually built and operated in North Korea, the reactors could produce close to 500 kilograms of plutonium in spent reactor fuel each year; enough for nearly 100 bombs annually if North Korea decides to break its obligations and reprocess the material.(21) Given that Kim Jong-Il is a brutal dictator who has starved millions of his own people to death, the U.S. Government is building the best enemy money can buy. The result will be an escalation of the 'War on Terror'. In 1996, President Clinton changed the law and allowed advanced U.S. computer technology to be sold to foreign military users. The super-computers sold to China and Russia were designed for nuclear bomb development, advanced aircraft design, anti-submarine warfare sensor development, and radar applications. These super-computers can run American nuclear bomb design software and codes with little or no modification. They are identical to the computers at U.S. weapons labs right down to the vendor support.(22)(23) We can only prevent further massive terror attacks and a global conflagration by exposing the cartel behind the curtain that is behind it all. Senator Gary Hart said at a Council on Foreign Relations conference held the day after 9/11:
There is a chance for the President of the United States to use this disaster to carry out what his father - a phrase his father used I think only once, and it hasn't been used since - and that is a new world order.(24)
Chapter 9 End Notes
David Ruppe, Friendly Fire, Book: U.S. Military Drafted Plans to Terrorize U.S. Cities to Provoke War With Cuba, abcNEWS.com, 7 Nov. 2001. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/us_military_drafted_plans_to_terrorize_us_cities and http://www.propagandamatrix.com/archiveprior_knowledge#northwoods Richard Sale, Analysis: Hamas history tied to Israel, United Press International, 18 Jun. 2002. See http://www.upi.com/print.cfm?StoryID=18062002-051845-8272r Judicial Watch, Bush Sr. in Business with Bin Laden Family Conglomerate through Carlyle Group, 28 Sept. 2001. See http://propagandamatrix.com/bush_senior_in_business_with_bin_laden.html Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics, University of Ottawa, Who Is Osama Bin Laden?. See http://globalresearch.ca/articles/CHO109C.html CIA worked in tandem with Pakistan to create Taliban, Times of India, 7 March 2001. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/cia_tandem_create_taliban.html Patrick McGowan, Calls for secret Shayler trial, Evening Standard, London, 7 Oct. 2002. See http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/news/articles/1488303 Richard Norton-Taylor, Ministers Issue Gag Orders for MI5 Trial, The Guardian, London, 7 Oct. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/ministers_issue_gag_orders_for_mI5_trial.htm Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics, University of Ottawa, The Role of Pakistan's Military Intelligence (ISI) in the September 11 Attacks, 2 Nov. 2001. See http://globalresearch.ca/articles/CHO111A.html Manoj Joshi, India helped FBI trace ISI-terrorist links, The Times of India, Delhi, 9 Oct.2001. See http://www.timesofindia.com/articleshow.asp?catkey=-2128936835&art_id=1454238160&sType=1) Toby Rose, CIA agent 'met Bin Laden in July', Evening Standard, London, 31 Oct. 2001. See http://propagandamatrix.com/cia_agent_met_bin_laden_in_july.html Greg Palast and David Pallister, FBI claims Bin Laden inquiry was frustrated Officials told to 'back off' on Saudis before September 11, The Guardian, London, Nov.2001. See http://www.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4293682,00.html Judicial Watch, Active FBI Special Agent files Complaint Concerning Obstructed FBI Anti-Terrorist Investigations, 14 Nov. 2001. See http://www.judicialwatch.org/archive/2001/printer_1075.shtml Michael Meacher, This war on terrorism is bogus, The Guardian, London, 6 Sept. 2003 See http://politics.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,9115,1036688,00.html Julio Godoy, US policy on Taliban influenced by oil, Asia Times, 20 Nov. 2001. See http://www.atimes.com/c-asia/CK20Ag01.html Agreement On US 3.2 Billion Gas Pipeline Project Signed, PakNews.com, 28 Dec.2002. See http://www.truthout.org/docs_02/12.30A.afgh.pipe.htm U.S. 'Planned Attack on Taliban', BBC, 18 Sept. 2001. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1550366.stm Paul J. Watson, Order Out of Chaos: Elite Sponsored Terrorism and the New World Order, Alex Jones Productions, 2003, p.160 Global hawk high endurance unmanned reconnaissance aircraft, USA, AirforceTechnology, Website for the Defense Industry. See http://www.airforce-technology.com/projects/global/ Tim Reid, How US helped Iraq build deadly arsenal, The Times, London, 31 Dec.2002. See http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,3-528574,00.html Bush Seeks $3.5 Million for Group Building N. Korean Reactors, Bloomberg, 17 Jan. 2003. See http://www.prisonplanet.com/011703nkorea.html Clinton Deal Gave N. Korea 100-Nuke-Per-Year Capacity, Newsmax, 19 Oct. 2002. See http://www.prisonplanet.com/101902nkorea.html Charles Smith, Brokering our own demise, WorldNetDaily, 30 Nov. 1999. See http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=20542 Charles Smith, China and covert nuclear commerce, WorldNetDaily, 11 May 1999. See http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=20512 Alex Jones Show Interview of Greg Palast, Infowars.com, 5 April 2002. See http://www.gregpalast.com/detail.cfm?artid=144&row=1
David Ruppe, Friendly Fire, Book: U.S. Military Drafted Plans to Terrorize U.S. Cities to Provoke War With Cuba, abcNEWS.com, 7 Nov. 2001. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/us_military_drafted_plans_to_terrorize_us_cities and http://www.propagandamatrix.com/archiveprior_knowledge#northwoods
Richard Sale, Analysis: Hamas history tied to Israel, United Press International, 18 Jun. 2002. See http://www.upi.com/print.cfm?StoryID=18062002-051845-8272r
Judicial Watch, Bush Sr. in Business with Bin Laden Family Conglomerate through Carlyle Group, 28 Sept. 2001. See http://propagandamatrix.com/bush_senior_in_business_with_bin_laden.html
Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics, University of Ottawa, Who Is Osama Bin Laden?. See http://globalresearch.ca/articles/CHO109C.html
CIA worked in tandem with Pakistan to create Taliban, Times of India, 7 March 2001. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/cia_tandem_create_taliban.html
Patrick McGowan, Calls for secret Shayler trial, Evening Standard, London, 7 Oct. 2002. See http://www.thisislondon.co.uk/news/articles/1488303
Richard Norton-Taylor, Ministers Issue Gag Orders for MI5 Trial, The Guardian, London, 7 Oct. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/ministers_issue_gag_orders_for_mI5_trial.htm
Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics, University of Ottawa, The Role of Pakistan's Military Intelligence (ISI) in the September 11 Attacks, 2 Nov. 2001. See http://globalresearch.ca/articles/CHO111A.html
Manoj Joshi, India helped FBI trace ISI-terrorist links, The Times of India, Delhi, 9 Oct.2001. See http://www.timesofindia.com/articleshow.asp?catkey=-2128936835&art_id=1454238160&sType=1)
Toby Rose, CIA agent 'met Bin Laden in July', Evening Standard, London, 31 Oct. 2001. See http://propagandamatrix.com/cia_agent_met_bin_laden_in_july.html
Greg Palast and David Pallister, FBI claims Bin Laden inquiry was frustrated Officials told to 'back off' on Saudis before September 11, The Guardian, London, Nov.2001. See http://www.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4293682,00.html
Judicial Watch, Active FBI Special Agent files Complaint Concerning Obstructed FBI Anti-Terrorist Investigations, 14 Nov. 2001. See http://www.judicialwatch.org/archive/2001/printer_1075.shtml
Michael Meacher, This war on terrorism is bogus, The Guardian, London, 6 Sept. 2003 See http://politics.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,9115,1036688,00.html
Julio Godoy, US policy on Taliban influenced by oil, Asia Times, 20 Nov. 2001. See http://www.atimes.com/c-asia/CK20Ag01.html
Agreement On US 3.2 Billion Gas Pipeline Project Signed, PakNews.com, 28 Dec.2002. See http://www.truthout.org/docs_02/12.30A.afgh.pipe.htm
U.S. 'Planned Attack on Taliban', BBC, 18 Sept. 2001. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1550366.stm
Paul J. Watson, Order Out of Chaos: Elite Sponsored Terrorism and the New World Order, Alex Jones Productions, 2003, p.160
Global hawk high endurance unmanned reconnaissance aircraft, USA, AirforceTechnology, Website for the Defense Industry. See http://www.airforce-technology.com/projects/global/
Tim Reid, How US helped Iraq build deadly arsenal, The Times, London, 31 Dec.2002. See http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,3-528574,00.html
Bush Seeks $3.5 Million for Group Building N. Korean Reactors, Bloomberg, 17 Jan. 2003. See http://www.prisonplanet.com/011703nkorea.html
Clinton Deal Gave N. Korea 100-Nuke-Per-Year Capacity, Newsmax, 19 Oct. 2002. See http://www.prisonplanet.com/101902nkorea.html
Charles Smith, Brokering our own demise, WorldNetDaily, 30 Nov. 1999. See http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=20542
Charles Smith, China and covert nuclear commerce, WorldNetDaily, 11 May 1999. See http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=20512
Alex Jones Show Interview of Greg Palast, Infowars.com, 5 April 2002. See http://www.gregpalast.com/detail.cfm?artid=144&row=1
Back to Contents
Back to The 'War on Terror'
