# The United States of Europe - Germany and France Hatch a Plan to Create 
an E.U. Superstate

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_globalization_eu184.htm

by Michael Snyder June 27, 2016
from EndOfTheamericanDream Website
If you believe that the Brexit vote is going to kill the idea of a "United States of Europe", you might want to think again.
In fact, it appears that the decision by the British people to leave the European Union is only going to accelerate the process of creating an EU superstate.
As you will see below, one of the largest newspapers in the UK is reporting that the foreign ministers of France and Germany have drafted,
"a blueprint to effectively do away with individual member states".
So even though men like George Soros are warning that the eventual dissolution of the European Union is "practically irreversible" after the Brexit vote, the truth is that the globalists are not about to give up so easily.
For a very long time, advocates of increased European integration have dreamed of going all the way and creating a true "United States of Europe", but Britain was always one of the stumbling blocks that stood in the way.
But now that Britain is out and there is great fear that the entire European project may be in jeopardy, there seems to be a rush to go for broke and try to complete the job of European integration.
The Express is one of the biggest news organizations in the UK, and they are reporting that the foreign ministers of France and Germany already have a blueprint "to effectively do away with individual member states"
The foreign ministers of France and Germany are due to reveal a blueprint to effectively do away with individual member states in what is being described as an "ultimatum". Under the radical proposals EU countries will lose the right to have their own army, criminal law, taxation system or central bank, with all those powers being transferred to Brussels. Controversially member states would also lose what few controls they have left over their own borders, including the procedure for admitting and relocating refugees.
The foreign ministers of France and Germany are due to reveal a blueprint to effectively do away with individual member states in what is being described as an "ultimatum".
Under the radical proposals EU countries will lose the right to have their own army, criminal law, taxation system or central bank, with all those powers being transferred to Brussels.
Controversially member states would also lose what few controls they have left over their own borders, including the procedure for admitting and relocating refugees.
When I read that earlier today I was absolutely stunned.
Did they come up with this blueprint before the Brexit vote or after? And do they plan to allow the citizens of individual nations to vote on any of this?
Did they come up with this blueprint before the Brexit vote or after?
And do they plan to allow the citizens of individual nations to vote on any of this?
It is being reported that the following paragraph comes from the preamble to the document
"Our countries share a common destiny and a common set of values that give rise to an even closer union between our citizens. We will therefore strive for a political union in Europe and invite the next Europeans to participate in this venture."
Of course it would have been totally unrealistic to expect backers of European integration to go down without a fight.
After all, what did we expect them to do - throw up their hands and admit that the British people are right and that the European Union is a failure? No, that was never going to happen.
As I mentioned in other article that was published today, the elite are going to make the British people pay for what they have done.
The British pound has already been smashed, British stocks are getting pounded, and the UK economy is going to suffer greatly. In addition, the British people are being inundated by mainstream news stories telling them what a horrible mistake they made.
And as the crisis in Europe gets progressively worse, the "solution" that will be heralded by mainstream news organizations will be increased European integration.
In fact, this is something that CNN is already promoting
The elite are desperate to rescue a European project that is considered to be "dying" in the eyes of many.
For example, Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman just compared what is happening in Europe right now to the collapse of the Soviet Union
The upheaval in the U.K. after its Brexit referendum in favor of leaving the European Union has similarities to the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman. While it's, "unreasonable to draw direct parallels," it's obvious that the U.K. is going through a "turbulent, confusing and unpredictable period," Dmitry Peskov told reporters on a conference call Monday. Russia, "has gone through the collapse of the Soviet Union and many generations clearly remember the period of the Soviet collapse, that period of uncertainty."
The upheaval in the U.K. after its Brexit referendum in favor of leaving the European Union has similarities to the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, according to Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman.
While it's,
"unreasonable to draw direct parallels," it's obvious that the U.K. is going through a "turbulent, confusing and unpredictable period," Dmitry Peskov told reporters on a conference call Monday.
Russia,
"has gone through the collapse of the Soviet Union and many generations clearly remember the period of the Soviet collapse, that period of uncertainty."
So those that are in favor of European integration are in full damage control mode at this point.
Just today, there was a report in the Daily Mail about how German Chancellor Angela Merkel is telling people that it is vital to keep any other members of the European Union from leaving
Mrs. Merkel said the EU needs to stop other countries following Britain out of the door amid market fears that the bloc is 'no longer governable' after Brexit. The German Chancellor told her conservative party board in a conference call that it was necessary to prevent other European Union members going down the same path as Britain. Merkel is also said to have revealed that international financial markets are concerned the EU is 'no longer governable' in the wake of Britain's exit vote.
Mrs. Merkel said the EU needs to stop other countries following Britain out of the door amid market fears that the bloc is 'no longer governable' after Brexit.
The German Chancellor told her conservative party board in a conference call that it was necessary to prevent other European Union members going down the same path as Britain.
Merkel is also said to have revealed that international financial markets are concerned the EU is 'no longer governable' in the wake of Britain's exit vote.
The elitists that run the EU don't really care about the will of the people, and they will work very hard to prevent more referendums from being held.
In an age of "democracy", the EU is one of the most undemocratic political institutions in the entire western world. I know, because I studied EU law when I was in law school.
If you have any doubt about this, just check out this recent quote from European Parliament President Martin Schultz
If anyone needs another confirmation that the European Union is fundamentally the most anti-democratic entity currently in existence, then the following statement by European Parliament Martin Schultz should put all confusion to rest. Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate". Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the #EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate". #TBC https://t.co/z0mujO09eG TaleofTwoTreaties (@Taleof2Treaties) June 27, 2016 Confused: Here is what Deutsche Bank said earlier today: The shockwaves and consequences around Brexit will resonate for years. It's probably an understatement to say that most in financial markets regret the UK's decision to leave but we should respect the forces that have been pushing us towards what has always been an inevitable political accident sometime soon. I wasn't sure whether the Brexit vote was the one but I was pretty convinced one was coming and this is probably not the last. Spain yesterday started a general election cycle (more below but relatively market friendly) of the largest 5 euro-area economies (Spain, Holland, France, Germany and Italy) over the next 18 months or so, not forgetting the US this November. Throw in the crucial senate reform vote in Italy in October and you've got plenty of opportunity for rebellion against the establishment that haven't managed to produce satisfactory enough growth for the lower paid/lower skilled to offset the forces of globalization and immigration. It's worth looking at the voting split in the UK's EU referendum based on polls compiled by Lord Ashcroft to get an idea of the disenfranchisement. In terms of socio-economic groups, 57% of ABs (upper/middle class - professional/managers etc) voted remain, 49% of C1s (lower middle class - supervisory/clerical or junior management/administrative), 36% of C2s (skilled working class) and 36% of DEs (Ds - semi and unskilled manual workers. Es - casual/lowest grade worker or state pensioner). So there's no escaping the fact that this is a class war. Whether its globalization, immigration, inequality, poor economic growth or a combination of all of them it's quite clear from this and other anti-establishment movements that the status quo can't last in a democracy. Eventually you'll have a reaction. This is one such major reaction and given that the UK growth rate has been ok of late, it would be strange if pressure didn't continue to build elsewhere where growth has been lower for longer. It is indeed a class war, and the European "Union" is not used to losing... Source
If anyone needs another confirmation that the European Union is fundamentally the most anti-democratic entity currently in existence, then the following statement by European Parliament Martin Schultz should put all confusion to rest.
Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate". Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the #EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate". #TBC https://t.co/z0mujO09eG TaleofTwoTreaties (@Taleof2Treaties) June 27, 2016 Confused: Here is what Deutsche Bank said earlier today: The shockwaves and consequences around Brexit will resonate for years. It's probably an understatement to say that most in financial markets regret the UK's decision to leave but we should respect the forces that have been pushing us towards what has always been an inevitable political accident sometime soon. I wasn't sure whether the Brexit vote was the one but I was pretty convinced one was coming and this is probably not the last. Spain yesterday started a general election cycle (more below but relatively market friendly) of the largest 5 euro-area economies (Spain, Holland, France, Germany and Italy) over the next 18 months or so, not forgetting the US this November. Throw in the crucial senate reform vote in Italy in October and you've got plenty of opportunity for rebellion against the establishment that haven't managed to produce satisfactory enough growth for the lower paid/lower skilled to offset the forces of globalization and immigration. It's worth looking at the voting split in the UK's EU referendum based on polls compiled by Lord Ashcroft to get an idea of the disenfranchisement. In terms of socio-economic groups, 57% of ABs (upper/middle class - professional/managers etc) voted remain, 49% of C1s (lower middle class - supervisory/clerical or junior management/administrative), 36% of C2s (skilled working class) and 36% of DEs (Ds - semi and unskilled manual workers. Es - casual/lowest grade worker or state pensioner). So there's no escaping the fact that this is a class war. Whether its globalization, immigration, inequality, poor economic growth or a combination of all of them it's quite clear from this and other anti-establishment movements that the status quo can't last in a democracy. Eventually you'll have a reaction. This is one such major reaction and given that the UK growth rate has been ok of late, it would be strange if pressure didn't continue to build elsewhere where growth has been lower for longer.
Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate".
Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the #EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate". #TBC https://t.co/z0mujO09eG TaleofTwoTreaties (@Taleof2Treaties) June 27, 2016
Schulz: "The British have violated the rules. It is not the #EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate".
#TBC https://t.co/z0mujO09eG
TaleofTwoTreaties (@Taleof2Treaties) June 27, 2016
Confused: Here is what Deutsche Bank said earlier today:
The shockwaves and consequences around Brexit will resonate for years. It's probably an understatement to say that most in financial markets regret the UK's decision to leave but we should respect the forces that have been pushing us towards what has always been an inevitable political accident sometime soon. I wasn't sure whether the Brexit vote was the one but I was pretty convinced one was coming and this is probably not the last. Spain yesterday started a general election cycle (more below but relatively market friendly) of the largest 5 euro-area economies (Spain, Holland, France, Germany and Italy) over the next 18 months or so, not forgetting the US this November. Throw in the crucial senate reform vote in Italy in October and you've got plenty of opportunity for rebellion against the establishment that haven't managed to produce satisfactory enough growth for the lower paid/lower skilled to offset the forces of globalization and immigration. It's worth looking at the voting split in the UK's EU referendum based on polls compiled by Lord Ashcroft to get an idea of the disenfranchisement. In terms of socio-economic groups, 57% of ABs (upper/middle class - professional/managers etc) voted remain, 49% of C1s (lower middle class - supervisory/clerical or junior management/administrative), 36% of C2s (skilled working class) and 36% of DEs (Ds - semi and unskilled manual workers. Es - casual/lowest grade worker or state pensioner).
The shockwaves and consequences around Brexit will resonate for years.
It's probably an understatement to say that most in financial markets regret the UK's decision to leave but we should respect the forces that have been pushing us towards what has always been an inevitable political accident sometime soon.
I wasn't sure whether the Brexit vote was the one but I was pretty convinced one was coming and this is probably not the last.
Spain yesterday started a general election cycle (more below but relatively market friendly) of the largest 5 euro-area economies (Spain, Holland, France, Germany and Italy) over the next 18 months or so, not forgetting the US this November.
Throw in the crucial senate reform vote in Italy in October and you've got plenty of opportunity for rebellion against the establishment that haven't managed to produce satisfactory enough growth for the lower paid/lower skilled to offset the forces of globalization and immigration.
It's worth looking at the voting split in the UK's EU referendum based on polls compiled by Lord Ashcroft to get an idea of the disenfranchisement.
In terms of socio-economic groups, 57% of ABs (upper/middle class - professional/managers etc) voted remain, 49% of C1s (lower middle class - supervisory/clerical or junior management/administrative), 36% of C2s (skilled working class) and 36% of DEs (Ds - semi and unskilled manual workers. Es - casual/lowest grade worker or state pensioner).
So there's no escaping the fact that this is a class war.
Whether its globalization, immigration, inequality, poor economic growth or a combination of all of them it's quite clear from this and other anti-establishment movements that the status quo can't last in a democracy.
Eventually you'll have a reaction.
This is one such major reaction and given that the UK growth rate has been ok of late, it would be strange if pressure didn't continue to build elsewhere where growth has been lower for longer.
It is indeed a class war, and the European "Union" is not used to losing...
Source
Say what?
In the short-term, it is entirely possible that we could see more nations leave the EU. I would watch Greece in particular.
But in the long-term, we will see a major push for more European integration. Germany and France will be at the core of this movement, and other European nations will join them.
The British people may not participate any time soon, but the dream of a United States of Europe is far from dead.
And if the advocates of increased European integration have their way, we will be seeing their dream become a reality sooner rather than later.
E.U. Unmasked
- After Brexit, Plans for Full EU Superstate Revealed - by James Corbett June 30 2016
from TheInternationalForecaster Website
I've been warning over and over for years now
that the crisis in the Eurozone
was going to be used as a way for the banksters
to fail forward by claiming that the ECB needs
even more powers to wreck Europe's economy.
Well, that didn't take long...
The graphite was hardly dry on the Brexit ballots when TVP Info, a Polish broadcaster, leaked a 9-page document drawn up by the German and French foreign ministers calling for an EU superstate complete with,
an EU army integrated border controls common taxation
an EU army
integrated border controls
common taxation
The German foreign minister discussed the plans - which are being described as "an ultimatum" - with his counterparts in the Visegrad Group of countries (Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia) this week.
The document, bearing the Orwellian title of "A Strong Europe in a World of Uncertainties," lays out the exact tyrannical plans that the EU's critics have been warning about for years.
After identifying key areas of uncertainty and concern affecting Europe - from spreading (false flag) terrorism to (manipulated) cultural tensions to (engineered) economic hardships - the document proposes three new areas for expanded EU cooperation:
Full PDF here
A European Security Compact, including an expansion of internal "security" through a strengthened Europol, and expansion of external "security" in areas like North Africa and the Middle East through coordination with the African Union, G5 and other globalist counterparts. A Common European asylum and migration policy, including the expansion of FRONTEX with permanent, dedicated EU-supplied staff, and the creation of a European Asylum Agency tasked with standardizing the registration of asylum seekers and hosting joint EU-controlled databases. A Completed Economic and Monetary Union, including "convergence between member states" in strategic sectors of the economy, the development of a European Monetary Fund presided over by EU parliament, and continued moves toward "common taxation."
A European Security Compact, including an expansion of internal "security" through a strengthened Europol, and expansion of external "security" in areas like North Africa and the Middle East through coordination with the African Union, G5 and other globalist counterparts.
A Common European asylum and migration policy, including the expansion of FRONTEX with permanent, dedicated EU-supplied staff, and the creation of a European Asylum Agency tasked with standardizing the registration of asylum seekers and hosting joint EU-controlled databases.
A Completed Economic and Monetary Union, including "convergence between member states" in strategic sectors of the economy, the development of a European Monetary Fund presided over by EU parliament, and continued moves toward "common taxation."
Even more stunningly, the paper actually proposes a standing EU-directed military chain of command, up to and including standing European armed forces:
"The EU will need to take action more often in order to manage crises that directly affect its own security. We therefore need stronger and more flexible crisis prevention and crisis management capabilities. The EU should be able to plan and conduct civil and military operations more effectively, with the support of a permanent civil-military chain of command. The EU should be able to rely on employable high-readiness forces and provide common financing for its operations. Within the framework of the EU, member states willing to establish permanent structured cooperation in the field of defense or to push ahead to launch operations should be able to do so in a flexible manner. If needed, EU member states should consider establishing standing maritime forces or acquiring EU-owned capabilities in other key areas."
"The EU will need to take action more often in order to manage crises that directly affect its own security.
We therefore need stronger and more flexible crisis prevention and crisis management capabilities. The EU should be able to plan and conduct civil and military operations more effectively, with the support of a permanent civil-military chain of command.
The EU should be able to rely on employable high-readiness forces and provide common financing for its operations.
Within the framework of the EU, member states willing to establish permanent structured cooperation in the field of defense or to push ahead to launch operations should be able to do so in a flexible manner.
If needed, EU member states should consider establishing standing maritime forces or acquiring EU-owned capabilities in other key areas."
Of course absolutely none of this will come as news to my long time readers.
I laid out in these very pages how last December's proposal for a European Border and Coast Guard was the first step to the EU superstate. And I also told you how last November's Paris false flag paved the way for EU President Juncker to call for an EU standing army.
And I've been warning over and over for years now that the crisis in the Eurozone was going to be used as a way for the banksters to fail forward by claiming that the ECB needs even more powers to wreck Europe's economy.
So none of these proposals are that shocking individually.
What is shocking is to see them stacked together like this in a single document penned by Jean-Marc Ayrault and Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign ministers of Germany and France.
It is also shocking that they would be presented as a type of ultimatum to the Visegrad Group, especially since "the EU" (which even the New York Times can now admit means Berlin, not Brussels) has chided these countries quite openly in recent months.
Germany and its sidekick France (politely referred to as "the EU") cannot expect that this attempt at strong-arming will go down well with countries that have openly bucked and brayed at the EU yoke thus far.
Which can only mean that they don't expect it to...
You see, the 3D chess players of the New World Order are smashing the chessboard right now.
This is the only way for them to achieve their goals in the long run. But in order to do this, they have to let their mask slip. The EU is acting like the would-be empire that it is.
This leads us to one of only two conclusions:
The globalists are dumb enough to believe that they can consolidate their power now and achieve the EU superstate... They are deliberately setting the EU up for the inevitable populist backlash and chaos...
The globalists are dumb enough to believe that they can consolidate their power now and achieve the EU superstate...
They are deliberately setting the EU up for the inevitable populist backlash and chaos...
Return to Globalization and The European Union
