# The Holocaust and Genocide

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_holocaust09.htm

Contents
Part 1
The Nazi persecutors' inadvertent
rejuvenation of Jewish identity; early Israeli shame of Holocaust
survivors, and today's heroizing of them; creation of the secular
Holocaust theology in the 1960s; Israel's "redemptive" 1967 victory
over the Arabs as a milestone in Jewish Holocaust cosmology; the
Holocaust and Israel as cores of modern Jewish identity; German
fascism's Master Race ideology as an echo of Jewry's Chosen People
claim; precedents for Nazi-inspired genocide (and other racist
policies) in original Jewish teachings; the reification of such
material in some Jewish quarters today; Holocaust-centeredness
throughout the western mass media; Jewish religious tenets and
anti-Black racism; the importance of the symbol of Amalek in Jewish
tradition, the injunction that he should be eternally hated, and the
continuous call for his extermination; the Holocaust in the
forgotten context of World War II; Nazi intention to exterminate
Jews, Gypsies, Slavs, and others; the undercurrent of Chosen People
racism in the idea that murdered Jews are more important than anyone
else murdered; modern Jewish defamation of Poles, Lithuanians,
Ukrainians, Russians and other Eastern Europeans; Jewish
exclusionism and separatism in pre-World War II Eastern Europe; the
lack of Jewish resistance to the Nazis; Jewish collaborators with
German fascists; Jewish domination of postwar communist secret
police organizations and concentration camps; Jewish double
standards for World War II era history: one standard for Jews, and
another for non-Jews; mainstream Jewry's resistance to the facts of
World War II-era history.
Part 2
Jewish and western world obsession
with the Holocaust; Jewish insistence that the "Holocaust was
unique"; Holocaust uniqueness as part of the traditional Chosen
People concept; the importance of Jewish Old Testament-sanctioned
genocide in understanding the Holocaust; the invention of the Jewish
dead as heroes and martyrs for the Jewish cause; the proliferation
of worldwide Holocaust museums as Judeo-centric and Israeli
propaganda posts; the usurping of distinctly American patriotic
sites beneath the Jewish martyrological flag; the Holocaust as Big
Business; the proliferation of Judeocentric Holocaust classes in
American schools; international Jewish aspects of the world
Holocaust history scene; the Auschwitz convent controversy; popular
mass media renditions of the Holocaust: Shoah, Maus, Schindler's
List; the trial of John Demjanjuk, accused mass murderer.
