# The Prince of Darkness Meets His World Elite

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalelite198.htm

by V. Susan Ferguson August 2013
from MetaphysicalMusing Website
Spanish version
This story is
a science fiction 'fable'
written in 1997
In the Kali Yuga the Darkside rules and the Light is veiled, hidden, submerged. Blinded by greed, the actions of the ignorant, the deluded, and the foolish bring about the inevitable dissolution of the world - so that the next four cycles of time may begin. The existence of a polarity universe requires light and darkness, good and evil, truth and falsehood. The Darkside is playing its part. You might say it is their job, their dharma. Some do it very well - and here is the story of one
In the Kali Yuga the Darkside rules and the Light is veiled, hidden, submerged.
Blinded by greed, the actions of the ignorant, the deluded, and the foolish bring about the inevitable dissolution of the world - so that the next four cycles of time may begin.
The existence of a polarity universe requires light and darkness, good and evil, truth and falsehood.
The Darkside is playing its part.
You might say it is their job, their dharma.
Some do it very well - and here is the story of one
Appropriating Planet Earth Hovering over the city, the Prince of Darkness sat in his black helicopter.
He glanced at his Italian shoes and noticing a scuffmark, summoned one of his servant girls. A beautiful Oriental child approached him on her knees and, her eyes cast down, began to polish the rich dark leather on his $1000 shoes.
He looked out the helicopter window, thinking how he enjoyed these yearly meetings with the elite technocrat managers he had created.
These men were the top executives in their fields. For him, the term executive had a particularly delicious connotation, meaning he allowed them to execute his will. These men all had the same characteristics in common:
They each were consumed by personal ambition and their intelligence was infected with an imbalance that could be skewed to his demands. Each of these disposable corporate giants was trained to focus on implementing efficient managerial solutions that did not reflect simple human needs. Individualism, imagination, and creativity were sacrificed at the altar of profit, statistics, and the oh-so-holy bottom line. Each of these harbored deep insecurities that allowed them to ignore any pesky nagging conscience. Their fears of insignificance left them dysfunctional and easily manipulated. Genetic alteration had left the human species vulnerable to mind control and the Prince of Darkness was most certainly a master of mind control.
They each were consumed by personal ambition and their intelligence was infected with an imbalance that could be skewed to his demands.
Each of these disposable corporate giants was trained to focus on implementing efficient managerial solutions that did not reflect simple human needs. Individualism, imagination, and creativity were sacrificed at the altar of profit, statistics, and the oh-so-holy bottom line.
Each of these harbored deep insecurities that allowed them to ignore any pesky nagging conscience. Their fears of insignificance left them dysfunctional and easily manipulated.
Genetic alteration had left the human species vulnerable to mind control and the Prince of Darkness was most certainly a master of mind control.
The helicopter landed on the top of a skyscraper and he was escorted to a private elevator that took him to a meeting room where his technocrats awaited him.
The room was mahogany and glass with views of the vast polluted city spreading out beneath them.
Democracy is slipping away The people on planet Earth had not experienced true liberty in a long time.
The last remnants of their beloved democracy were slipping away from them, just as planned. A servant offered him the central chair and the attending executive technocrats sat down in their respective places. In their everyday lives these men controlled vast empires of industry, communications, finance, and world trade.
But in his presence, they became the clay every tyrant is made of. They became vulnerable dysfunctional children, and their weaknesses amused him. Each powerful executive wore the almost identical dark suit, the tailoring of which gave the appearance of extreme wealth, but the uniform-like similarity of all the suits robbed a man of his individuality.
There was no freedom of expression; even their ties were similar. Each face had the same look of aggression, power, and emptiness.
The men were not loved; in fact, they had come to prefer fear to love and prostitutes to their wives.
The "Mix" - mixing truth with lies The Prince of Darkness first addressed the head of propaganda, as this was truly his favorite endeavor.
The infamous "Mix", the process of mixing truth with lies, or even more challenging, simply passing total boldface lies off as truth was endlessly titillating to him. The gullible humans generally were easy to fool especially after the invention of television and mass communications.
Television had the added convenience of being hypnotic by the very nature of its technology requiring only the addition of endless repetition to make even the most intelligent and curious human being passive, numb, and unconscious.
In a state of perpetual trance, the willing audiences had even taken to calling themselves couch potatoes, a term he enjoyed.
The bewildered herd
"Stewart," he addressed his propaganda minister, "how are things going in the domain of engineering consent?" "Oh, Sir!" Stewart Bernays replied, "We are moving forward in a most efficient manner. There are now thousands of lawyers and lobbyists living in the Washington D.C. area manipulating elected officials to pass laws in favor of corporations and the One World Order. These men and women consider themselves to be the elite of the world and their narcissism of superiority leaves them pliable to our will. They enjoy the arts influence peddling, making sure the will of the common people has been silenced. "The bewildered herd of individual voters is convinced that participation in their democratic elections is virtually useless. Thanks to our massive and pervasive lobbying techniques, they are correct in considering themselves rendered ineffective. We have succeeded in accessing taxpayer dollars to fund our lobbying along with the corporate profits that also come from consumers and lucrative corporate tax benefits. Corporations pay a fraction of all the taxes in the country!"
"Stewart," he addressed his propaganda minister, "how are things going in the domain of engineering consent?" "Oh, Sir!" Stewart Bernays replied, "We are moving forward in a most efficient manner. There are now thousands of lawyers and lobbyists living in the Washington D.C. area manipulating elected officials to pass laws in favor of corporations and the One World Order.
These men and women consider themselves to be the elite of the world and their narcissism of superiority leaves them pliable to our will. They enjoy the arts influence peddling, making sure the will of the common people has been silenced. "The bewildered herd of individual voters is convinced that participation in their democratic elections is virtually useless. Thanks to our massive and pervasive lobbying techniques, they are correct in considering themselves rendered ineffective.
We have succeeded in accessing taxpayer dollars to fund our lobbying along with the corporate profits that also come from consumers and lucrative corporate tax benefits.
Corporations pay a fraction of all the taxes in the country!"
They do not think for themselves
"Excellent! And are the public relations firms succeeding?" The Prince of Darkness asked. "Splendidly, Sir! We are moving into a 96% influence range. The population at large imagines that the programming they watch on their televisions is independent reporting, when in fact most of what they see is totally produced by our public relations firms to teach them how to think. Of course they cannot think for themselves. There have been a few pathetic attempts by the maverick fringe to educate the viewer that they are being manipulated; but as usual, the masses are so passively hypnotized that they ignore any warnings." "Excellent," said the evil prince. "And you, Atherton Spleek, how goes it with you?"
"Excellent! And are the public relations firms succeeding?" The Prince of Darkness asked. "Splendidly, Sir! We are moving into a 96% influence range. The population at large imagines that the programming they watch on their televisions is independent reporting, when in fact most of what they see is totally produced by our public relations firms to teach them how to think.
Of course they cannot think for themselves.
There have been a few pathetic attempts by the maverick fringe to educate the viewer that they are being manipulated; but as usual, the masses are so passively hypnotized that they ignore any warnings." "Excellent," said the evil prince.
"And you, Atherton Spleek, how goes it with you?"
The tentacles of the conglomerates
"Sir, everything is going quite well."
Atherton was terrified of his master.
His voice began to tremble and he mumbled,
"There are now very few major corporate conglomerates controlling almost all the major information services on the planet. The small independent newspapers and book publishers are being squeezed out of existence and their voices go unheard. Journalistic integrity has been reduced to profit. Sensible common sense queries into the nature of life and political dialogues have been replaced by talk-show propagandists, who broadcast sensationalistic scandals and trials, that dull the mind and the basic need to engage in questioning and doubt. "Practically no one reads anymore and if they do, they do not read literature or history. With no knowledge of the past, they have no memory with which to compare their current state. The dream of individual freedoms and of all men being created equal will soon die. Many young people do not know any past history or even the names of their elected officials."
"There are now very few major corporate conglomerates controlling almost all the major information services on the planet.
The small independent newspapers and book publishers are being squeezed out of existence and their voices go unheard. Journalistic integrity has been reduced to profit.
Sensible common sense queries into the nature of life and political dialogues have been replaced by talk-show propagandists, who broadcast sensationalistic scandals and trials, that dull the mind and the basic need to engage in questioning and doubt. "Practically no one reads anymore and if they do, they do not read literature or history. With no knowledge of the past, they have no memory with which to compare their current state. The dream of individual freedoms and of all men being created equal will soon die.
Many young people do not know any past history or even the names of their elected officials."
The Prince of Darkness was pleased and turned to the minister of chemical engineering and food production, A.D. Lowland.
Short-term memory loss
"So A.D., how goes it with your administration?" "Our plans are moving forward in a timely and effective manner, Sir," A.D. Lowland replied. "The food now contains massive amounts of chemicals, hormones, and antibiotics. We believe that we are succeeding in aggravating short-term memory loss, which will make the humans ever more accepting of control. Some of the chemicals are affecting the endocrine system and will help curtail the burgeoning population within this generation. Their water is slowly poisoning them and their homes are made with building materials that continually weaken their immune systems. "Around the world all countries are rushing to duplicate the toxic follies of the West. Even if the protests in Europe and America were listened to, they could not stop China, Indonesia, and others. "Further more we have been successful in altering the molecules of banned chemicals so that we may continue selling a similar variety of pesticides and fertilizers which had been banned as toxic. This is very cost effective. We also shipped banned chemicals to other countries; they apply them to the fruits and vegetables they grow, and ship them back into the USA. Our armies of lawyers, propagandists, paid-for-scientists, and public relations geniuses are masterfully convincing the public that the environmentalists are totally wrong and that global warming is unscientific foolishness."
"So A.D., how goes it with your administration?" "Our plans are moving forward in a timely and effective manner, Sir," A.D. Lowland replied.
"The food now contains massive amounts of chemicals, hormones, and antibiotics. We believe that we are succeeding in aggravating short-term memory loss, which will make the humans ever more accepting of control. Some of the chemicals are affecting the endocrine system and will help curtail the burgeoning population within this generation.
Their water is slowly poisoning them and their homes are made with building materials that continually weaken their immune systems. "Around the world all countries are rushing to duplicate the toxic follies of the West. Even if the protests in Europe and America were listened to, they could not stop China, Indonesia, and others. "Further more we have been successful in altering the molecules of banned chemicals so that we may continue selling a similar variety of pesticides and fertilizers which had been banned as toxic. This is very cost effective.
We also shipped banned chemicals to other countries; they apply them to the fruits and vegetables they grow, and ship them back into the USA.
Our armies of lawyers, propagandists, paid-for-scientists, and public relations geniuses are masterfully convincing the public that the environmentalists are totally wrong and that global warming is unscientific foolishness."
Who gets planet Earth after 'the winds'?
"No one will realize until it is too late that the Earth is in an uncontrollable spiral toward destruction. No one will realize until 'the winds' begin their destruction in earnest, that they have exchanged their lives in a delicate ecosystem for consumer goods and shopping malls. No one will know that they have given the Inter-Galactic Council all the evidence it needs to prove once and for all that the human race is incapable of the guardianship of the small green planet Earth."
"No one will realize until it is too late that the Earth is in an uncontrollable spiral toward destruction.
No one will realize until 'the winds' begin their destruction in earnest, that they have exchanged their lives in a delicate ecosystem for consumer goods and shopping malls.
No one will know that they have given the Inter-Galactic Council all the evidence it needs to prove once and for all that the human race is incapable of the guardianship of the small green planet Earth."
The Prince of Darkness took a deep breath of satisfaction and turned to his financial and economic engineer, Milton Galbraith.
"And how are the mergers proceeding?" he asked.
Individual thinkers becoming extinct Milton had a large pile of papers in front of him covered with systems analyses statistics which, however viewed, could be shown to prove that his economic engineering technologies and managerial skills were consummately productive.
He fervently desired to go over all the relevant statistics with his master - but noting the already bored glare coming toward him, Milton Galbraith wisely chose a shorter reply.
"Sir, a massive network of corporate tentacles encircles the globe. Individual thinkers are becoming extinct. Local governments cannot compete with corporate agendas and can barely control their own lands or destiny. In the One World Order they will not exist. The world is ours! "There is an ever increasing gap between the rich and the poor. The middle class, with its habits of democracy, is being destroyed. Tension between the classes is increasing daily. The rich are so consumed with their right to enjoy the profits of their greed, they refuse to believe that more and more people, even children, are becoming homeless, destitute, and hungry. "The banks are being merged worldwide. International loans, financial trading frenzies, and the inter-dependencies of corporate hierarchies have inextricably woven the planet together. The stage is set for a world economic crash that will allow us to create the One World Order we desire, to eliminate all currencies and initiate the world debit card. Nations will be replaced by feudalistic corporate states. No individual private enterprise will be allowed to exist. Everyone will be enslaved to corporate employment and will be paid digitally. Ever increasing taxes will be automatically taken from their salaries."
"Sir, a massive network of corporate tentacles encircles the globe. Individual thinkers are becoming extinct.
Local governments cannot compete with corporate agendas and can barely control their own lands or destiny. In the One World Order they will not exist.
The world is ours! "There is an ever increasing gap between the rich and the poor. The middle class, with its habits of democracy, is being destroyed. Tension between the classes is increasing daily.
The rich are so consumed with their right to enjoy the profits of their greed, they refuse to believe that more and more people, even children, are becoming homeless, destitute, and hungry. "The banks are being merged worldwide. International loans, financial trading frenzies, and the inter-dependencies of corporate hierarchies have inextricably woven the planet together.
The stage is set for a world economic crash that will allow us to create the One World Order we desire, to eliminate all currencies and initiate the world debit card. Nations will be replaced by feudalistic corporate states.
No individual private enterprise will be allowed to exist. Everyone will be enslaved to corporate employment and will be paid digitally.
Ever increasing taxes will be automatically taken from their salaries."
Mind Altering Drugs for Slaves of the Corporatist States
"Those who have trouble adjusting to the One World Order of the Corporatist States will be given mind-shaping drugs, or be subjected to the other forms of mind control we have successfully developed that render such losers permanently passive. They will accept what we - the social engineers, managers, and statisticians - have proven in our flow charts to be what is best for them. The world is ours!"
"Those who have trouble adjusting to the One World Order of the Corporatist States will be given mind-shaping drugs, or be subjected to the other forms of mind control we have successfully developed that render such losers permanently passive.
They will accept what we - the social engineers, managers, and statisticians - have proven in our flow charts to be what is best for them.
The world is ours!"
Milton Galbraith's hands began to tremble as the thought of so much power coursed through his flabby gray body.
Sweat formed on his cruelly thin upper lip and a strange smile worked its way over his face enhancing his beady eyes. Shuffling the papers in front of him in a meaningless way, he began to laugh uncontrollably.
"Shut up, you imbecilic fool!" the Prince of Darkness coldly commanded. "Now all of you, place your hands upon the table."
On the table in front of each executive technocrat was placed a strange metallic plate that all of the men were painfully familiar with. Each squirmed in his chair apprehensive of the inevitable excruciating agonizing jolt they would willingly submit to.
It was true however that some of these men had grown to enjoy such pain.
"Place your fingers on the plates!" their master shrieked.
They did so and a burning, piercing, unbearable amount of electrical voltage passed through their bodies shocking them into obedience and forgetfulness.
Thus they were 'programmed in fear and pain,' and 'rewarded in power and wealth,' the age-old recipe for tyranny.
The Prince of Darkness left them in their shock - dazed and docile...
Return to The Global Elite - The Transnational Capitalist Class
Return to Ponerology - The Science of Evil
