# The Worship of Lucifer, SATAN

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_brotherhoodss01a.htm

Rituals of Freemasonry
The Worship of Lucifer, SATAN Part 1 of 5
From the Analogy ("The Matrix") page you learned that certain Masonic authors praise Lucifer. And it doesnt stop there. It extends to their symbolism as well. It is important to STRESS that not all Masons worship Lucifer, only the top 5% do.
A majority of this page on Freemasonry was taken from Masonic books that were published by Masonic Publishing Companies. Most of these writings were kept secret. Many people still do not understand the importance of studying this subject to its logical conclusion. Their spiritual freedom is at stake. Remember two things about Masonry:
1) Superior Masons deliberately lie to their fellow Masons, as those Masons "deserve to be mislead" 2) Explanations given to 95% of all Masons are wrong
1) Superior Masons deliberately lie to their fellow Masons, as those Masons "deserve to be mislead"
2) Explanations given to 95% of all Masons are wrong
This quote from Masonic author, Carl Claudy sums it all up:
"Cut through the outer shell and find a meaning; cut through that meaning and find another; under it, if you dig deep enough, you may find a third, a fourth - who shall say how many teachings?"
Many who are in Masonry are not aware that they are lied to.
Finally, remember Albert Pikes bold assertion in Morals & Dogma, that "Masonry is identical to the ancient Mysteries" [p. 624, teachings of the 28th Degree] Of course these top 5% call Jesus Christ an "inferior god," they never, ever mention Him in their teachings or their rituals. This shouldnt surprise you since the Pope carries a bent Satanic cross as seen on another page which shames Christ on the cross. Freemasons used Luciferic symbols within the layout of government center Washington D.C. Freemasons worship Lucifer, the Light-Bearer. Lucifer and Satan are biblically the same individual, Freemasonry is really the worship of Satan. By quoting their own sources and depicting the symbols in which they use, this claim is proven.
LUCIFER PRAISED AS THE LIGHT-BEARER OF FREEMASONRY
"Lucifer, the Light-bearer! Strange and mysterious name to give to the Spirit of Darkness! Lucifer, the Son of the Morning! Is it he who bears the Light, and with its splendors intolerable, blinds feeble, sensual, or selfish souls? Doubt it not!" [Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry]
"Lucifer, the Light-bearer! Strange and mysterious name to give to the Spirit of Darkness! Lucifer, the Son of the Morning! Is it he who bears the Light, and with its splendors intolerable, blinds feeble, sensual, or selfish souls? Doubt it not!"
[Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry]
Masons from the first initiation which is the first degree are urged to mightily "seek the Light!" The average Mason is continually saying that he is "seeking the Light," and will spend his entire life "moving toward the Light." People who havent studied this subject would assume that this "Light" is the revelation of the God of the Bible. This statement is continuously held up to try to convince us that Masonry is Christian. In the above quote, Albert Pike is saying that Lucifer is the One who bears the Light of Freemasonry. The sentence immediately preceding confirms not only that Lucifer is the Light-bearer, but that Masons of previous degrees have been led to believe that the opposite was true. The wording of this sentence is difficult to understand unless you have special knowledge. Doc Marquis was asked for his explanation, lets look at what he had to say:
"The Apocalypse is, to those who receive the nineteenth Degree, the Apotheosis of that Sublime Faith which aspires to God Alone, and despises all the pomps and works of Lucifer." [Ibid.]
"The Apocalypse is, to those who receive the nineteenth Degree, the Apotheosis of that Sublime Faith which aspires to God Alone, and despises all the pomps and works of Lucifer."
[Ibid.]
It seems to contradict the sentence first quoted above, It appears to contradict the quote above where Pike identifies Lucifer as the Masonic Light-bearer. However when you understand the esoteric explanation from Doc Marquis, your understanding clears up completely. The Apocalypse is identified first by Pike as being the Book of Revelation written by the Apostle John. Pike then states that similar books from other religions are just as inspired as Revelation, mentioning Plato, Philo, the Sephar Yezirah, and the Sohar. Pike says all three of these books -- Apocalypse [Revelation], the Sephar Yezirah, and the Sohar, are all identically "inspired." And since the last two books are of non-Christian faiths, Albert Pike is saying that the contents of Revelation are no big deal.
Pike then says that these three books "are the completest embodiment of Occultism." [Ibid.] Now, we understand that Pike views the God of the Apocalypse as being the opposite but equal to Satan just as typical Occultists believe and teach! Secondly, Doc Marquis provides the esoteric, occultic, explanation. Pike is also saying in this sentence that, in the previous 18 degrees, Masons believed that God was the Light-bearer, but now, in this 19th Degree, Pike is giving them new revelation. This insight completely squares with stated Masonic policy of deliberately misleading Masons in the lower degrees until they were really ready for the "truth."
This is the truth - Masonry worships Lucifer.
PIKES TYPICAL SATANIC PHRASE -- OUT WHERE EVERYONE CAN SEE
Concrete evidence is then given by Pike of Freemasons worship of Satan/Lucifer on the very front of the cover of Morals and Dogma. Pike writes a Latin phrase just below the round seal of "God," this is a phrase proven to be Satanic. Any "Satanic brother" looking at this phrase would know that the contents of this book are Satanic. They would also understand that the entire religion of Freemasonry is Satanic.
"DEUS MEUMQUE JUS" is this phrase. The literal meaning is "God and My Right"
Doc Marquis says this statement is a typical one within Satanism. There is one meaning within another with this statement. The first meaning is that the Freemason can depend upon their God to determine their Right and Justice. The second meaning is, since the God of Freemasonry is Lucifer, Masons are saying that they are "using occult methods," through Lucifer, to achieve their Rights and Justice.
This phrase is very powerful and dangerous within Satanism says Marquis. A Satanist knows the content within Pikes book is Satanism just by reading, "DEUS MEUMQUE JUS." They dont even have to read the book, just the phrase to know.
"SEETHING ENERGIES OF LUCIFER WITHIN YOUR HANDS!"
"The day has come when Fellow Craftsman must know and apply their knowledge. The lost key to their grade is the mastery of emotion , which places the energy of the universe at their disposal. Man can only expect to be entrusted with great power by proving his ability to use it constructively and selflessly. When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft. The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands, and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly apply energy. He must follow in the footsteps of his forefather, Tubal-Cain, who with the mighty strength of the war god hammered his sword into a plowshare." [Manly P. Hall, 33rd Degree, K.T., The Lost Keys of Freemasonry or The Secret of Hiram Abiff , Forward by Reynold E. Blight, 33rd Degree, K.T., Illustrations by J. Augustus Knapp, 32nd Degree, Macoy Publishing and Masonic Supply Company, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, p. 48; Emphasis Added]
"The day has come when Fellow Craftsman must know and apply their knowledge. The lost key to their grade is the mastery of emotion , which places the energy of the universe at their disposal. Man can only expect to be entrusted with great power by proving his ability to use it constructively and selflessly. When the Mason learns that the key to the warrior on the block is the proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the mystery of his Craft.
The seething energies of Lucifer are in his hands, and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to properly apply energy. He must follow in the footsteps of his forefather, Tubal-Cain, who with the mighty strength of the war god hammered his sword into a plowshare."
[Manly P. Hall, 33rd Degree, K.T., The Lost Keys of Freemasonry or The Secret of Hiram Abiff , Forward by Reynold E. Blight, 33rd Degree, K.T., Illustrations by J. Augustus Knapp, 32nd Degree, Macoy Publishing and Masonic Supply Company, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, p. 48; Emphasis Added]
Once the Mason learns to control his emotion and to apply the "dynamo of living power," the Mason can be assured of being able to control the "seething energies of Lucifer" in his hands. He makes the admission that Masonry is the Craft, which is an old name for Witchcraft. Satanists are assured that, if they will join the coven and learn the Craft, he will control the supernatural power of Satan, just as Manly P. Hall promises here. As you can see, they have exposed themselves. Powerful proof that Freemasonry is Satanism. The language is direct and clear. It is not cluttered with deliberately confusing arcane language that only an insider can understand. Further, note that Hall and Reynold E. Blight are 33rd Degree Masons, while the Illustrator is 32nd Degree. Macoy Publishing Company is also one of the most respected of all Masonic Publishing Houses.
REVELATIONS OF TUBAL-CAIN Please take note that Hall makes reference to Tubal-Cain, above. We need to review this sentence because it too reveals Satanism. The Mason must "follow in the footsteps of his forefather, Tubal-Cain, who with the mighty strength of the war god hammered his sword into a plowshare."
In the Masonic Quiz Book, the candidate is asked this question:
"Who was Tubal Cain?" Answer: "He is the Vulcan of the pagans." [William P. Peterson, Editor, Masonic Quiz Book: "Ask Me Brother", Chicago, Illinois, Charles T. Power Company, 1950, p. 18, 88, 131, 213; also found in John Yarker, The Arcane Schools: A Review of their Origin and Antiquity: With a General History of Freemasonry and Its Relation to the Theosophic Scientific and Philosophic Mysteries, Belfast, Ireland, William Tait, 1909, p. 30; also found in A. R. Chambers, Editor, Questions and Answers, 1972, p. 237; also found in Malcom Duncan, Duncans Ritual of Freemasonry, New York, David McKay Company, Inc., n.d. 3rd Edition, p. 94.]
"Who was Tubal Cain?" Answer: "He is the Vulcan of the pagans."
[William P. Peterson, Editor, Masonic Quiz Book: "Ask Me Brother", Chicago, Illinois, Charles T. Power Company, 1950, p. 18, 88, 131, 213; also found in John Yarker, The Arcane Schools: A Review of their Origin and Antiquity: With a General History of Freemasonry and Its Relation to the Theosophic Scientific and Philosophic Mysteries, Belfast, Ireland, William Tait, 1909, p. 30; also found in A. R. Chambers, Editor, Questions and Answers, 1972, p. 237; also found in Malcom Duncan, Duncans Ritual of Freemasonry, New York, David McKay Company, Inc., n.d. 3rd Edition, p. 94.]
Tubal-Cain is the password given in the Third Degree of Master Mason. You can identify Freemasonry with paganism within this sentence. But what is the meaning of the Vulcan of the pagans? A very important question because Manly P. Hall advises the Mason that, once he has the seething energies of Lucifer in his hands, he is to walk in Tubal-Cains footsteps. Hall makes it sound like Tubal-Cain is one of the Greek gods, does he not? And, we know conclusively that Tubal-Cain is Vulcan of the Pagans. Let us review who Vulcan of the pagans is, by looking within occult sources.
"Vulcan was a sun deity who was associated with fire, thunderbolts and light. The festival in honor of him was called the Vulcania in which human sacrifices were offered." [Percival George Woodcock, Short Dictionary of Mythology, New York, Philosophical Library, p. 152]. "According to Diel, he bears a family relationship to the Christian devil." [J.E. Cirlot, translated by Jack Sage, A Dictionary of Symbols , New York, Dorset Press, 1991, p. 362]. "It is fascinating to know that he married Venus, another name for Lucifer or the devil ." [Woodcock, op. cit., p. 150-151]
"Vulcan was a sun deity who was associated with fire, thunderbolts and light. The festival in honor of him was called the Vulcania in which human sacrifices were offered."
[Percival George Woodcock, Short Dictionary of Mythology, New York, Philosophical Library, p. 152].
"According to Diel, he bears a family relationship to the Christian devil."
[J.E. Cirlot, translated by Jack Sage, A Dictionary of Symbols , New York, Dorset Press, 1991, p. 362].
"It is fascinating to know that he married Venus, another name for Lucifer or the devil ."
[Woodcock, op. cit., p. 150-151]
Manly P. Hall tells the Mason that he can have the seething energies of Lucifer in his hands, and then tells him to follow in the footsteps of the "Christian devil," to whom "human sacrifices" are offered.
THE INFERNAL NAMES
There may be some people who have read up to this point and still might be skeptical. Masonry cleverly masks its references to Satan. There are 77 names which pagans have used to refer to Satan over the centuries and they are in the Satanic Bible. Well review some of these "Infernal Names" of Satanism found within Masonry. [Satanic Bible, Anton LaVey, p. 144-46] We shall list the Freemason teaching on each of these names, and then the explanation.
Baphomet -- "The Gnostics held that it [universal agent] composed the igneous [pertaining to fire] body of the Holy Spirit, and it was adored in the secret rites of the Sabbat or the Temple under the hieroglyphic figure of Baphomet or the hermaphroditic goat of Mendes ." [Pike, op. cit., p. 734, teaching of the 28th Degree]
Baphomet --
"The Gnostics held that it [universal agent] composed the igneous [pertaining to fire] body of the Holy Spirit, and it was adored in the secret rites of the Sabbat or the Temple under the hieroglyphic figure of Baphomet or the hermaphroditic goat of Mendes ."
[Pike, op. cit., p. 734, teaching of the 28th Degree]
We find it absolutely incredible that the Freemasons should portray the Holy Spirit with the Satanic symbol, Baphomet.
Eliphas Levi created this symbol, one of the foremost Satanists and Freemasons of all time. The Baphomet is one of the most evil of all symbols. Looking closely at the Baphomet (above) you will see that the emphasis is on sex. This Being is androgynous -- both male and female -- you can see it has the breasts of a woman, and an erect phallus. Youll notice that the erect phallus has two serpents coiled around it. The Baphomet has the head of a "Horned Goat," another title for Satan. Masonic and Occult Symbols Illustrated is a book in which Dr. Burns says,
"In a book on witchcraft, The Complete Book of Witchcraft and Demonology ... the caption states that he is the horned god of the witches, symbol of sex incarnate." [p. 51]
"In a book on witchcraft, The Complete Book of Witchcraft and Demonology ... the caption states that he is the horned god of the witches, symbol of sex incarnate."
[p. 51]
And if you look at his right hand you will see Baphomet making the sign of the Devils triad.
"Baphomet is also known as the Sabbatic goat, in whose form Satan is to be worshipped at the Witches Sabbath." [Frank Gaynor, Dictionary of Mysticism]
"Baphomet is also known as the Sabbatic goat, in whose form Satan is to be worshipped at the Witches Sabbath."
[Frank Gaynor, Dictionary of Mysticism]
Then, we discovered that Baphomet is officially approved as a symbol of the Church of Satan [The Occult Emporium, Winter, 1993-1994, p. 54] and that it is worn by the Priest of Satan [Ibid., 1990-1991, p. 26] Since Albert Pike linked Baphomet with the Goat of Mendes , we will show this obviously Satanic symbol, as well. It should also be noted that from the way a pentagram is normally seen (one point up, two down), rotating the pentagram 33 degrees you get a Satanic Pentagram. 33 is the highest degree there is in Freemasonry.
Freemasonry makes use of the Pentagram quite a bit. You can see the similarity between the Eastern Star and and the Satanic Pentagram above. The Eastern Star is a Freemason division for women. Once again, Masonry utilizes a very evil Satanic symbol for the Order that trains its young, impressionable girls. Why didnt Masonry at least utilize the "Good Star" with one point up, rather than the most evil 5-pointed star, this Goats Head of Mendes? Truly, their use of this symbol tells us exactly that they are evil through and through, even to their own young girls.
Eastern Star
Above is a picture of a typical Masonic Ring symbol (compass, square, and rule). On the right is the full figure from which the Ring symbol was taken. Looking closely you can see two 5-pointed pentagrams. One of which is colored darker than the other. The one depicting Satan is the one which has two points up and one down. And the other with one point up and two down, depicting Lucifer. [See the Lucifer-Satan Pentagram explanation, below]. The Masonic Ring symbol is just a disguised Pentagram with both the "Good" and "Evil" stars represented.
Thoth -- "The first HERMES was the Intelligence or Word of God. Moved with compassion for a race living without law ... God sent to man Osiris and Isis, accompanied by THOTH, the incarnation or terrestrial repetition of the first HERMES; who taught men the arts, science, and the ceremonies of religion; and then ascended to Heaven or the Moon." [Pike, Morals and Dogma].
Thoth --
"The first HERMES was the Intelligence or Word of God. Moved with compassion for a race living without law ... God sent to man Osiris and Isis, accompanied by THOTH, the incarnation or terrestrial repetition of the first HERMES; who taught men the arts, science, and the ceremonies of religion; and then ascended to Heaven or the Moon."
[Pike, Morals and Dogma].
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky was founder of the House of Theosophy. Her books were all written by her demonic Guiding Spirits in a form that is called Automatic Writing.
These writings tie Thoth together nicely.
"... Hermes, the god of wisdom, called also Thoth, Tat, Set, and Sat-an; and that he was, furthermore, when viewed under his bad aspect, Typhon, the Egyptian Satan , who was also Set." [Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, Isis Unveiled , Vol. I: Science]
"... Hermes, the god of wisdom, called also Thoth, Tat, Set, and Sat-an; and that he was, furthermore, when viewed under his bad aspect, Typhon, the Egyptian Satan , who was also Set."
[Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, Isis Unveiled , Vol. I: Science]
Blavatsky like Anton LaVey in the Satanic Bible, had no trouble tying the Infernal Name, Thoth, with Satan, and especially the Egyptian Satan. This subject does go back a long way. Remember Pikes words, quoted in the very beginning, that "Masonry is identical to the ancient Mysteries!" What this statement means is that Freemasons believe the same as all the Ancient Mysteries and worship the same god, Satan, and they worship Satan under different names. Keep in mind that we are dealing with a highly advanced people. A people who have had a lot of practice in their art of deceit. From the Table of Coincidence page in the Masonic rituals section you were made aware that individuals within the U.S government and NASA have been staging major worldly events which coincide with 19.5/33 degrees from the perspective of that particular event. This again is traceable back to ancient Egypt. Since Blavatsky mentioned another of the Infernal Names, Typhon, and has identified him as the Egyptian Satan, let us review Albert Pike once again, as we discover that Freemasonry reveres Typhon as well.
Typhon -- "Osiris was the son of Helios (Phra) the divine offspring congenerate with the dawn and at the same time an incarnation of Kneph or Agathodaemon, the Good Spirit, including all his possible manifestations, either physical or moral. He represented in a familiar form the beneficent aspect of all higher emanations and in him was developed the conception of a Being purely good, so that it became necessary to set up another power as his adversary, called Seth, Baby, or Typhon to account for the injurious influences of Nature." [Pike, op. cit., p. 588, Teachings of the 28th Degree, Knight of the Sun, or Prince Adept].
Typhon --
"Osiris was the son of Helios (Phra) the divine offspring congenerate with the dawn and at the same time an incarnation of Kneph or Agathodaemon, the Good Spirit, including all his possible manifestations, either physical or moral. He represented in a familiar form the beneficent aspect of all higher emanations and in him was developed the conception of a Being purely good, so that it became necessary to set up another power as his adversary, called Seth, Baby, or Typhon to account for the injurious influences of Nature."
[Pike, op. cit., p. 588, Teachings of the 28th Degree, Knight of the Sun, or Prince Adept].
Once again, we can see the occult, Satanic doctrine that all of Nature is composed of good and evil, black and white, opposites that are equal but opposite. Folks, this is pure Satanism, and Albert Pike has just espoused it, explaining that nature could not allow the all-loving, all-good Osiris to exist without an evil counterpart. In fact, Satanism and Freemasonry both share the same, very revealing, symbol to depict this situation. Quoting from Masonic sources, you are provided with this picture. In these symbols, the below left-hand Pentagram surrounded by the magic circle is Lucifer -- the good god -- with the one point upward and two down; the below right-hand Pentagram, again surrounded by the magic circle, is Satan -- the evil god -- with the two points up and the one down.
These symbols depict exactly what Albert Pike is talking about in the paragraph above. He says that the evil god, whom he calls Seth or Typhon [Typhon is listed in The Satanic Bible as Infernal Names for Satan] is the adversary of the good god, Osiris; therefore, Pike is saying Osiris is Lucifer , a finding consistent with the rest of the Occult realm.
[Above symbols taken from: Arthur Edward Waite, The Mysteries Of Magic: A Digest of the Writings of Eliphas Levi, Chicago, DeLaurence, Scott, and Company, Inc., 1966 Edition, 1909, p. 223 -- NOTE: Waite is a Freemason author!; also shown in D. Duane Winters, A Search For Light In A Place of Darkness: A Study of Freemasonry , p. 69.]
You should find this highly interesting that the Masonic street layout for Washington, D.C., which is on another page, is laid out in the form of the evil Pentagram on the right, the symbol for Satan, also known as the Goats Head of Mendes. Therefore, the Masonic Plan for the United States is one of evil, even in their own minds, not good.
Pan -- "... Satan is not a black god, but negation of God ... this is not a Person, but a Force, created for good, but which may represent evil. It is the instrument of Liberty or Free Will. They represent this Force ... under the mythologic and horned form of the God Pan; thence came the he-goat of the Sabbat, brother of the Ancient Serpent, and the Light-bearer ..." [Pike, Morals and Dogma, p. 102]
Pan --
"... Satan is not a black god, but negation of God ... this is not a Person, but a Force, created for good, but which may represent evil. It is the instrument of Liberty or Free Will. They represent this Force ... under the mythologic and horned form of the God Pan; thence came the he-goat of the Sabbat, brother of the Ancient Serpent, and the Light-bearer ..."
[Pike, Morals and Dogma, p. 102]
Since The Satanic Bible lists Pan as one of the Infernal Names of Satan, we need to look further into the Occult for more information on Pan. However, we now know that, from Pan came the he-goat of the Sabbat, brother of the Serpent, and the Light-bearer, [Lucifer] , because Albert Pike, the #1 Freemason of all history, has just told us. One thing more to keep in mind. They have planned their debut of their Anti-Christ. He will be on the scene soon, you can bet on it. Its all part of their New World Order. Freemasonry is truly evil, it is deceptive, it is the work of the Devil. Listen to Bill Cooper, describe Freemasonry. Cooper was a member of Demolay during his youth, and later, spent over 20 years in Naval Intelligence. He is most familiar with the organizations which are driving the world into the New World Order and the appearance of its Messiah, the Biblical Antichrist.
"I tell you now that Freemasonry is one of the most wicked and terrible organizations upon this earth. The Masons are major players in the struggle for world domination. The 33rd Degree is split into two. One split contains the core of the Luciferian Illuminati and the other contains those who have no knowledge of it whatsoever." [Behold A Pale Horse]
"I tell you now that Freemasonry is one of the most wicked and terrible organizations upon this earth. The Masons are major players in the struggle for world domination. The 33rd Degree is split into two. One split contains the core of the Luciferian Illuminati and the other contains those who have no knowledge of it whatsoever."
[Behold A Pale Horse]
Return
