# The Brookings Institute - 2

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/elite/brookings2.htm

The Brookings Institute
Page TWO of TWO
Consultant and Member of the Board of Directors of Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia and Johns Hopkins University
Net Worth: $800 mil
Mr. Abramson retired on July 19, 1996 as a director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Healthcare, Inc. (managed health care company), positions he had held since 1982. Mr. Abramson is the founder of U.S. Healthcare, Inc., which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company on July 19, 1996 and is now known as Aetna U.S. Healthcare Inc. Mr. Abramson currently is self- employed as a consultant and private investor and is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Maine Merchant Bank, LLC. He also is a trustee of the Brookings Institution, the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and serves on the board of trustees of Johns Hopkins University. Mr. Abramson is the author of Healing Our Health Care System.
With his wife, he runs the The Abramson Family Foundation, which works with PEJE (The Partnership for Excellence in Jewish Education) and The Madlyn and Leonard Abramson Center for Jewish Life.
He is Vice Chairman of the Republican Jewish Coalition.
The Hebrew word emet means truth. And truth was the guiding principle behind a three-week International Hillel program at Tel Aviv University (TAU) in Israel called EMET, designed to bring the facts about the current Middle East crisis to students.
"The whole idea was to come back with a proactive, instead of a reactive agenda," said Michal Kedem, 22, one of only two Canadians - both in their final year at McGill University - to take part in the summer think-tank program.
Florida philanthropist Leonard Abramson conceived of EMET after talking with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.They were both concerned about the lack of effective Israeli hasbarah and intent on doing something about it. Other Jewish philanthropists connected to Hillel who came forward to support the project included Bernard Marcus, Edgar
http://www.cjnews.com/pastissues/01/sept20-01/campus/campus.htm (also: http://www.jafi.org.il/agenda/2001/english/wk28/5.asp )
Mr. Bates has served as a director of Ventana since April of 1996. From August 1991 to May 1995, Mr. Bates served on the Board of Directors of Twentieth Century Industries and was a member of its compensation committee. Prior to Twentieth Century Industries, Mr. Bates served as the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company. Mr. Bates also served as State Farm's Chief Investment Officer. In March of 1991, Mr. Bates retired from State Farm. Prior to Mr. Bates' employment with State Farm, he was a partner in the investment firm of Stein, Roe & Farnham in Chicago. Mr. Bates received a B.S. and an M.S. from the University of Chicago.
Chairman, Cabot-Wellington LLC
Louis Wellington Cabot has been with the Cabot Corporation since 1948, serving as President (1950-1969), Chairman of the Board (1969-1986), and director emeritus (1986-present). In addition, Cabot was Chairman of the Brookings Institution (1986-1992) and a director of the boards of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (1975-1978), New England Telephone and Telegraph, Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corporation, R.R. Donnelley & Sons, Wang Laboratories, Inc., Penn Central R.R., and Arthur D. Little, Inc. He is currently Chairman of Cabot- Wellington LLC, a Director of Conservation International, and a trustee of Northeastern University, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and the Cabot Family Charitable Trust.
A veteran of World War II, Cabot was a member of the Presidents Blue Ribbon Commission on Defense Management (1985). In addition, he chaired both the Presidents Circle of the National Academy of Sciences (1992-1995) and the Sloan Commission on Government and Higher Education (1977-1980).
He is Vice President of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Retired Chairman and CEO, Bank of America Corporation
As a child in Hamilton, Illinois, Tom Clausen aspired to become a transnational citizen. He has achieved that goal, visiting 119 nations during his banking and public service career, and exercising his leadership skills to improve the lives of countless individuals around the world.
After graduating from Carthage in 1944, Mr. Clausen earned a law degree from the University of Minnesota.
He entered Bank of Americas executive training program in 1949, and in 1970 was elected president and chief executive officer of BankAmerica Corporation. He led the bank through dramatic growth from 1970 through 1981, then served during the Reagan administration as President of the World Bank. In 1986, he returned to BankAmerica as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, retiring in 1990.
Mr. Clausen is a graduate of the Advanced Management Program of the Harvard Business School and a recipient of the Harvard Business School Alumni Achievement Award, the Outstanding Achievement Award from the University of Minnesota, the Carthage Distinguished Alumnus Award, and the California Industrialist of the Year Award. He is the recipient of honorary degrees from Carthage, Gonzaga University, Lewis and Clark College, the University of Notre Dame, the University of the Pacific, and the University of Santa Clara. He has been awarded the prestigious University of CaliforniaSan Francisco Medal and the Carthage Flame.Mr. Clausen has been a trustee or director of numerous educational, foreign policy, or economic organizationsincluding Carthage; the Walter A. Haas School of Business at the University of CaliforniaBerkeley; the University of CaliforniaSan Francisco Foundation; the Asia Foundation; the Committee for Economic Development; Population Action International; and the International Center for Economic Growth.
Mr. Clausen is immediate past Chairman of the World Affairs Council of Northern California. He is a member of the Bretton Woods Committee and the KoreaU.S. Wiseman Council. He is advisor to the Japan Foundations Center for Global Partnership. He has received awards from the governments of Italy, Japan, Senegal, South Korea, Spain, and Venezuela.
Mr. Clausen resides in Hillsborough, California. He has grown sons, Eric and Mark.
http://www.carthage.edu/academics/clausen/index.html
Senior Partner and Senior Counsellor, O'Melveny & Myers
William T. Coleman, Jr., became the nation's fourth Secretary of Transportation on March 7, 1975, when he was administered the oath of office at a ceremony conducted by President Gerald R. Ford at the White House. President Ford nominated Secretary Coleman to the cabinet position on January 14, 1975. The Senate confirmed his nomination on March.3, 1975.
Secretary Coleman entered office following a distinguished career in law, business and public service that included advisory or consultant positions to four former Presidents.
At the time of his nomination, he was the senior partner in the law firm of Dilworth, Paxson, Kalish, Levy & Coleman of Philadelphia and special counsel to the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority. Additionally, he was a director of Pan American World Airways, Inc., Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company, First Pennsylvania Corporation, Philadelphia Electric Company and Western Saving Fund Society. He was also a member of the board of governors of the American Stock Exchange and a trustee of both the Rand Corporation and The Brookings Institution,
Born in the Germantown section of Philadelphia, Secretary Coleman attended local public schools and was graduated summa cum laude in 1941 from the University of Pennsylvania. He is a 1946 magna cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School, where he was a member of the board of editors of the Harvard Law Review and recipient of the Joseph E. Beale Prize.
Secretary Coleman began his law career in 1947 as law secretary to Judge Herbert F. Goodrich of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The next year he became a U.S. Supreme Court law clerk, serving on the staff of the late Justice Felix Frankfurter.
Secretary Coleman has held several national-level public service positions. In 1969 he was a member of the U.S. delegation to the 24th session of the United Nations General Assembly; in 1971-1972, a member of the National Commission on Productivity; from 1963 to 1975, consultant to the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; in 1964 senior consultant and assistant counsel to the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy; and from 1959 through 1961, a member of President Eisenhower's Committee on Government Employment Policy.
An ardent defender of civil rights, Secretary Coleman was one of the authors of the legal brief that persuaded the Supreme Court in 1954 to outlaw segregation in public schools. In 1965, he was retained by former Governor Scranton of Pennsylvania to assist in removing racial restrictions at Girard College in Philadelphia. He has served as a member of the national legal committee, director, member of the executive committee and president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. He has also served as a board member and president of the Earl Warren Legal Training Program,
Among the professional organizations with which Secretary Coleman is or has been associated are the American College of Trial Lawyers, the Council on Foreign Relations, the American Law Institute, the American Bar Association and the American Arbitration Association.
Education
Harvard University, LL.B., 1946: magna cum laude; Editor, Harvard Law Review
University of Pennsylvania, A.B., 1941: summa cum laude; Phi Beta Kappa; Pi Gamma Mu; The American Academy of Arts and Science
Professional Activities
Law Clerk, Honorable Herbert F. Goodrich, U.S. Court of Appeals, Third Circuit; Honorable Felix Frankfurter, U.S. Supreme Court
Admitted, Washington, D.C.
Member
Executive Committee of the Trilateral Commission and Council on Foreign Relations
Former Member
Board of Overseers of Harvard University; Boards of Directors of: AMAX, Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., Chase Manhattan Corporation, CIGNA Corporation, IBM Corporation, Pan American World Airways, PepsiCo., Inc., Philadelphia Electric Company, and New American Holdings
Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation during the Ford Administration
Fellow, American College of Trial Lawyers; American Academy of Appellate Lawyers
Council, American Law Institute
Board of Trustees, Carnegie Institution of Washington; Brookings Institution; Philadelphia Museum of Art (Vice President); New York City Ballet, Inc.; Board of Directors of the National Symphony Orchestra; Trustee Council, National Gallery of Art
Advisory Director, Metropolitan Opera
Officer, the French Legion of Honor; Presidential Medal of Freedom
http://www.omm.com/webcode/navigate.asp?nodeHandle=31&idContent=1994
Senior Counsel, Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering
Lloyd Cutler, one of the firm's founding partners, maintains an active practice in several fields, including international arbitration and dispute resolution, constitutional law, appellate advocacy, and public policy advice.
Mr. Cutler served as Counsel to President Clinton and Counsel to President Carter. He also served as Special Counsel to the President on Ratification of the Salt II Treaty (1970-1980); President's Special Representative for Maritime Resource and Boundary Negotiations with Canada (1977-1979); and Senior Consultant, President's Commission on Strategic Forces (Scowcroft Commission, 1983-1984). He was a member and former Chairman of the Quadrennial Commission on Legislative, Executive and Judicial Salaries, and was a member of the President's Commission on Federal Ethics Law Reform (1989).
Mr. Cutler is a graduate of Yale University (B.A. 1936; LL.B. 1939) and was awarded a Yale honorary degree as Doctor of Laws in 1983. He also was awarded an honorary degree as Doctor of Laws from Princeton University in 1994; the Jefferson Medal in Law at the University of Virginia in 1995; the Fordham-Stein Prize, Fordham University School of Law, 1995; and the Marshall-Wythe medal of the Law School of William and Mary.
Mr. Cutler was a founder and Co-Chairman of the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights Under Law. He has served as Chairman of the Board of the Salzburg Seminar; Co-Chairman of the Committee on the Constitutional System; a member of the Council of the American Law Institute; a trustee emeritus of The Brookings Institution and a member of its Executive Committee; and an Honorary Bencher of the Middle Temple. He also has served as a director of a number of national business corporations. In and out of government, he has written frequently and appeared often on television as a commentator and advocate in connection with a wide range of public policy matters.
http://www.wilmer.com/docs/frameset.cfm?SECTION=lawyers&PAGE=index
Director, McKinsey & Company, Inc.
D. Ronald Daniel is an employee of McKinsey & Company. He joined McKinsey & Company in 1957 and held various positions with the firm, including Managing Partner from 1976 to 1988. He has served as a director of McKinsey & Company since 1968. Mr. Daniel is a member of the Harvard Corporation, the Harvard Board of Overseers, and is the Treasurer of Harvard University. Mr. Daniel is also a member of the boards of WNET/Thirteen, New Yorks public television station, the Brookings Institution and Rockefeller University. He was elected a Director of Yum! Brands effective October 7, 1997, and is a member of the Executive/Finance Committee, Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee. He is also the Chairman of Ripplewood Holdings (a New York based Private Equity firm).
D. Ronald Daniel, for instance, was Jeffrey Skilling's boss at McKinsey during the 1980s, when Skilling consulted with Enron to design the energy giant's unsustainable business model. Because of the work of Daniel and Skilling, McKinsey is now a defendant in the largest suit against Enron. Moreover, it is remarkably telling that just as the university prepares to bid farewell to one of the Enron club, it has already announced the entry of another one. Robert Rubin, the Corporation's latest addition, is a director of Citigroup, Enron's largest creditor. Rubin attempted to obtain a Federal bailout for Enron as it approached collapse-while its top executives cashed in on Enron's falling stock and drained the pension funds of thousands of their employees. (more)
Wayzata, Minnesota
C. Douglas Dillon was nominated by President John F. Kennedy to be the 57th Secretary of the Treasury. He served from January 21, 1961 to April 1, 1965.
He served as Under Secretary of State for President Eisenhower from June 12, 1959 until January 4, 1961, at the time of his appointment by President Kennedy to head the Treasury Department. In his position at the State Department, he was responsible for the economic policies and programs of the Department of State and for coordinating the Mutual Security Program, both in its military and nonmilitary aspects. These duties were in addition to the Under Secretary's traditional responsibilities. He directed the State Department's economic activities from March 1957, when he was appointed Deputy Under Secretary for Economic Affairs, a position that was elevated to the Under Secretary level by the Congress in 1958. While in the State Department, he attended several Foreign Ministers meetings and headed a number of U.S. delegations to international conferences. The latter include the meeting of the Committee of 21 of the Organization of American States which, in September 1960, concluded the Act of Bogota, and the Ministerial Meeting in Paris in December 1960, which put into final form the Convention for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Dillon was not only well versed in the economic programs of the Government, but was one of the founders of the Inter-American Development Bank in 1959. It was established to promote the economic development of Latin America.
As Secretary of the Treasury, Dillon was the United States spokesman for the Kennedy Administration's program of aid for the economic development of Latin America under the Alliance for Progress Program in 1961. The work continued under President Johnson, who had pledged his support for continuing aid for the Alliance for Progress.
Mr. Dillon had a long career in the international field as an investment banker prior to entering Government Service. He was a member of the New York Stock Exchange from 1931 to 1936, and in 1936 became a Director and subsequently President of the United States and Foreign Securities Corporation. In 1938, he became a Vice President and Director of Dillon, Read and Company, being elected Chairman of the Board in 1946.
Mr. Dillion saw active service in the navy during World War II, receiving decorations for combat actions. In 1953, President Eisenhower appointed him Ambassador to France. He served in that position from February 27, 1953, until the President appointed him Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in 1959.
Dillon was born in Geneva, Switzerland, on August 21, 1909, the son of Clarence and Ann Douglass Dillon. He gratuated from Groton in 1927 and Harvard in 1931 magna cum laude. He served both his schools, as a trustee of Groton School, and a member of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University from 1952 until 1958. Mr. Dillon received many honors for achievement in public affairs, government service, and creativity in banking. He was awarded Honorary Degrees by Harvard, Columbia, New York University, Lafayette College, Williams College, Hartford College, Rutgers University, Princeton University, and the University of Pennsylvania. In 1959, he was named "Outstanding Citizen of New Jersey." He also received the Lafayette Fellowship Foundation Gold Medal.
Mr. Dillon married the former Phyllis Ellsworth. They had two daughters, Phyllis Ellsworth Colins and Joan Dillon Moseley.
http://www.ustreas.gov/education/history/secretaries/cddillon.html
Chairman, Duncan Interests
Charles W. Duncan, Jr., serves as chairman of the Business Coalition for Clean Air.
Duncan served as deputy secretary of the U.S. Department of Defense from January 1977 to August 1979 and as secretary of the Department of Energy from August 1979 until January 1981.
He has been involved in private investments since 1981. Duncan is a native Houstonian and a chemical engineering graduate of Rice University. He also completed two years of management study at The University of Texas.
Following graduation from Rice, Duncan worked as a chemical engineer for Humble Oil & Refining Company (now ExxonMobil).
Duncan joined Duncan Foods Company in 1947 and was elected president in 1958. When Duncan Foods merged into The Coca-Cola Company in 1964, Duncan was elected to that companys board, where he served, except while in government service, until 1997.
He was elected president of The Coca-Cola Company in 1971.
Duncan serves on numerous boards, including director of Newfield Exploration Company, Inc., and Vice-Chairman and Director of The Welch Foundation.
He also serves as a director for the Greater Houston Partnership. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He was a director of American Express until he retired in 1998.
His son is John H Duncan.
http://www.houston.org/partnership/cWduncan.htm
Retired Chairman and CEO, Springs Industries, Inc.
Elisha's service to the industry began soon after he joined Springs Industries in 1980. He has served as ATMI president and a member of ATMI's board of directors, as chairman and a member of its Executive Committee, its Budget, Finance and Membership Committee, and its Government Relations Committee.
He served as president of ATMI from 1995 to 1996 and chaired ATMI's Quest for the Best in Safety and Health program from 1996 to 1998.
Elisha joined Springs in 1980 as president and chief operating officer and as a member of its board of directors. In 1981, he was named chief executive officer, and in 1983, he was named chairman of the board. In 1998, he was succeeded as chief executive officer of the company by Crandall C. Bowles and remains chairman of the board and chairman of the executive committee. Before joining Springs, Elisha was vice chairman and a member of the board of directors of Jewel Companies, Inc., a diversified national retailing business in Chicago.
Elisha is a director of AT&T, Carolina Power & Light Company and director of Cummins Engine Company. He is a member of the American Society of Corporate Executives and the Business Council. In addition, he is a member of The Business Roundtable, serving on its Policy Committee; a trustee for the Committee for Economic Development; a member of the President's Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations; and an honorary trustee of the Brookings Institution. He is also a former member of the Board of Directors of the Associates of Harvard Business School.
A native of Gary, Ind., Elisha is a graduate of Wabash College and the Harvard Business School.
http://www.atmi.org/newsroom/releases/pr-09-98.asp
Chairman of the Board (Retired), Times Mirror
Mr. Erburu is the former Chair of the Board of the Times Mirror Company, a position he held from 1986 to 1991. He has been with the company for more than thirty years, and served as Chief Executive Officer (1981-1995) and President (1974-1986 and 1994-1995). He practiced law before joining Times Mirror in 1961. Among his business, civic, cultural and educational involvements, Mr. Erburu is director of Cox Communications and Tejon Ranch Company (publicly-held companies), the Tomas Rivera Center. He is a member of the boards of seven charitable foundations. He is director or member of the Business Council, the Business Roundtable, the California Business Roundtable, and director of Marsh & McLennan Co. Inc. and, formerly, the Chamber of Commerce of the United States (1974-1984) and the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce (1975-1981).
He is Chairman of the Boards of the National Gallery of Art, the Pacific Council on International Policy and the Board of Councilors of the College of Letters, Arts and Science of the University of Southern California. He is also Chairman Emeritus of the Huntington Library and the J. Paul Getty Trust and a trustee of The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the Ahmanson Foundation, the Ralph M. Parson Foundation, the Fletcher Jones Foundation and the Carrie Estelle Doheny Foundation.
Ex-Director Council on Foreign Relations (retired 1998)
Senior Principal, MMC Capital Inc. (Marsh & McLennan)
Friedman is currently a senior principal at Marsh & McLennan Capital, Inc., and a limited partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. New York. He was senior chairman of Goldman, Sachs from 1994 to 1997, co-chairman or sole Chairman from 1990 to 1994, and co-chief operating officer from 1987 to 1990. He joined Goldman, Sachs in 1966 after serving as a law clerk to a Federal District Judge and as an attorney in New York. He attended Cornell University and Columbia Law School.
Friedman is the chairman of the board of trustees of Columbia University, the chairman of the executive committee of The Brookings Institution, and a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research and the Concord Coalition. He also serves on the executive committee of the board of managers at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and The Trilateral Commission. In addition, Friedman is a director of FannieMae, Wal-Mart and Risk Capitol Holdings.
http://www.markle.org/about/_about_boardbio_friedman.stm
He is also a member of Bushs Presidents Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB).
Chairman, Department of Afro-American Studies, Harvard University
Henry Louis Gates Jr. is one of the most prominent and well- known academics in the United States today. He has drawn the world's attention to Harvard's Afro-American Studies program since he took over as its chair, and his reputation has been solidly built on several fronts as well. As a critic and editor, Gates contributed to broadening the discourse on African American literature with books like Figures in Black: Words, Signs, and the Racial Self (1987) and The Signifying Monkey: Towards a Theory of Afro-American Literary Criticism (1988), which offer refreshing critical approaches that consider cultural traditions in African American literature. Gates has been instrumental in changing the literary canon in U.S. education and bringing literary history to light through the numerous critical texts and republished works he has edited, as well as lost manuscripts he has discovered. Beyond this, Gates has narrated a major PBS documentary on Africa and co-edited a huge Pan- African encyclopedia on CD-ROM for Microsoft.
Managing Director, Harvard Square Netcasting
Fletcher Foundation Advisory Board
Director, Educational Netcasting Foundation
Managing Director, Africana.com
Board of Trustees. Judge Baker Children's Center
Board of Directors, Afropaedia LLC
Board of Directors, Denham Management Ltd.
Board of Directors, Pulitzer Prize Board (1997-)
Board of Directors, Perseus Book Group
Board of Trustees, Bates College
Board of Directors, Library of America
Board of Trustees, Lawrence University
Board of Directors, Concord Academy
Board of Directors, Brookings Institute
Board of Directors, European Institute for Literary and Cultural Studies
Board of Editors, Prometheus,
Board of Directors, Museum of Afro-American
History, African Meeting House
Consultant, The James Weldon Johnson Papers Project
Board of Directors, African-American Newspapers and
Periodicals: A National Bibliography and Union List
Board of Directors, Studio Museum in Harlem
Board of Directors, Phillips Brooks House Association
Board of Directors, Museum of Afro-American History
Board of Directors, Lincoln Center Theater Project
Board of Directors, Studio Museum
Advisory Board, National Coalition Against Censorship
Board of Directors, Rabbi Tanenbaum Foundation
Executive Board, Pen American Center
Board of Directors, Whitney Museum
Board of Trustees, Core Knowledge Foundation
Board of Trustees, Djerassi Resident Artists Program
Board of Directors, The Amistad Research Center
Honorary Director, Harlem Educational Activities Fund, Inc.
Advisory Board, The National Duke Ellington Awards
Advisory Board, Montgomery College Humanities Institute
He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Chairman of the Board, Levi Strauss & Co.
Bob Haas is the Chairman of Levi Strauss & Co. (LS&CO.) and the great-great-grandnephew of the company's founder, Levi Strauss.
Haas was named Chairman in 1989 and served as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) from 1984 to 1999. As CEO, Haas was instrumental in leading the company through a business turnaround that resulted in more than a decade of rapid sales growth and profit expansion. He led the successful effort to take the company private through a leveraged buyout in 1985. In addition, he oversaw the creation of the Dockers® and Slates® brands, and spearheaded the company's substantial international development.
Haas joined LS&CO. in 1973. He has served as Marketing Director and Group Vice President of Levi Strauss International, Director of Corporate Marketing Development, Senior Vice President of Corporate Planning and Policy, President of the Operating Groups, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the company.
Haas' involvement outside of LS&CO. is extensive. He is currently a Trustee of the Evelyn & Walter Haas, Jr. Fund, a Berkeley Fellow and Director of the [San Francisco] Bay Area Council. Haas is a member of the North American Executive Committee of the Trilateral Commission, The Conference Board, the Council on Foreign Relations, the California Business Roundtable and the Ron Brown Award for Corporate Leadership. He is also a member of the League of Women Voters Education Fund's National Advisory Committee and serves on the Advisory Board of the Haas School of Business, UC Berkeley. Additionally, Haas is president of the Levi Strauss Foundation, member and Honorary Trustee of the Brookings Institution, Honorary Director of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation, former Trustee of the Ford Foundation and former Director of the American Apparel Association.
Haas graduated as class valedictorian from the University of California, Berkeley in 1964. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa that same year. He served in the Peace Corps in the Ivory Coast from 1964 to 1966 and was a White House Fellow from 1968 to 1969. He received his masters of business administration from the Harvard Graduate School of Business in 1968 where he was a Baker Scholar. He was an associate with the management consulting firm of McKinsey and Company from 1969 to 1972.
http://www.levistrauss.com/about/bios/
Andrew Heiskell is a Chairman Emeritus of the New York Public Library. In 1942, Mr. Heiskell became the General Manager of LIFE, and was later elected a Vice President of Time Inc. In 1959, he joined the Board of Directors at Time Inc. He subsequently became Chairman of the Board and eventually, Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Heiskell has also been closely involved with a large number of civic, cultural and educational organizations. He was a founder and Co-Chair of the National Urban Coalition, a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Urban Coalition, and former Chairman of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. Currently, Mr. Heiskell is an Honorary Trustee of the Brookings Institution, a member of the Board of Directors of the Enterprise Foundation, and Vice Chairman of the Lincoln Center Theater; he is also affiliated with a number of other organizations.
Mr. Heiskell was born in Naples, Italy, and educated in Germany, Switzerland and France. He has been a Trustee of the Institute of International Education since 1990 and is a member of the Executive Committee.
http://www.iie.org/Content/NavigationMenu/About_IIE/Board_Of_Trustees/aheisk.htm
Chairman, Hellman and Friedman LLC
Warren Hellman is chairman of Hellman & Friedman LLC. He co-founded the San Francisco-based private equity firm in 1984 and is currently investing its fourth fund with $2.2 billion of committed capital. Prior to serving as chairman at Hellman & Friedman, Mr. Hellman was a general partner at Hellman, Ferri Investment Associates, a Boston-based venture capital firm, and later a general partner at Matrix Partners, Hellman, Ferri's successor. Prior to Hellman, Ferri, Mr. Hellman served as president and director at Lehman Brothers and headed their Investment Banking Division.
Mr. Hellman is director of Levi Strauss & Co., The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., D.N.& E. Walter & Co., and WPP Group plc. He serves as chairman of The San Francisco Foundation, and is a member of the advisory board of the Walter A. Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley, a trustee of the UC Berkeley Foundation, and trustee emeritus of The Brookings Institution. He is a director of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.
Senior Partner, Mayer, Brown & Platt
Employment
Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw, Chicago, Partner, 1967 to date; Senior Partner, 1998; Chairman, Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw management committee, 1984-1998 Isham, Lincoln & Beale, Chicago, 1956-1966
Education
Northwestern University, LL.B., 1956; Order of the Coif; Associate Editor, Northwestern University Law Review Northwestern University, B.S.L., 1954 University of Illinois, 1951-1953
Professional Activities
Director of Northern Trust Corporation and The Northern Trust Company Brambles USA, Inc. Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream, Inc. TC PipeLines GP, Inc. Chicago Stock Exchange, 1993-2000 Zenith Electronics Corporation, 1995-1999 The Horsham Corporation, 1990-1996 Alberta Natural Gas Company, 1993-1996 Southern Pacific Transportation Co., 1987-1988
Civic Activities
The Brookings Institution, Emeritus Trustee Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, Trustee Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago Financial Research and Advisory Committee of the City of Chicago Museum of Contemporary Art, Trustee University of Chicago Law School Visiting Committee Aspen Institute, Trustee, 1986-1992 Citizens Committee on the Juvenile Court of Cook County, Chairman, 1968-1983 Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, Director, 1991-1992 The Learned Hand Human Relations Award of the American Jewish Committee, Recipient, 1989 Legal Assistance Foundation of Chicago, President, 1973-1975 Northwestern University Law School Visiting Committee, Chairman, 1989-1992 United Charities of Chicago, Director, 1967-1972 University of Chicago Hospitals, Trustee, 1982-1988
Memberships
American Bar Association, Chairman, Section of Public Utility Law, 1983-1984 American Law Institute Chicago Bar Association Chicago Council of Lawyers
Chairman and CEO, Roy M. Huffington, Inc.
Roy M. Huffington is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Roy M. Huffington, Inc., an independent, international oil and gas company located in Houston, Texas.
He received a B.S. degree from Southern Mathodist University and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Geology from Harvard University. He subsequently served from Ensign to Lt. Commander with the United States Navy from 1942 to 1945, receiving a Bronze Star with Combat V, and Presidential Unit Citation for his participation with Task Force 58 in the Pacific.
In 1946, he joined Humble Oil & Refining Company as a field geologist, leaving in 1956 to set up his own oil and gas exploration company.
Roy M. Huffington, Inc., as an independent, worked mostly in Texas and Louisiana until 1968, when Mr. Huffington secured a production-sharing contract with the Government of Indonesia. Discoveries in East Kalimantan led to the development of a multi-billion dollar LNG export project between Indonesia and Japan. In 1985, he received the Gold Medallion Oil Pioneer Award from the Government of Indonesia for meritorious services to the oil and gas industry in that country. In 1990, the overseas properties of the company were sold to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation of Taiwan.
After setting up his own company, he decided to expand his business abroad, especially in Iran, Japan, and Indonesia. His company was most successful in Indonesia and opened up the country to foreign investors. He commended the Indonesian government for having the foresight to invite foreign companies to invest in their country by negotiating and honoring the contracts. His advice to all countries seeking foreign investors was to first negotiate the best possible deal for both parties, as a business agreement is successful only when both parties benefit equally. The second step towards seeking economic influx is to draw up contracts and honor them.
From 1990 to 1993, Mr. Huffington served as the U.S. Ambassador to Austria, where he worked to open up business opportunities between the newly-accessible Eastern Block countries and their Western counterparts. He sponsered two annual, highly-successful business seminars in Vienna and was awarded the 1992 Ambassador of the Year award form the Diplomatic Club of Vienna. In 1997, he was awarded the "Grosse Goldene Ehrenzeichen" ("Grand Decoration of Honor in Gold") for services to the Republic of Austria.
Among the honors and awards Mr. Huffington has received from business, civic, professional and academic groups, are the Alumni Achievment Award from the Harward Business School and the Distinguished Alumnus Award and a Doctorate of Humane Letters from Southern Methodist University. He has also been elected into the Texas Business Hall of Fame.
Mr. Huffington has published geological articles in various professional journals. He has also been a director or trustee of numerous professional, civic, cultural, medical and educational institutions troughout the United States and in several other parts of the world.
He and his wife, Phyllis, live in Houston.
http://www.aaf-online.org/huffingt.htm
He is a member of the Indonesian American Business Association.
Senior Managing Director, Lazard Frères & Co. LLC
Of Counsel, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP
President, Brookside Company
He is President of Brookside Company, Easton, Maryland. In 1969, Mr. Kerr founded Kerr Consolidated, Inc., which was sold in 1996. In 1969, Mr. Kerr co-founded the Resource Analysis and Management Group and remained its senior partner until 1982. From 1967 to 1969, he was Vice President of Kerr-McGee Chemical Corporation. From 1951 through 1967, Mr. Kerr worked for Kerr-McGee Corporation as a geologist and land manager. Mr. Kerr has served as chairman of the Investment Committee for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is a life member of the Corporation (Board of Trustees) of that university. He served as a director of Kerr-McGee Corporation from 1957 to 1981. Mr. Kerr currently is a trustee of the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., and has been an associate director since 1987 of Aven Gas & Oil, Inc., an oil and gas property management company located in Oklahoma City. He is also a director of CheapSake Energy. Mr. Kerr
graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1951.
He is a member of the MIT Corporation and serves on the board of the College of Engineering at the University of Oklahoma.
Retired CEO, Aetna Life & Casualty Co.
1927 - Born in Cleveland, Ohio.
1945 - Joins the Navy.
1948 - Graduates from Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, summa cum laude.
1951 - Graduates Harvard Law School, magna cum laude, and joins Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, a Cleveland law firm.
1969 - Is named general counsel, U.S. Department of Commerce.
1971 - Becomes undersecretary, U.S. Department of Commerce.
1973 - Is appointed the counsellor to president for Community Development; becomes secretary, Housing & Urban Development.
1975 - Is named director, Office of Management and Budget.
1977 - Rejoins Jones, Day, Reavies & Pogue; joins Aetna's board of directors.
1979 - Serves as general counsel to the Republican National Committee.
1984 - Becomes Aetna's chairman.
1992 - Retires from Aetna.
1997 - Senior advisor at Lazard Freres & Co., LLC.
Selected by Clinton for The President's Commission to Study Capital Budgeting
President, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
Jessica Tuchman Mathews is President of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, an international research organization founded in 1910, with offices in Washington, D.C., and Moscow. Her career includes posts in the executive and legislative branches of government, in management and research in the nonprofit arena and in journalism.
From 1977-79, she was Director of the Office of Global Issues on the staff of the National Security Council in the White House. Her responsibilities included nuclear proliferation, conventional arms sales policy, chemical and biological warfare and human rights. In 1993, she returned to government as Deputy to the Undersecretary of State for Global Affairs.
From 1980-82, she was a member of the Editorial Board of The Washington Post, where she covered energy, environment, science, technology, arms control, health and other issues.
From 1982-93, she served as founding Vice President and Director of Research ('82-'89) for the World Resources Institute, an internationally known center for policy research on domestic and international environmental and natural resource management issues. From 1993-1997, she was a Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, also serving as Acting Director of the Council's Washington program.
From 1991-1997, she authored a weekly column for the Washington Post which appeared nationwide and in the International Herald Tribune. She has also written for the New York Times, Foreign Affairs, and other scientific and foreign policy journals. She co-edited The Earth as Transformed by Human Action: Global and Regional Changes in the Biosphere Over the Past 300 Years (1990) and co-authored and edited Preserving the Global Environment: The Challenge of Shared Leadership (1991). Her seminal 1997 Foreign Affairs article, "Power Shift," was chosen by the editors as one of the most influential in the journal's 75 years.
Dr. Mathews came to Washington in 1973 as a Congressional Science Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). She continued in Congress on the staff of the Energy and Environment Subcommittee of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. In 1975-76, she served as National Issues Director in Congressman Morris Udalls presidential campaign, the highest ranking woman in any presidential campaign that year.
She is currently a trustee of the Brookings Institution; the Rockefeller Foundation; The Century Foundation; the Inter-American Dialogue; and the Surface Transportation Policy Project, a national coalition of groups working on domestic transportation issues, of which she was a co-founder. She has previously served on the boards of Radcliffe College, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, and the Joyce Foundation among others. She is a member of the Environmental Advisory Committee of Air Products Corporation, a Fortune 200 company, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission, and the International Advisory Board of the Center for International Development at Harvard University.
She graduated magna cum laude from Radcliffe College in 1967, and received a Ph.D. in molecular biology from the California Institute of Technology in 1973. She appears regularly on radio and television and was the subject of one of the most heavily watched of Bill Moyers' World of Ideas series. Mathews was born in New York City in 1946 and raised there, graduating from the Brearley School. She has two children
http://www.ceip.org/people/mathews.htm
Retired Chairman and CEO, Fannie Mae
Mr. Maxwell was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federal National Mortgage Association from 1981 until his retirement in 1991. Mr. Maxwell is a Director of Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd., Potomac Electric Power Company (PEPCO), SunAmerica Inc. and Corporate Partners, L.P.
He is a life trustee of the Urban Institute, serves on the board for The Council for Excellence in Government
Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University
Donald F. McHenry served as Ambassador and U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations from September 1979 until January 20, 1981. As chief United States representative to the United Nations, he also served as a member of President Carter's Cabinet. At the time of his appointment, Ambassador McHenry was Ambassador and U.S. Deputy Representative to the U.N. Security Council, a position to which he was appointed in March 1977.
Ambassador McHenry is currently University Research Professor of Diplomacy and International Affairs at Georgetown University and president of the IRC Group, an international consulting firm.
Ambassador McHenry has studied, taught and worked primarily in the fields of foreign policy and international law and organizations. He joined the U.S. Department of State in 1963 and served eight years in various positions related to U.S. foreign policy. In 1966 he received the Department's Superior Honor Award. In 1971, while on leave from the Department, he was a Guest Scholar at the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. and an International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, New York. In 1973, after leaving the State Department, he joined the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, D.C. as a project director in Humanitarian Policy Studies. In 1976 he served as a member of President Carter's transition staff at the State Department before joining the U.S. Mission to the U.N.
During his career, Ambassador McHenry represented the United States in a number of international fora and as the U.S. negotiator on the question of Namibia.
Ambassador McHenry has taught at Southern Illinois, Howard, American and Georgetown Universities. He is the author of Micronesia: Trust Betrayed (Carnegie Endowment, 1975) and numerous articles published in professional journals and newspapers.
Ambassador McHenry is a Director of the International Paper Company, the Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston Corporation, SmithKline Beecham p.l.c., and AT&T. He is on the Board of Directors of a number of non- governmental organizations, including the Institute for International Economics and the American Ditchley Foundation. He serves as a Trustee of the Mayo Foundation, the Brookings Institution and Columbia University, and as Chairman of the Board of Africare. He is a member of the Board of Governors of the United Nations Association of the United States of America and the Middle East Institute, and he is an Editorial Board member of Foreign Policy magazine. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Ambassador McHenry is a former member of the Board of Governors of the American Stock Exchange, the Board of Directors of the Council on Foreign Relations (where he is a member), and the Board of Trustees of the Ford Foundation, the Johnson Foundation, the National Institute for Dispute Resolution, Mount Holyoke College and the World Peace Foundation.
Ambassador McHenry was born in St. Louis, Missouri in 1936 and grew up in East St. Louis, Illinois. He graduated in 1957 from Illinois State University and two years later received a Master's Degree from Southern Illinois University with majors in International affairs and in rhetoric and public address. He has done post- graduate work at Georgetown University. He is the father of one son and two daughters.
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/amassembly/bios/mchenry.htm
Former President
The World Bank
In 1943 Mr. McNamara was commissioned a Captain in the Air Force and served in the UK, India, China and the Pacific. He was awarded the Legion of Merit and promoted to Lieutenant Colonel before going on inactive duty in April 1946. Upon his discharge from the Air Force, Mr. McNamara joined the Ford Motor Company. In 1957 he was elected as Director of the company. On November 9, 1960 he was elected President. One year later, he began his service with the Kennedy administration.
During the Cuban Missile, Robert S. McNamara served as Secretary of Defense of the United States under President John F. Kennedy. He took the oath of office on January 21, 1961 and served as Secretary of Defense until March 1968.
In his new memoir, In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam (selected extracts), he says that the Vietnam War was a mistake and that he knew it all along. We should have gotten out in 1963, when fewer than 100 Americans had been killed. When he and other US policymakers took us to war, they "had not truly investigated what was essentially at stake."
Following his service as U.S. Defense Secretary, Mr. McNamara became President of the World Bank Group of Institutions in April 1968, retiring June 30, 1981. Since his retirement as President of the World Bank Group, Mr. McNamara has served on the boards of Royal Dutch Petroleum, the Bank of America, the Washington Post Company and Corning Incorporated, among others. He was a member of the International Advisory Committee of Goldman Sachs.
Mr. McNamara is associated with a number of non-profit associations: the Brookings Institution, the World Resources Institute, the Trilateral Commission, the Overseas Development Council, the Aspen Institute, the Global Coalition for Africa, World Food Prize Advisory Committee, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the United States-Japan Foundation, the National Council for Science and the Environment, the National Committee on United States China Relations, the International Irrigation Management Institute, focusing on the issues of population and development, world hunger, the environment, East-West relations and nuclear arms. He writes and speaks on these subjects as well as his vision of the United States in the 21st century.
Mr. McNamara is the recipient of honorary degrees from colleges and universities in the U.S. and abroad. He has received the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction, the Albert Einstein Peace Prize, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom from Want Medal, the American Assembly's Service to Democracy Award, the Dag Hammarskjold Honorary Medal, the Medal for Entrepreneurial Excellence from the Yale School of Organization and Management, the 1987 Olive Branch Award for the Outstanding Book on the Subject of World Peace, and the Onassis Foundation's Athinai Prize for Man and Mankind. He is the author of The Essence of Security; One Hundred Countries, Two Billion People; The McNamara Years at The World Bank; Blundering Into Disaster; Out of the Cold; and In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam.
Born in San Francisco, on June 9, 1916, Mr. McNamara graduated from the University of California in 1937 where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at the end of his sophomore year. In 1939 he received an MBA degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. In 1940 he returned to Harvard to become an instructor and later an Assistant Professor of Business Administration. Mr. McNamara married the former Margaret Craig on August 13, 1940 and has three children.
Interviews with McNamara: ONE, TWO; 1996 interview & video
Vice President, The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Pat McPherson began her career at Bryn Mawr as a graduate student in the Department of Philosophy, where she earned her Ph.D. She was appointed Assistant Dean of the College, after which she became the Associate Dean and Lecturer in Philosophy. A year later, she was named Dean of the Undergraduate College, Deputy to the President, and Associate Professor of Philosophy. She became Bryn Mawr's sixth President in 1978. Pat continues her service to higher education and liberal arts colleges with her association at The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation as vice president. She also serves on the board for the Clarke Center at Dickinson College.
Dean Emeritus, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University
The son of a midwestern farmer, Arjay Millers unusual name came from the initials of his fathers first and middle names, Rawley John. He graduated from UCLA in 1937 and spent three years in graduate school working part-time as a teaching assistant at UC Berkeley, before becoming an economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. After three years in the Air Force Miller joined Ford Motor Co. in 1946.
BS, University of California, Los Angeles, 1937; LLD (Hon.): University of California, Los Angeles, Whitman College, University of Nebraska, Ripon College, Washington University (St. Louis). Teaching Fellow, University of California at Berkeley, 1938-41; economist, Federal Reserve Bank, San Francisco, 1941-43; Army Air Force, 1943-46; Ford Motor Co., 1947-69, various assignments, primarily in finance, before assuming presidency in 1963; Chairman: Automobile Manufacturers Association, 1968-69; Urban Institute, 1968-73 (of which he is a life trustee). At Stanford since 1969. Emeritus since 1979. As Dean of the Business School, former Ford Motor Company president Arjay Miller oversaw a period of enormous change. "Private business has been able to satisfy quite well the private demand for goods such as automobiles and television sets," Miller said in his first visit to the School in 1969. "The problems facing our society today are what I call public goods." Miller quickly set about to establish a program that would train managers for the public sector as well as teach potential private sector managers about public needs. The Public Management Program produced its first graduates in 1973. Under Miller, the first women and ethnic minorities were appointed to the faculty. Faculty grew from 73 to 84 and MBA enrollment was held to a modest increase from 550 to 600. During the 10 years of Miller's deanship, the endowment rose from $6.4 million to $24 million. Since retirement, Miller has remained close to the Business School. He presents certificates to the top 10 percent of the graduating MBA class (the "Arjay Miller Scholars") at commencement. Each year, the man who once described himself as "just an old bookkeeper," hosts the Arjay Miller Lecture traditionally the chief financial officer of a major corporation. Miller's contribution to the School is a lasting one.
Along with William R. Hewlett and Roger W. Heyns, he was a co-founder of PPIC, served as the chairman of its board of directors from 1995 to 1998, and remains a member of the board. He is an honorary trustee of the Brookings Institution; a former board member of the Mellon Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, and SRI International; and a former chairman of the Bay Area Council. Over the years, Miller served on the boards of 10 corporations, including Ford, the Washington Post Company, Wells Fargo Bank, Levi Strauss & Company, and Burlington Northern.
Partner, Upstart Partners
Constance Berry Newman was sworn in on Nov. 27, 2001, as assistant administrator for Africa of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). USAID is the government agency that administers economic and humanitarian assistance worldwide.
Newman has extensive experience managing public and private organizations as well as international experience throughout the world. Before joining USAID, Newman served from 1998 to 2001 as a board member of the International Republican Institute, which conducts programs that promote democracy and strengthen free markets and rule of law. In that capacity, she participated in election and other monitoring activities in Nigeria, Ukraine, Russia and China. She also has served as a private consultant to South African leaders on affirmative action and diversity and to the World Bank as liaison to representatives of the South African National Congress, Pan-Africanist Congress, Inkatha, and the National Union of Mineworkers. In 1987 and 1988 she served as a Cooperative Housing Foundation consultant on a World Bank project in Lesotho to merge existing housing corporations into one that was structured to receive World Bank funding.
From 1992 to 2000, Newman was under secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. She was director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management from 1989 to 1992. She also served from 1994 to 2000 as board member and vice chair of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.
Newman's previous government service also includes assistant secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development; commissioner and vice chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission; and VISTA director. In the private sector, she was president of the Institute for American Business and co-founder and president of the Newman and Hermanson Company.
Among her awards are the Smithsonian Institution Joseph Henry Medal (2000); Washingtonian of the Year (1998); Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service (1985); and Doctor of Laws, Bates College (1972), Amherst College (1980), and Central State University (1991).
She has a bachelor's degree in political science from Bates College in Maine and a bachelor's in law from the University of Minnesota School of Law.
President, The Brown Foundation, Inc.
Houston based philantropist who sits on the boards of many charitable organisations as well as acting as President of The Brown Foundation.
International Lawyer
International lawyer, Paris, London and New York Bars; Trustee, Brookings Institution, Washington; President, Yad Vashem, France; Formerly: member, John F. Kennedy's Task Force on Foreign Economic Policy; Advisor to the State Department and various Congressional Committees; Author: Coexistence and Commerce; Of Blood and Hope. Member of the Forum 21 Advisory Board
President, J.W. Redmond & Company
President, Robinson & Associates, Inc., DYNA YACHT, Inc., and MANGIA ONDA Co.
Charles W. Robinson is president of Robinson & Associates, Inc., a venture capital company formed in 1980 in Santa Fe, New Mexico, for real estate development. He also is president of Dyna Yacht Inc., a company that is developing new technology for competitive sailboats; and of Mangia Onda Co., which is developing innovative designs for powerboat hulls to suppress wave generation. Both Dyna Yacht and Mangia Onda are based in San Diego.
He served for five years in the U.S. Navy during WW II as an engineering officer. Later, as president of an international iron ore shipping and mining company, he sought to reduce the cost of ocean transportation as a means of expanding his markets for iron ore in Japan and Europe. He pioneered the design and construction of the largest bulk cargo ships as well as the development of combination ore-oil carriers. He also designed and constructed the Panamax, the largest ship to transit the Panama Canal--and the first mineral tankers to transport iron ore in slurry form.
Mr. Robinson began his business career in 1952 with Marcona Corporation, an inter-national mining and ocean shipping company. As president, he pioneered the design and construction of the largest and most efficient ocean carriers for economical transport of the company's iron ore production.
In 1974, Mr. Robinson became Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and later served as Deputy Secretary of State with Henry Kissinger. In 1977, he became senior managing partner of Kuhn Loeb, investment bankers. From 1978 until 1980, Mr. Robinson served as vice chairman of Blyth Eastman Dillon.
Mr. Robinson is a trustee of the Brookings Institution and of the President's Circle of the National Academy of Science. He also is a director of two public companies. He sits on the advisory council of Stanford Business School.
A native of California, he obtained his AB in economics from the University of California, Berkeley, and his MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Mr. Robinson and his wife, Mara, have three children and five grandchildren.
General Partner, RRE Ventures
James D. Robinson III is a director of Claxson. Mr. Robinson is co-founder, chairman and CEO of RRE Investors, LLC and general partner of RRE Ventures GP II,LLC, private information technology venture investment firms, and chairman of Violy, Byorum &Partners Holdings. Mr. Robinson served as chairman and chief executive officer of American Express Company from 1977 to 1993.
Prior to that, Mr. Robinson held several executive positions within American Express, was a general partner with White Weld &Co. and served as assistant to the chairman and president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company.
Mr. Robinson is a director of the Coca-Cola Company, a director of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a director of First Data Corporation, a director of Novell, a director of Cambridge Technology Partners, a director of Sunbeam Corporation, a director of Screaming Media Inc and a director of ViaFone. Mr. Robinson is a limited partner and advisor to International Equity Partners and serves as a director of Ibero-American Media Partners, director of Qpass, director of NetVendor Systems, Inc., director of Returns OnLine, Inc., director of Apriva, Achex, Inc., director of e- Duction,Inc., director of eOneGlobal and director of ViaFone as well as an advisor to IntraLinks.
Mr. Robinson is a member of the Business Council and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Mr.Robinson also is Honorary Co- Chairman of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, an Honorary Trustee of the Brookings Institution and Chairman Emeritus of the World Travel and Tourism Council. Mr.Robinson served as Co- Chairman of the Business Roundtable and as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations.
Mr.Robinson holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology and a Master of Business Administration degree from Harvard University
President and Chairman, B.F. Saul Company
Company: B.F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust Position: Chairman and CEO Salary: $1,562,320 Bonus: $1,550,000 Options: $0 Total Compensation: $3,497,051
Net Worth: $800 mil
Career Highlights: Saul has been president and chairman of the board of directors since 1969. He has also been chairman of the board of trustees of the B.F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust since 1969 and a trustee since 1964. Saul has been the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Chevy Chase Bank since 1969. He is Chairman & CEO of Saul Centers. He is a member of National Gallery of Art trustees council. Saul is a trustee of the National Geographic Society, as well as of the Johns Hopkins Medicine board and an honorary trustee of the Brookings Institution.
Former Chairman, CIGNA Corporation
During his distinguished career, Ralph S. Saul served as CEO of the INA Corp. from 1975 to 1982. After the merger of INA and Connecticut General, Mr. Saul was Co-CEO and Chairman of the Board of CIGNA Corp. from March, 1982 until April, 1984. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of CIGNA Corp. until April, 1989. Prior to joining INA, he was Co-CEO and Chairman of the Management Committee of the First Boston Corporation, a post he assumed in 1971. Until recently he was also Chairman of the Board of Horace Mann.
He is the Chairman of the Executive Committee of Knox & Co. He currently serves as a trustee of the Brookings Institute, a director of Philidelphia Academies Inc, an honorary trustee of the Committee for Economic Development, the Regulatory Advisory Committee to The New York Stock Exchange Board of Directors, and the Advisory Board of the Wharton Entrepreneurial Center. Mr. Saul was of CIGNA Corp. from 1982 to 1985 and was President of the American Stock Exchange from 1966 to 1971. During his career, Mr. Saul has served on the boards of, among others, AMF Inc., the New York Times, Fidelity Group of Funds, the New York Stock Exchange, Paine Webber & Co., Pennwalt Corp., Saint Gobain Corp., Sun Company and the Suez Group.
Chairman and CEO, Lucent Technologies
Henry Schacht is chairman of Lucent Technologies.
He returned to Lucent in October 2000 as chairman and CEO, having most recently served as chairman of the Lucent spinoff, Avaya since March. Schacht stepped down as chairman of Lucent Technologies in February 1998 and had served as the company's first chairman and CEO from October 1995 to October 1997, during its launch and first year as an independent company. He also served as a consultant to Lucent from February 1998 until February 1999, and has been a Managing Director and Senior Advisor of Warburg Pincus since February 1999.
He began his business career at the American Brake Shoe Company in 1956. Following service in the U.S. Navy and graduate school, he joined the Irwin Management Company, an investment firm in Columbus, Indiana in 1962.
In 1964, Schacht joined Cummins Engine Company, Inc., in Columbus as vice president -- Finance. He moved up the ranks at Cummins, holding key positions in Cummins International and later domestic operations before he assumed duties as president in 1969, when he was elected to the board of directors. In 1973, he became president and chief executive officer, and four years later became chairman and chief executive officer. He retired from Cummins in 1995, and was named chairman and CEO-designate of Lucent Technologies later that year.
Schacht currently serves on the board of directors of Agere Systems, director of Avaya, director of Johnson & Johnson Corp., director of Alcoa Inc., The New York Times Company and Knoll Inc. He is an honorary trustee of the Brookings Institution and a trustee emeritus of the Culver Educational Foundation. He is a member of The Business Council, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Management Executives' Society, and the U.S.-Japan Business Council. In addition, he is a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, a Fellow of the Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of the American Philosophical Society.
Schacht served on the AT&T board of directors for 15 years until 1995 and on the CBS board of directors for 25 years until 1996. He was a trustee of the Ford Foundation from 1986-2000 serving as its Chairman from 1993-2000 as well as a trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation and the Urban Institute. He also served as a member of the President's Commission for National Agenda for the 80s, and of the Advisory Board - Yale School of Organization and Management. He was a founder of the Health Effects Institute and was a director of Clean Sites, Inc., a board member of the National Executive Service Corps and chairman of The Associates, Harvard Business School and a member of the Business Roundtable.
Schacht graduated from Yale University with a B.S. in 1956 and from Harvard University with an M.B.A. in 1962. In addition, he holds honorary degrees from DePauw University, Trinity College and Yale University.
He and his wife, Nancy, reside in New York City.
Private Investor
Appointed a director of CBS Sportsline in November 1997 and a director of j2 Global Comminications in the same year, Schulhof is a private investor. From June 1974 to January 1996, Mr. Schulhof held various positions at Sony Corporation of America, Inc. and most recently served as President and Chief Executive Officer from June 1993 to January 1996. Mr. Schulhof is a trustee a Brandeis University, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc ., New York University Medical Center and the Brookings Institute, serves on the Board of Directors of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a member of the Investment and Services Policy Advisory Committee to the U.S. Trade Representative.
Robert Brookings Smith, a descendant of Robert S. Brookings, who continues the tradition of his ancestors: giving generously to local institutions that advance the environment, the arts, and education. In addition to his career in investment banking, he served as a director for a variety of firms and nonprofit organizations. During the 1950s and 1960s, he helped lead the charge for the eradication of smog from downtown St. Louis. He has served on the board of trustees for the family-named think-tank, the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., for nearly a half-century and remains the sole family member associated with the institution.
He supports a number of civic, educational, and charitable causes, including Washington University scholarships, visual and performing arts programs, and neurological research. He is a University emeritus trustee, and he and his wife are Life Eliot Patrons of the Eliot Society.
John C. Whitehead was born in Evanston, Illinois, on April 2, 1922, the son of Eugene C. and Winifred K. Whitehead. In 1924, his family moved to New Jersey, where he resided until 1985. He grew up in Montclair, attended public schools there and graduated from Montclair High School in 1939.
Mr. Whitehead graduated from Haverford College in 1943 and served in the U.S. Navy, participating in the invasions of Normandy, Southern France, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. While still in the Navy, he was assigned as an instructor at the Harvard Business School. Mr. Whitehead received his M.B.A. degree, with distinction, from Harvard in 1947 and holds honorary degrees from Haverford College, Pace University, Rutgers University, Amherst College and Harvard University.
John began his professional career in 1947 at Goldman, Sachs & Co. where he remained for 38 years, retiring in 1984 as Co-Chairman and Senior Partner. He rose quickly within the company and was named Partner in 1956, and Senior Partner and Co-Chairman in 1976. During this time, Goldman Sachs became one of the world's preeminent investment banking and brokerage firms. In late 1984, Mr. Whitehead retired from Goldman Sachs as Co-Chairman and Senior Partner. He has served on the boards of numerous companies and as a Director of the New York Stock Exchange and Chairman of the Securities Industry Association.
In 1985, he was asked to become Deputy Secretary of State, number two to George Schultz. He was sworn into office in July, 1985, and served until January, 1989. During this period, he was Acting Secretary of State when Mr. Shultz was away from Washington and took a special interest in relations with Eastern Europe, the United Nations, and with various administrative reforms in the State Department. Following his four years of service, he was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Reagan.
Since returning from Washington in 1989, he has been active in a number of educational, civic and charitable organizations. He is Chairman of the Board of the International Rescue Committee, the United Nations Association of the U.S.A., the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, The Asia Society, International House and is Co- Chairman of the Greater New York Councils/Boy Scouts of America. He is a Director of the J. Paul Getty Trust, Rockefeller University, Lincoln Center Theater, Outward Bound and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission. In Washington, Mr. Whitehead is Chairman Emeritus of The Brookings Institution and Chairman of Youth for Understanding and a Trustee of the Trustees Council of the National Gallery of Art.
Effective December 31, 1997, Mr. Whitehead retired as Chairman of AEA Investors Inc., a special situation investment company.
Mr. Whitehead currently serves as Chairman of the Lower Manhattan Redevelopment Corporation, the entity charged with rebuilding Lower Manhattan following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Mr. Whitehead co-founded FSVC with the late Cyrus R. Vance in 1990 and he serves as Co-Chairman.
John accepted the Honorary Degree for his wife Nancy at the 1998 Convocation Ceremony and, joined President Catherine Dunn, BVM in presenting the inaugural Nancy Dickerson Whitehead Medallion of Excellence in the Field of Mass Communication.
President, The World Bank
James D. Wolfensohn, the World Bank Group's ninth president since 1946, established his career as an international investment banker with a parallel involvement in development issues and the global environment. On September 27, 1999, Mr. Wolfensohn was unanimously reappointed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors to a second five-year term as president beginning June 1, 2000. This will make him the third president in World Bank history to serve a second term.
Since becoming president on June 1, 1995, he has traveled to more than 100 countries to gain first-hand experience of the challenges facing the World Bank, and its 184 member countries. During his travels, Mr. Wolfensohn has not only visited development projects supported by the World Bank, but he has also met with the Bank's government clients as well as with representatives from business, labor, media, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), religious and women's groups, students and teachers. In the process he has taken the initiative in forming new strategic partnerships between the Bank and the governments it serves, the private sector, civil society, regional development banks and the UN.
In 1996, together with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Mr. Wolfensohn initiated the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) as the first comprehensive debt reduction program to address the needs of the world's poorest, most heavily indebted countries. Two years later, he led a global review of the HIPC Initiative, involving church groups, NGOs and representatives from creditor and HIPC countries, to assess its progress and identify ways to make the Initiative deeper, broader and faster. This review, and proposals by donor countries, culminated in September 1999 with an official endorsement at the World Bank/IMF Annual Meetings to double the amount of relief, make more countries eligible for assistance, and speed up the process.
In January 1999, Mr. Wolfensohn introduced the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), drawing on the lessons of development experience and putting into action the key concepts laid out in his Annual Meetings speeches of 1997 and 1998. Together with the Bank's partners, the CDF is now being piloted in 13 countries.
The CDF is meant to be a compass - not a blueprint. It is an approach that places the country front and center and focusing on building stronger partnerships to reduce poverty. It has been discussed with a wide variety of audiences including ministers and senior officials of both developed and developing countries, academics, civil society and the private sector, and other stakeholders. Also, a network of CDF focal points within multilateral, bilateral and UN agencies have been meeting regularly on various aspects of implementation.
The CDF is also meant to enhance the Strategic Compact, a major reform program in the Bank which Mr. Wolfensohn launched to improve the institution's effectiveness in fighting poverty, and to meet the needs of a rapidly changing global economy. A central feature of Mr. Wolfensohn's Strategic Compact is to incorporate key aspects of the information revolution into the Bank's work by transforming the institution into a Knowledge Bank.
Prior to joining the Bank, Mr. Wolfensohn was an international investment banker. His last position was as President and Chief Executive Officer of James D. Wolfensohn Inc, his own investment firm set up in 1981 to advise major US and international corporations. He relinquished his interests in the firm upon joining the World Bank.
Before setting up his own company, Mr. Wolfensohn held a series of senior positions in finance. He was Executive Partner of Salomon Brothers in New York and head of its investment banking department. He was Executive Deputy Chairman and Managing Director of Schroders Ltd in London, President of J. Henry Schroders Banking Corporation in New York, and Managing Director, Darling & Co of Australia.
Throughout his career, Mr. Wolfensohn has also closely involved himself in a wide range of cultural and volunteer activities, especially in the performing arts. In 1970, Mr. Wolfensohn became involved in New York's Carnegie Hall, first as a board member and later, from 1980 to 1991, as Chairman of the Board, during which time he led its successful effort to restore the landmark New York building. He is now Chairman Emeritus of Carnegie Hall. In 1990, Mr. Wolfensohn became Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC. On January 1, 1996, he was elected Chairman Emeritus.
Mr. Wolfensohn has been President of the International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis Societies, Director of the Business Council for Sustainable Development, and served both as Chairman of the Finance Committee and as Director of the Rockefeller Foundation and of the Population Council, and as member of the Board of Rockefeller University.
Currently, in addition to serving as President of the World Bank Group, he is Chairman of the Board of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. Mr. Wolfensohn is also an Honorary Trustee of the Brookings Institution and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Century Association in New York.
Born in Australia in December 1933, Mr. Wolfensohn is a naturalized US citizen. He holds a BA and LLB from the University of Sydney and an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business.
Before attending Harvard, he was a lawyer in the Australian law firm of Allen Allen & Hemsley. Mr. Wolfensohn served as an Officer in the Royal Australian Air Force, and was a member of the 1956 Australian Olympic Fencing Team. Mr. Wolfensohn is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Fellow of the American Philosophical Society. He has been the recipient of many awards for his volunteer work, including the first David Rockefeller Prize of the Museum of Modern Art in New York for his work for culture and the arts.
In May 1995 he was awarded an Honorary Knighthood by Queen Elizabeth II for his contribution to the arts. Mr. Wolfensohn has also been decorated by the Governments of Australia, France, Germany, Morocco, and Norway.
He and his wife, Elaine, an education specialist and a graduate of Wellesley, BA, and Columbia University, MA and MEd, have three children-Sara, Naomi, and Adam.
www.worldbank.org/president/bio.htm
President, Zilkha & Sons, Inc.
75 years old
Mr. Zilkha is Director of Heartland Partners LP: HTI (Class II) (since October, 1988); Chairman of the Board of the Company; Member of the executive committee and chairman of the compensation committee of HTI; President and Director (since 1956), Zilkha & Sons, Inc. (private investments), New York, New York. Mr. Zilkha also serves as a director of the Newhall Land and Farming Company.
Since 1956, Mr. Zilkha has been President of Zilkha & Sons, Inc., a private investment company. From 1991 to 1993 he was Chairman of Union Holdings, Inc., an industrial holding company. He is a director of the International Center for the Disabled and Heartland Technology, Inc. Mr. Zilkha is a trustee of The American Society of the French Legion of Honor, trustee emeritus of Wesleyan University and an honorary trustee of the Brookings Institution.
He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He is a senior Iraqi Jew in the States and a descendant of one of the most financially respected families in the Middle East, Geneva, USA and elsewhere.
