# The Black Sun and The Vril Society

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_vril07.htm

by Dee Finney
from GreatDreams Website
Italian version
The phenomenon of the eclipse has in mythology been connected with the upcoming end of the world and/or drastic change approaching. The Johns Revelation claims that an eclipse of 3 days will preceed the end of the world. Also the famous fortuneteller Nostradamus predicted an eclipse of 3 days introducing the end of all times. This way, the eclipse has taken the role of the herald of doom. (After all, who wants to stay around when the seven sigils are broken?) The same symbol can be found as a wall-painting at a military bunker from WWII at Hamburg below the statue of Bisbarck, thus it was concluded that the symbol of the Black Sun was incorporated into the ideas of some sort of "occultist" movement/ideology during the Third Reich. Although this speculation is somewhat reasonable, I have not been able to find substantial proof for verifying this rumor, since information about this subject is scarce and shady, and mostly overshadowed by prejudice against the "pseudo-cultist activities" of the political elite of that time and the SS especially, in case it is mentioned anywhere at all.
Yet it might bear some significance possibly that in the Germanic mythology, the wolf Fenriz is said to swallow the sun after being released at the beginning of the Wolf-Age, causing the sky to darken. The symbolism of the Black Sun is the subject to fear for the powers of stasis, since it indicates drastic and terminal change. How can it be applied in a sensible way by the Setian, or does it bear positive significance inherently already?
Peter Moon tells us in his book The Black Sun, on page 172,
"The Vril Society began around the same time as the Thule Society when Karl Haushofer founded the "Bruder des Lichts", which means Brothers of the Light. This organization is sometimes referred to at the Luminous Lodge. This group was eventually renamed the Vril-Gesellschaft as it rose in prominence and united three major societies: the Lords of the Black Stone, having emerged from the Teutonic Order in 1917 the Black Knights of the Thule Society the Black Sun, later identified as the elite of Heinrich himmlers SS Whereas the Thule Society ended up focusing primarily upon materialistic and political agendas, the Vril Society put its attention on the "Other Side." A local medium named Maria Orisc began getting messages in an unknown language and couldnt transcribe them, so began meeting with key members of these societies, along with another medium named Sigrun. Accordingly, the messages were coming from a being from the star Aldeberan, which has two planets which form the Sumeran Empire. In the Sumeran empire were two classes of people - the Aryan or Master race, and a subservient race which had developed in a negative fashion as a result of mutation from climatic changes.
"The Vril Society began around the same time as the Thule Society when Karl Haushofer founded the "Bruder des Lichts", which means Brothers of the Light. This organization is sometimes referred to at the Luminous Lodge.
This group was eventually renamed the Vril-Gesellschaft as it rose in prominence and united three major societies:
the Lords of the Black Stone, having emerged from the Teutonic Order in 1917 the Black Knights of the Thule Society the Black Sun, later identified as the elite of Heinrich himmlers SS
the Lords of the Black Stone, having emerged from the Teutonic Order in 1917
the Black Knights of the Thule Society
the Black Sun, later identified as the elite of Heinrich himmlers SS
Whereas the Thule Society ended up focusing primarily upon materialistic and political agendas, the Vril Society put its attention on the "Other Side." A local medium named Maria Orisc began getting messages in an unknown language and couldnt transcribe them, so began meeting with key members of these societies, along with another medium named Sigrun. Accordingly, the messages were coming from a being from the star Aldeberan, which has two planets which form the Sumeran Empire.
In the Sumeran empire were two classes of people - the Aryan or Master race, and a subservient race which had developed in a negative fashion as a result of mutation from climatic changes.
Peter Moon goes on to say,
"A half billion years ago, the Aryans (known as the Elohim or Elder Race) began to colonize our solar system as Aldebarans became uninhabitable. Marduk, existing in what is today the asteroid belt , was the first to be colonized, then Mars. When they came to Earth, these Aryans were known as the Sumerians.
(Note: Here we are coinciding with the work of Zechariah Sitchin)
Shambhala From some of the accounts available, Shambhala appears to have been a centre of spiritual enlightenment, very reminiscent of James Hilton's Shangri-La, but others say that it was a centre of occult power and arcane teaching.
Its leader was thought variously to be either an evil, tyrannical Sorcerer-King or a God-like Lord of The World.
We seem to be left with a choice as to which story we prefer to follow, and evidently which Path one desires to follow, too. The evil Left, or the good Right! Apparently there were two factions (as in Hyperborea), one of which followed the Golden Sun, and the other the Black Sun. (The Black Sun, incidentally, was as prominent an emblem of the Nazi mythos as was the Swastika!) According to Jean-Claude Frére, author of Nazisme et Sociétiés Secretès, the people of Hyperborea, after migrating to the Gobi Desert over 6000 years ago, founded a new centre, which they named Agartha. It became a great centre of world learning, and people flocked there from all over the world to enjoy its culture and civilization. However, a huge catastrophe supervened, and the earth's surface was devastated, but the realm of Agartha somehow survived, under the earth.
The legend continues to relate that, as with the original Hyperboreans, the Aryans now split into two factions:
one group heading north-west, hoping to return to their lost Hyperborea the second going south, where they founded a new secret centre under the Himalayas
one group heading north-west, hoping to return to their lost Hyperborea
the second going south, where they founded a new secret centre under the Himalayas
Jean-Claude Frére concludes:
The sons of the Outer Intelligences split into two groups, one following the Right Hand Path under the Wheel of The Golden Sun, the other the Left Hand Path under the Wheel of the Black Sun. The first preserved the centre of Agartha, that undefined place of contemplation, of the Good, and of the Vril force. The second supposedly created a new place of initiation at Shambhala, the city of violence in command of the elements and human masses, hastening the arrival of the charnel-house of time.
The sons of the Outer Intelligences split into two groups, one following the Right Hand Path under the Wheel of The Golden Sun, the other the Left Hand Path under the Wheel of the Black Sun.
The first preserved the centre of Agartha, that undefined place of contemplation, of the Good, and of the Vril force.
The second supposedly created a new place of initiation at Shambhala, the city of violence in command of the elements and human masses, hastening the arrival of the charnel-house of time.
According to Peter Moon, in his book The Black Sun, the ultimate concept of Thule is well represented in the myth of it as the capital city or center of Hyperborea, a word which literally means beyond the poles.
As it is beyond the poles, Hyperborea is positioned as being outside of this dimension. Thule, being in the center, is positioned as the source of all life on Earth. In Greek mythology, Pythagoras was taught sacred geometry by Apollo, a god who was identified as a resident of Hyporborea.
In Pythagorean teachings, the Earth itself geometrically unfolds from a void in the center. This void has been recognized by many ancient groups, including the Sumerians, as the Black Sun. In this sense, Thule is synonymous with this Black Sun. The word Swastika itself is means source amongst other definitions, and represents eternal cause or the fountain of creation. Accordingly, the Thule Society used the swastika symbol in their log to represent this idea. The Black Sun is an even more esoteric concept than that of Thule. Represented as the void of creation itself, it is the most senior archetype imaginable. Thus, this namesake was reserved for the elite of the Thule Society. The Black Sun was actually a secret society within the Thule Society.
It was senior to other societies.
The various ways in which the Swastika is depicted. It is revered by Hindu and ranks second only to OM. Today, the Swastika is known the world over not as a religious symbolism of the Hindus but as the Nazi emblem. Hitlers use of the Swastika on the flag of National-socialist Germany has besmirched the Swastika. But the Swastika continues to hold a religious significance for the Hindus. Like OM, the origins of Swastika are lost in the misty realms of the past and they can only be guessed by piecing together of the surviving clues. MORE
The Swastika Stone near Ilkley in West Yorkshire (England) The stone overlooks the valley of the River Wharfe, and is identical to some of the Camunnian Rose designs in Val Camonica, Italy - nine cup-marks in a cross shape, surrounded by a curved swastika- shaped groove. The Ilkley carving also has an appendage off the east arm - a cup surrounded by a curved hook-shaped groove. It is unique on the moor (which is covered in hundreds of cup-and-ring type carvings) although there is an unfinished swastika design (more angular, without cups) on the nearby Badger Stone. MORE
We find here the Aztecan calendar cycle of 52 uncorrected years represented in the form of a left rotating "swastika". The wheel starts with the year 1 Acatl, then turns left to 2 Tecpatl, 3 Calli, 4 Tochtli, 5 Acatl, etc. There is a good explanation of the whole composition in Duran and Seler. The question is, did the Hopi have a real writing system like the Aztecs and did they share the same calendar around the year 1000? Why do they not have a developed writing in the 17th century? MORE
This is from a Russian website
(click images to enlarge)
.
After World War II and the subsequent occupation of Germany, Allied military commanders were stunned to discover the penetrating depth of the Nazi regimes state secrets.
The worlds best intelligence organization was not the least of these revelations. Also discovered were massive and meticulous research file on secret societies, eugenics and other scientific pursuits that boggled the imagination of the Allied command. Even more spectacular was an entire web of underground rocket and flying saucer factories with an accompanying technology that still defies ordinary beliefs. A missing U-boat fleet possessing the most advanced submarine technology in the world left many wondering if the Nazis had escaped with yet more secrets or even with Hitler himself. Behind all of these mysteries was an even deeper element: a secret order known to initiates as the Order of the Black Sun, an organization so feared that it is now illegal to even print their symbols and insignia in modern Germany. The Black Sun probes deeper into the secrets of the Third Reich and its Tibetan contacts than any other previous attempt. The Black Sun is an adventure in consciousness that reveals a vast array of new information.
From the German flying saucer program to the SS mission into Tibet, we are led on a path that gives us the most insightful look ever into the Third Reich and the holy relics they sought in their ultimate quest: the Ark of the Covenant and the Holy Grail.
A Book Review from FSReview Website In the late 1800s, early 1900s, there were a variety of secret /occult societies in Germany, the main ones being, The Bavarian Illuminati, The Freemasons, The Rosicrucians, The Thule Society and The Vril Society.
Each of these five societies, although based in secrecy and mysticism, had its role and function. Of these five, two were especially noted for their occult connections, The Vril Society and its purely German offshoot The Thule Society.
The chief architect of the Thule Society was Baron Rudolph von Sebottendorff, sometimes referred to as Rudolf Glauer.
Sebottendorff/Glauer possessed a wide knowledge of Islamic Mysticism in all its aspects, encompassing the Dervish sects and particularly the cult of Sufism which differs markedly from mainstream Islamic teaching.
THULE
The name, Thule, refers to the capital of the legendary polar country Hyperborea.
Also referred to as Ultima Thule, it was supposedly the gateway to another world. Thule was therefore recognized as a place where humans could, by whatever means, leave the earth, it also reputedly stood at the portal of the Hollow Earth.
Interestingly, the major players in the 20th century, the USA and the Russian Federation have ELF - extra low frequency - transmitters sited in this area. These transmitters are supposedly used to communicate with submerged submarines, but worryingly, they broadcast these messages at brain-wave frequencies, around 18 to 20Hz. Traditionally, the Hyperboreans were in contact with extraterrestrials or alien cultures, in some versions of this, there was interbreeding. In common with the legendary inhabitants of Atlantis, they engaged in war with neighbouring civilizations.
This escalated into the use of atomic weapons, resulting in a pyrrhic victory for the Hyperboreans, who, as well as defeating their enemies, virtually destroyed themselves in the process. In common with radiation damage in recent times, the surviving Hyperboreans were soon faced with the prospect of mutated and otherwise damaged offspring.
Showing remarkable resolve, those who had not sustained any apparent genetic damage, banded together and effectively removed themselves from the gene pool, a variety of self imposed quarantine.
Any damaged offspring from this group, were neutered. This early example of eugenics was practiced until they were sure that any defective genes had been bred out. The other mutated group eventually died out, whether they were assisted in this, is open to debate. This may seem like, and indeed is, a harsh, clinical line to adopt, but being faced with the extinction of their entire race, they had little other option. The descendants of this seminal Mother race were the Celts who, like the ripples on a pond, spread out, colonizing various northern areas of the planet. Scots, Irish, Basques, Spanish, Scandinavians, Icelanders and the Portuguese, all these peoples are of Celtic origin.
These disparate nationalities have one common genetic trait, a large percentage of RH-negative blood types, which, according to the beliefs of the Thule society was a characteristic of the Hyperboreans and their extraterrestrial associates.
In recent times, the majority of alien abductees are reportedly from RH negative blood groups, is this a possible indication that UFO cultures are tracking their cross-bred progeny?
Other races and peoples who posses a positive blood type were considered to be racially impure, as positive blood is thought to be contaminated by contact with the ape evolved strand of human DNA.
"In Germany at the turn of the century and particularly after WW I many secret societies developed. One of these groups was the Vril Society. "In 1917 four people met in a cafe in Vienna. There was one woman and three men. The woman was a spiritual medium. They met under a veil of mystery and secrecy. "They discussed secret revelations, the coming of the new age, the sphere of destiny, the magical violet black stone, and making contact with ancient peoples and distant worlds. "Their source of power was the Black Sun, an infinite beam of light which though invisible to the human eye is real and there. "The Vril emblem was the Black Sun - a secret philosophy thousand of years old provided the foundation on which the occult practitioners of the Third Reich would later build. The Black Sun symbol can be found in many Babylonian and Assyrian places of worship. They depicted the Black Sun - the godheads inner light in the form of a cross. This was not much different from the Germans Knights Cross. "With supposed channeled information from ETs, the Vril society built the Vril Machine. It was saucer shaped. It was supposedly an interdimensional or time travel machine. The first piloted flight was in 1934."
"In Germany at the turn of the century and particularly after WW I many secret societies developed. One of these groups was the Vril Society. "In 1917 four people met in a cafe in Vienna. There was one woman and three men. The woman was a spiritual medium. They met under a veil of mystery and secrecy.
"They discussed secret revelations, the coming of the new age, the sphere of destiny, the magical violet black stone, and making contact with ancient peoples and distant worlds. "Their source of power was the Black Sun, an infinite beam of light which though invisible to the human eye is real and there. "The Vril emblem was the Black Sun - a secret philosophy thousand of years old provided the foundation on which the occult practitioners of the Third Reich would later build. The Black Sun symbol can be found in many Babylonian and Assyrian places of worship. They depicted the Black Sun - the godheads inner light in the form of a cross. This was not much different from the Germans Knights Cross. "With supposed channeled information from ETs, the Vril society built the Vril Machine. It was saucer shaped. It was supposedly an interdimensional or time travel machine.
The first piloted flight was in 1934."
The Vril Force and the Black Sun
In Lyttons The Coming Race, the subterranean people use the Vril Force to operate and govern the world (a few children armed with vril-powered rods are said capable of exterminating a race of over 22 million threatening barbarians).
Served by robots and able to fly on vril-powered wings, the vegetarian Vril-ya are - by their own reckoning - racially and culturally superior to everyone else on Earth, above or below the ground.
At one point the narrator concludes (from linguistic evidence) that the Vril-ya are,
"descended from the same ancestors as the great Aryan family, from which in varied streams has flowed the dominant civilization of the world."
The Vril Force or Vril Energy was said to be derived from the Black Sun, a big ball of "Prima Materia" which supposedly exists in the center of the Earth, giving light to the Vril-ya and putting out radiation in the form of Vril. The Vril Society believed that Aryans were the actual biological ancestors of the Black Sun. This force was known to the ancients under many names, and it has been called Chi, Ojas, Vril, Astral Light, Odic Forces and Orgone.
In a discussion of the 28th degree of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry - called Knight of the Sun or Prince Adept - Albert Pike said,
"There is in nature one most potent force, by means whereof a single man, who could possess himself of it, and should know how to direct it, could revolutionize and change the face of the world."
This is the force that the Nazis and their inner occult circle were so desperately trying to unleash upon the world, for which the Vril Society had apparently groomed Hitler.
A manifestation of the "Great Work" promulgated by the Adepts of secret societies throughout the ages. The Vril Society latched on to a very old archetype already in the minds of alchemists and magicians, which was only re-interpreted, by Lytton, in light of that age of occult revival and scientific progress. The idea of mutation and transformation into a higher form of a "god-man" was envisioned, through the Vril-ya, in Buller-Lyttons The Coming Race.
Lytton, himself, was an initiate of the Rosicrucians and was well versed in the arcane-esoteric philosophies (and of course the greatest advances in the sciences of his day).
"Through his romantic works of fiction he expressed the conviction that there are beings endowed with superhuman powers. These beings will supplant us and bring about a formidable mutation in the elect of the human race." (J. Bergier)
"Through his romantic works of fiction he expressed the conviction that there are beings endowed with superhuman powers. These beings will supplant us and bring about a formidable mutation in the elect of the human race."
(J. Bergier)
This is where the philosophy turns dangerous.
The moment we speak of an elect and "illumined" class which is above the general populace, you inevitably encounter racism and classism - with fascism in due course.
"We must beware of this notion of a mutation," Bergier warns. "It crops up again with Hitler, and is not extinct today."
Bergier and Pauwels were writing in 1960, but today this philosophy is, sadly, once again in the forefront of popular culture.
The New World Order, so vehemently opposed, is under the direct influence and guidance of the New Age Movement. A hodgepodge of occult doctrines and dangerous socialism, which hides under a cover of "spiritual enlightenment."
Theosophy is considered the main foundation, and its founder, Mme. Blavatsky, was a great admirer of Lyttons.
In The Occult Conspiracy, the excellent researcher, Michael Howard, writes about the compatibility of the two philosophies:
Blavatsky had read Bulwer Lyttons novels and was very impressed by their occult content, especially Zanoni and the Last Days of Pompei. The latter was published in 1834 and dealt with the time between early Christianity and the Mysteries of Isis in Italy in the first century A.D. Blavatskys esotericism was virulently anti-Christian... The racial ideas of Madame Blavatsky, concerning root races and the emergence of a spiritually-developed type of human being in the Aquarian Age, were avidly accepted by the nineteenth-century German nationalists who mixed Theosophical occultism with anti-Semitism and the doctrine of the racial supremacy of the Aryan or Indo-European peoples.
Blavatsky had read Bulwer Lyttons novels and was very impressed by their occult content, especially Zanoni and the Last Days of Pompei. The latter was published in 1834 and dealt with the time between early Christianity and the Mysteries of Isis in Italy in the first century A.D. Blavatskys esotericism was virulently anti-Christian...
The racial ideas of Madame Blavatsky, concerning root races and the emergence of a spiritually-developed type of human being in the Aquarian Age, were avidly accepted by the nineteenth-century German nationalists who mixed Theosophical occultism with anti-Semitism and the doctrine of the racial supremacy of the Aryan or Indo-European peoples.
FROM: Isis Unveiled,
Volume I, page 550 This tradition of the Dragon and the Sun - occasionally replaced by the Moon - has awakened echoes in the remotest parts of the world. It may be accounted for with perfect readiness by the once universal heliolatrous religion. There was a time when Asia, Europe, Africa, and America were covered with the temples sacred to the sun and the dragon. The priests assumed the names of their deities, and thus the tradition spread like a network all over the globe: "Bel and the Dragon are uniformly coupled together, and the priest of the Ophite religion as uniformly assumed the name of his God." page 551 Kircher places the origin of the Ophite and heliolatrous worship, the shape of conical monuments and the obelisks, with the Egyptian Hermes Trismegistus. She goes on to say that one finds glimpses of this religion and its origins in the Books of Hermes, in magical art reproduced by the Quiches, and even in fragments of the Popul Vuh, which shows that the evidence of its origins and religious customs of the Mexicans, Peruvians, and other American races are nearly identical with those of the ancient Phoenicians, Babylonians and Egyptians. That said, she relates the religion from the Quiche Cosmogony, and compares it to some Apocrypha, with the Jewish sacred books and the kabalistic theories of creation, including the Book of Jasher, which traces it to the population of Ur of the Kaseans, where Magism flourished before the days of Abraham. page 549 "The divine beings, "brought down to the level of human nature," perform no feats or tricks more strange or incredible than the miraculous performance of Moses and of Pharaoh's magicians, while many of these are exactly similar in their nature.
Volume I, page 550
This tradition of the Dragon and the Sun - occasionally replaced by the Moon - has awakened echoes in the remotest parts of the world. It may be accounted for with perfect readiness by the once universal heliolatrous religion.
There was a time when Asia, Europe, Africa, and America were covered with the temples sacred to the sun and the dragon.
The priests assumed the names of their deities, and thus the tradition spread like a network all over the globe:
"Bel and the Dragon are uniformly coupled together, and the priest of the Ophite religion as uniformly assumed the name of his God." page 551
"Bel and the Dragon are uniformly coupled together, and the priest of the Ophite religion as uniformly assumed the name of his God."
page 551
Kircher places the origin of the Ophite and heliolatrous worship, the shape of conical monuments and the obelisks, with the Egyptian Hermes Trismegistus. She goes on to say that one finds glimpses of this religion and its origins in the Books of Hermes, in magical art reproduced by the Quiches, and even in fragments of the Popul Vuh, which shows that the evidence of its origins and religious customs of the Mexicans, Peruvians, and other American races are nearly identical with those of the ancient Phoenicians, Babylonians and Egyptians. That said, she relates the religion from the Quiche Cosmogony, and compares it to some Apocrypha, with the Jewish sacred books and the kabalistic theories of creation, including the Book of Jasher, which traces it to the population of Ur of the Kaseans, where Magism flourished before the days of Abraham. page 549
"The divine beings, "brought down to the level of human nature," perform no feats or tricks more strange or incredible than the miraculous performance of Moses and of Pharaoh's magicians, while many of these are exactly similar in their nature.
A woman who calls herself Whitefeather contacted us in the year 1999. She sent us drawings of a black sun (click above image).
Here is some of what she said:
Originally, when White Feather saw the Black Sun the only thing she could think of calling it was the Donut Sun. "I moved to Lexington, KY, May, 1973. I had been hired by some horse people in Hialeah, Florida, and they moved me up there to be Director of Research for their Horse Sales firm. Some time before that, I dont know if it was a year or more, I had a dream or a vision of finding myself in a "natural tree Cathedral", and one day at my new house in Lexington, the kids kicked a boll into a bunch of trees and I realized that I was in the Tree Cathedral - it was a circle of big fur trees. But anyway, that proved that I was supposed to move there. I have had psychic experiences ever since I was a child. Of the drawings I made of the "Black-ringed Sun," they were different shapes more or less that other people told me they had seen. What I saw, the light green and light yellow, translucent fluorescent "sun flares" was impossible for me to draw." Oddly she ended up having coffee with a Native American who had also seen the Black Sun. The person who served her donuts. She originally thought of the sun as The Eye in the Sky. {Eye of Ra, the sun God, perhaps!} After I met a man who was part Apache, who told me he had seen that sun when he thought he was dying in Vietnam, I decided to call it the "Life Saver Sun." It seems this sun is what the Indians call "the feathered Sun" and extremely sacred sign.
Originally, when White Feather saw the Black Sun the only thing she could think of calling it was the Donut Sun.
"I moved to Lexington, KY, May, 1973. I had been hired by some horse people in Hialeah, Florida, and they moved me up there to be Director of Research for their Horse Sales firm.
Some time before that, I dont know if it was a year or more, I had a dream or a vision of finding myself in a "natural tree Cathedral", and one day at my new house in Lexington, the kids kicked a boll into a bunch of trees and I realized that I was in the Tree Cathedral - it was a circle of big fur trees. But anyway, that proved that I was supposed to move there.
I have had psychic experiences ever since I was a child.
Of the drawings I made of the "Black-ringed Sun," they were different shapes more or less that other people told me they had seen. What I saw, the light green and light yellow, translucent fluorescent "sun flares" was impossible for me to draw."
Oddly she ended up having coffee with a Native American who had also seen the Black Sun. The person who served her donuts. She originally thought of the sun as The Eye in the Sky. {Eye of Ra, the sun God, perhaps!} After I met a man who was part Apache, who told me he had seen that sun when he thought he was dying in Vietnam, I decided to call it the "Life Saver Sun."
It seems this sun is what the Indians call "the feathered Sun" and extremely sacred sign.
From: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Traditional Symbols: The Feathered Sun - the Black Sun - as a Plains Indian symbol with stylized feathers pointing both inwards and outwards; inward towards the centre and outward to the circumference; it combines the symbols of the sun and the eagle and depicts the universe; the center; solar power; radiation of power; majesty.
Return to The Vril Society
Return to White (Solar) Brotherhood
Return to Dramatic Changes in Our Sun
