# The Orwellian Global State: The Next Stage Begins - George Bush Launches 
Second Term - But Will He Finish It?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_bush07.htm

By David Icke
from DavidIcke Website
Inauguration day 2005 marks the beginning of the next, and even more extreme, stage of the Orwellian global state. If anyone thought the first Bush term breached the realms of insanity, theyd better hold on and strap in. The new Bush cabinet is dominated to an even greater extent by the Illuminati neocon conspirators behind 9/11, the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq, and the removal of basic human freedoms.
The appointment of Condoleezza Rice has ensured that the State Department will be at one with the wingnuts at the Pentagon, and Stephen Hadley, the National Security Advisor, will advise whatever his close associates, Rice and Cheney, tell him to. In the new Attorney General, Alberto Gonzales, we have a man with a criminal disregard for human rights and civil liberties, and Michael Chertoff, the new head Homeland Security, played a leading role in drafting U.S. anti-terror laws in the wake of 9/11 that removed basic freedoms from the American people.
As we have seen with purges at the CIA, FBI and elsewhere, any personnel not on message throughout the government and its agencies have been, or are being, systematically removed from positions of influence. The prime centers of government, military, legal, and economic power are all occupied by extremists who either want to set the world ablaze or will unquestioningly serve those who do. There is no need to speculate on the agenda these sick people will follow in the next four years. It was detailed by the neocon front, the Project for the New American Century (PNAC), in its September 2000 document, Strategies, Forces and Resources For A New Century.
This proposed a blueprint for maintaining global U.S. pre-eminence, precluding the rise of a great power rival, and shaping the international security order in line with American principles and interests.
What it called this American grand strategy had to be advanced as far into the future as possible and it says that the U.S. must fight and decisively win multiple, simultaneous major theatre wars as a core mission. American armed forces were described as the cavalry on the new American frontier and these were the very policies pursued in the first Bush term.
The report also said:
Allies like the UK are the most effective and efficient means of exercising American global leadership.
Peacekeeping missions demand American political leadership rather than that of the United Nations.
Even should Saddam pass from the scene, bases in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait will remain permanently, despite domestic opposition in the Gulf regimes to the stationing of U.S. troops, as Iran may well prove as large a threat to U.S. interests as Iraq has.
North Korea, Libya, Syria and Iran are dangerous regimes and their existence justifies the creation of a "world-wide command-and-control system" [World Army]. It was a neocon speech writer, David Frum, who wrote Bushs State of the Union address which talked of an Axis of Evil - Iraq, Iran and North Korea.
China should be targeted for regime change and the report says it is time to increase the presence of American forces in Southeast Asia that may lead to American and allied power providing the spur to the process of democratization in China.
U.S. Space Forces should dominate space and it calls for the total control of cyberspace to prevent enemies [anyone exposing the agenda] using the Internet against the U.S.
The U.S. should consider the use of biological weapons and that new methods of attack - electronic, non-lethal, biological - will be more widely available ... combat likely will take place in new dimensions, in space, cyberspace, and perhaps the world of microbes ... advanced forms of biological warfare that can target specific genotypes may transform biological warfare from the realm of terror to a politically useful tool.
Note the language: specific genotypes - the biological targeting of specific races. Who said Hitler was dead? While following this fascist agenda, the same people had the nerve to say that Iraq must be invaded because it had biological weapons. Condoleezza Rice continued this neocon theme in the days before the inauguration when she talked about outposts of tyranny where the U.S. must help bring freedom. She named them as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Zimbabwe, Burma and Belarus.
Bushs inauguration speech, written for him by his neocon handlers, included lines such as:
The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands.
And:
The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world.
This is Orwellian-speak for we have other lands to conquer and key to their strategy is Iran and North Korea. The latter target is connected to the neocon plans for a conflict with China, which borders North Korea. When I say they, or the neocons, I dont mean America; I mean the forces that control America. The agenda has nothing to do with Americas best interests - look at the demolition of its economy and currency alone in the wake of its wars of conquest.
This is about using America to destroy America as a super power, both economically and militarily, because a super power and the planned world dictatorship do not go together. Thus, they want both America and China to destroy each other and come under the heel of the global fascist state. So, where do they go from here?
The Illuminati/neocon attacks of September 11th provided the excuse to invade the strategically-placed Afghanistan and this momentum led on to the invasion and occupation of Iraq.
But now they are bogged down and stretched to the limits militarily and, in the light of the lies about weapons of mass destruction, the U.S. and British governments have lost all credibility with vast numbers of their electorate.
For Bush or Blair to say they have to invade Iran because of weapons of mass destruction would be met with both hysterical laughter and massive opposition, especially in the UK where Blair and mendacity have become synonymous in the public mind. This leaves them with two options:
to drop the agenda for further conquest (no chance) or to orchestrate another 9/11-style problem that they could blame on their next target, almost certainly Iran
to drop the agenda for further conquest (no chance)
or to orchestrate another 9/11-style problem that they could blame on their next target, almost certainly Iran
I wouldnt expect them to wait too long to begin the process now Bush has launched his second term.
This problem could be nuclear or chemical attacks on the United States, maybe Britain and other targets, too. It could be any number of potential horrors (problem) to terrify the people (reaction) that would lead to retaliation against the fall-guy country (solution). This would allow them to justify to the gullible sections of the population the unleashing of shock and awe against yet another nation. It would also be the excuse to introduce the military draft. Bush and co denied before the election that they planned compulsory military service, but this was just another blatant lie. They are already at the limit of their capability using those in uniform by choice and without an enormous influx of battle-fodder they could not possibly fight and decisively win multiple, simultaneous major theatre wars as a core mission.
To expand into other regions they need the young and not-so-young of America to fight and die for their cause of human enslavement. That means the draft. One event that would pull all these strands together would be the assassination of President Bush and I certainly would not rule it out. It would not change the neocon policy if Bush were removed because hes just a front man for them and if he were killed the next president would be the neocon super-extremist, the brutal and horrific Dick Cheney.
The benefits of a Bush assassination would be enormous to the Illuminati and their neocons.
It would have such a massive effect on the American collective psyche that the draft could be introduced and other wars launched with a fraction of the opposition they would otherwise face. It is certainly a possibility in my view. (See Tales from the Time Loop for the detailed background to the neocons)
Return to The Bushes and The New World Order
Return to Big Brother Loves You
Return to New World Order
Return to David Icke
