# The Science of the Antahkarana - La Ciencia del Antakarana

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_lucytrust10a.htm

Education in the New Age
- Chapter V -
The Science of the Antahkarana
from USNISA Website
V. The Science of the Antahkarana
As a preparation for what students need to master, I would like to emphasize certain points by tabulating the information already given. The Science of the Antahkarana is not an easy one to learn because of the following points. These emphasized points must be accepted by students as a working hypothesis prior to all attempted work:
1. The Science of the Antahkarana is connected with the entire problem of energy, but peculiarly with the energy handled by the individual and with the forces by which the individual relates himself to other individuals or to groups. For the sake of clarity, we will give the name of ENERGY: to all forces pouring into the individual form from whatever direction and source. To these major energies, the names of "sutratma" or "life thread" or "silver cord" have frequently been given. FORCE: to all the energies which - after due manipulation and concentration - are projected by the individual or group in any direction and with many possible motives, some good and many selfish. 2. The Science of the Antahkarana, technically speaking and for group purpose, is especially the science of [144] light manifestation with its results of revelation and consequent changes. It should be remembered that: Light is substantial, and from the angle of the spirit is a sublimation or higher form of material matter. Light is also the quality or major characteristic of the soul in its own realm, and of the etheric body (a reflection of the soul eventually) in the three worlds of human evolution. The object of the science with which we are dealing is to fuse the lower and the upper lights, so that one light shines forth in physical manifestation and a synthesis of light is consequently brought about. Technically speaking, two light bodies exist - the vital or etheric body and the soul vehicle. One is the result of aeons of incarnating life and becomes in time a powerful repository of energies gathered out of a wide range of contacts, though conditioned by the ray type in its three aspects. The etheric body exists and is today functioning powerfully. The soul body is in process of being slowly constructed, and is that "house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens" to which the New Testament refers (II Cor. V, 1). It is interesting to note that the Old Testament refers to the etheric body (Ecc. XII, 6-7.) and its construction, and the New Testament deals with the building of the spiritual body. 3. The Science of the Antahkarana must be studied in three ways: Concretely and in relation to the etheric body, which is a substantial, tangible form, and is being so considered (though not as yet universally admitted) by modern science. [145] Egoically and in relation to the soul and to the "light body" through which the spiritual man must function in the world of souls, and which - when blended and fused with the etheric body - produces the manifestation of divinity upon earth to a greater or lesser degree, according to the extent of fusion and the conscious recognition by the individual of the attained fusion. Abstractly and in relation to knowledge-wisdom, which are two words used in relation to force and energy, and their use by the individual in his environment and contacts. Ponder on these words. You will realize how necessary it is that there should be some capacity for abstract thinking before the true implications of this new science can be understood. 4. The Science of the Antahkarana is concerned with the problem of the continuity of consciousness and with the problem of life and death. Keep these two themes clearly in your mind for they are basic and important. 5. The Science of the Antahkarana deals with the three fold thread which connects: The monad, the soul and the personality, linking all three periodical vehicles and unifying all seven principles. The triple personality and its environment in the three worlds of human enterprise, and later in the other two worlds (making five) of superhuman expression. The consciously creative man and the world of ideas. These he must contact and express through creative work, thus bridging with the light: Between the world of souls and the world of phenomena. [146] Between the realm of subjective beauty and reality and the outer tangible world of nature. Between himself and others. Between group and group. Later, when the divine Plan has become a reality to him, between the fourth kingdom (the human) and the fifth kingdom (the Kingdom of God). Finally, between humanity and the Hierarchy. 6. The Science of the Antahkarana is the science of the triple thread which exists from the very beginning of time and links individual man with his monadic source. The recognition of this thread and its use, consciously, as the Path and the means of ever expanding contacts, comes relatively late in the evolutionary process. The goal of all aspirants and disciples is to become aware of this stream of energy in its various diversifications and consciously to employ these energies in two ways: interiorly in self-unfoldment, and in the service of the plan for humanity.7. The Science of the Antahkarana teaches certain fundamental truths about the thread, some of which might be enumerated as follows: The life thread comes directly from the monad or the ONE. This thread is anchored in the heart during incarnation. There is the seat of life. The consciousness thread comes directly from the soul. It is anchored in the head. There is the seat of consciousness. The thread of creative activity is initiated and constructed by the human being. It is anchored, when sufficiently constructed, in the throat. This thread is an extension or synthesis of the two basic threads. [147] The creative thread itself is triple in nature. It is slowly constructed down the ages by the man. As he becomes truly alive, from the standpoint of intelligent awareness and the desire fully to express himself, the process is materially hastened. These three self-created lesser threads which constitute the third thread of the antahkarana extend eventually: From the physical body to the etheric body, passing from the heart to the spleen, and thence to the body of prana, the vital or etheric body, unites with force from the egoic will petals. From the etheric body to the astral body. This thread passes from the solar plexus to the heart and from thence to the astral body, picking up the energy of the thread mentioned above, unites with force from the love petals. From the astral body to the mental vehicle. This thread passes from the ajna center to the head center and from thence to the mind body, picking up the energy of the other two threads mentioned above, unites with the force from the knowledge petals. Though these three energies are woven into one thread finally, yet they remain distinct. It should be borne in mind that the soul body is constructed of pure white light, whilst the light out of which the etheric body is made is golden.8. The Science of the Antahkarana deals, therefore, with the entire incoming system of energy, with the processes of usage and transformation and fusion. It deals also with the outgoing energies and their relationship to the environment and is the basis of [148] the science of the force centers. The incoming and the outgoing energies constitute finally two great stations of energy, one characterized by power and the other by love, and all directed to the illumination of the individual and of humanity as a whole, through the medium of the Hierarchy composed of individuals. This is basically the Science of the Path.
1. The Science of the Antahkarana is connected with the entire problem of energy, but peculiarly with the energy handled by the individual and with the forces by which the individual relates himself to other individuals or to groups. For the sake of clarity, we will give the name of
ENERGY: to all forces pouring into the individual form from whatever direction and source. To these major energies, the names of "sutratma" or "life thread" or "silver cord" have frequently been given. FORCE: to all the energies which - after due manipulation and concentration - are projected by the individual or group in any direction and with many possible motives, some good and many selfish.
ENERGY: to all forces pouring into the individual form from whatever direction and source. To these major energies, the names of "sutratma" or "life thread" or "silver cord" have frequently been given.
FORCE: to all the energies which - after due manipulation and concentration - are projected by the individual or group in any direction and with many possible motives, some good and many selfish.
2. The Science of the Antahkarana, technically speaking and for group purpose, is especially the science of [144] light manifestation with its results of revelation and consequent changes. It should be remembered that:
Light is substantial, and from the angle of the spirit is a sublimation or higher form of material matter. Light is also the quality or major characteristic of the soul in its own realm, and of the etheric body (a reflection of the soul eventually) in the three worlds of human evolution. The object of the science with which we are dealing is to fuse the lower and the upper lights, so that one light shines forth in physical manifestation and a synthesis of light is consequently brought about. Technically speaking, two light bodies exist - the vital or etheric body and the soul vehicle. One is the result of aeons of incarnating life and becomes in time a powerful repository of energies gathered out of a wide range of contacts, though conditioned by the ray type in its three aspects. The etheric body exists and is today functioning powerfully. The soul body is in process of being slowly constructed, and is that "house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens" to which the New Testament refers (II Cor. V, 1). It is interesting to note that the Old Testament refers to the etheric body (Ecc. XII, 6-7.) and its construction, and the New Testament deals with the building of the spiritual body.
Light is substantial, and from the angle of the spirit is a sublimation or higher form of material matter.
Light is also the quality or major characteristic of the soul in its own realm, and of the etheric body (a reflection of the soul eventually) in the three worlds of human evolution. The object of the science with which we are dealing is to fuse the lower and the upper lights, so that one light shines forth in physical manifestation and a synthesis of light is consequently brought about.
Technically speaking, two light bodies exist - the vital or etheric body and the soul vehicle. One is the result of aeons of incarnating life and becomes in time a powerful repository of energies gathered out of a wide range of contacts, though conditioned by the ray type in its three aspects. The etheric body exists and is today functioning powerfully. The soul body is in process of being slowly constructed, and is that "house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens" to which the New Testament refers (II Cor. V, 1). It is interesting to note that the Old Testament refers to the etheric body (Ecc. XII, 6-7.) and its construction, and the New Testament deals with the building of the spiritual body.
3. The Science of the Antahkarana must be studied in three ways:
Concretely and in relation to the etheric body, which is a substantial, tangible form, and is being so considered (though not as yet universally admitted) by modern science. [145] Egoically and in relation to the soul and to the "light body" through which the spiritual man must function in the world of souls, and which - when blended and fused with the etheric body - produces the manifestation of divinity upon earth to a greater or lesser degree, according to the extent of fusion and the conscious recognition by the individual of the attained fusion. Abstractly and in relation to knowledge-wisdom, which are two words used in relation to force and energy, and their use by the individual in his environment and contacts. Ponder on these words. You will realize how necessary it is that there should be some capacity for abstract thinking before the true implications of this new science can be understood.
Concretely and in relation to the etheric body, which is a substantial, tangible form, and is being so considered (though not as yet universally admitted) by modern science. [145]
Egoically and in relation to the soul and to the "light body" through which the spiritual man must function in the world of souls, and which - when blended and fused with the etheric body - produces the manifestation of divinity upon earth to a greater or lesser degree, according to the extent of fusion and the conscious recognition by the individual of the attained fusion.
Abstractly and in relation to knowledge-wisdom, which are two words used in relation to force and energy, and their use by the individual in his environment and contacts. Ponder on these words. You will realize how necessary it is that there should be some capacity for abstract thinking before the true implications of this new science can be understood.
4. The Science of the Antahkarana is concerned with the problem of the continuity of consciousness and with the problem of life and death. Keep these two themes clearly in your mind for they are basic and important. 5. The Science of the Antahkarana deals with the three fold thread which connects:
The monad, the soul and the personality, linking all three periodical vehicles and unifying all seven principles. The triple personality and its environment in the three worlds of human enterprise, and later in the other two worlds (making five) of superhuman expression. The consciously creative man and the world of ideas. These he must contact and express through creative work, thus bridging with the light: Between the world of souls and the world of phenomena. [146] Between the realm of subjective beauty and reality and the outer tangible world of nature. Between himself and others. Between group and group. Later, when the divine Plan has become a reality to him, between the fourth kingdom (the human) and the fifth kingdom (the Kingdom of God). Finally, between humanity and the Hierarchy.
The monad, the soul and the personality, linking all three periodical vehicles and unifying all seven principles.
The triple personality and its environment in the three worlds of human enterprise, and later in the other two worlds (making five) of superhuman expression.
The consciously creative man and the world of ideas. These he must contact and express through creative work, thus bridging with the light:
Between the world of souls and the world of phenomena. [146] Between the realm of subjective beauty and reality and the outer tangible world of nature. Between himself and others. Between group and group. Later, when the divine Plan has become a reality to him, between the fourth kingdom (the human) and the fifth kingdom (the Kingdom of God). Finally, between humanity and the Hierarchy.
6. The Science of the Antahkarana is the science of the triple thread which exists from the very beginning of time and links individual man with his monadic source. The recognition of this thread and its use, consciously, as the Path and the means of ever expanding contacts, comes relatively late in the evolutionary process. The goal of all aspirants and disciples is to become aware of this stream of energy in its various diversifications and consciously to employ these energies in two ways: interiorly in self-unfoldment, and in the service of the plan for humanity.7. The Science of the Antahkarana teaches certain fundamental truths about the thread, some of which might be enumerated as follows:
The life thread comes directly from the monad or the ONE. This thread is anchored in the heart during incarnation. There is the seat of life. The consciousness thread comes directly from the soul. It is anchored in the head. There is the seat of consciousness. The thread of creative activity is initiated and constructed by the human being. It is anchored, when sufficiently constructed, in the throat. This thread is an extension or synthesis of the two basic threads. [147] The creative thread itself is triple in nature. It is slowly constructed down the ages by the man. As he becomes truly alive, from the standpoint of intelligent awareness and the desire fully to express himself, the process is materially hastened. These three self-created lesser threads which constitute the third thread of the antahkarana extend eventually: From the physical body to the etheric body, passing from the heart to the spleen, and thence to the body of prana, the vital or etheric body, unites with force from the egoic will petals. From the etheric body to the astral body. This thread passes from the solar plexus to the heart and from thence to the astral body, picking up the energy of the thread mentioned above, unites with force from the love petals. From the astral body to the mental vehicle. This thread passes from the ajna center to the head center and from thence to the mind body, picking up the energy of the other two threads mentioned above, unites with the force from the knowledge petals.
The life thread comes directly from the monad or the ONE. This thread is anchored in the heart during incarnation. There is the seat of life.
The consciousness thread comes directly from the soul. It is anchored in the head. There is the seat of consciousness.
The thread of creative activity is initiated and constructed by the human being. It is anchored, when sufficiently constructed, in the throat. This thread is an extension or synthesis of the two basic threads. [147]
The creative thread itself is triple in nature. It is slowly constructed down the ages by the man. As he becomes truly alive, from the standpoint of intelligent awareness and the desire fully to express himself, the process is materially hastened. These three self-created lesser threads which constitute the third thread of the antahkarana extend eventually:
From the physical body to the etheric body, passing from the heart to the spleen, and thence to the body of prana, the vital or etheric body, unites with force from the egoic will petals. From the etheric body to the astral body. This thread passes from the solar plexus to the heart and from thence to the astral body, picking up the energy of the thread mentioned above, unites with force from the love petals. From the astral body to the mental vehicle. This thread passes from the ajna center to the head center and from thence to the mind body, picking up the energy of the other two threads mentioned above, unites with the force from the knowledge petals.
From the physical body to the etheric body, passing from the heart to the spleen, and thence to the body of prana, the vital or etheric body, unites with force from the egoic will petals.
From the etheric body to the astral body. This thread passes from the solar plexus to the heart and from thence to the astral body, picking up the energy of the thread mentioned above, unites with force from the love petals.
From the astral body to the mental vehicle. This thread passes from the ajna center to the head center and from thence to the mind body, picking up the energy of the other two threads mentioned above, unites with the force from the knowledge petals.
Though these three energies are woven into one thread finally, yet they remain distinct. It should be borne in mind that the soul body is constructed of pure white light, whilst the light out of which the etheric body is made is golden.8. The Science of the Antahkarana deals, therefore, with the entire incoming system of energy, with the processes of usage and transformation and fusion. It deals also with the outgoing energies and their relationship to the environment and is the basis of [148] the science of the force centers. The incoming and the outgoing energies constitute finally two great stations of energy, one characterized by power and the other by love, and all directed to the illumination of the individual and of humanity as a whole, through the medium of the Hierarchy composed of individuals. This is basically the Science of the Path.
The antahkarana, therefore, is the thread of consciousness, of intelligence, and the responsive agent in all sentient reactions. The interesting point to bear in mind, and where we must now lay the emphasis, is that this thread of consciousness is evolved by the soul and not by the monad. The World Soul pours its gossamer thread of sentient consciousness into all forms, into all body cells and into all atoms. The human soul, the solar angel, repeats the process in relation to its shadow and reflection, the personality.
This is part of the creative work of the soul. But, in its turn, the human being has also to become creative in the mental sense of the term and must repeat the process, for in all points the microcosm resembles the macrocosm. Therefore, through the life thread, the soul creates and reproduces a personality through which to function. Then through the building of the antahkarana, the soul first of all develops sentiency down upon the physical plane, and later bridges the gap - through meditation and service - between the three mental aspects. It thus completes the creation of the path of return to the Center, which must parallel the path of outgoing. I have now completed my introductory presentation of the fundamentals which will in the future age dominate the educational systems. It was necessary for all of you - and for those who will later study these instructions anent the new education - to have some grasp of past foundational implications and basic tendencies and also some ideas, however [149] vague, of the line along which major changes can be expected to come. You can begin, therefore, to work intelligently and with as little loss of time as possible. It remains now to make the teaching which I have given practical in its implications. The New Education now must take the place of that which is old and which has proved so wrong that it could not prevent the universal holocaust which distinguished the years 1914-1945. It must be superseded. The next stage of human evolution will emerge as a result of the purificatory action of the World War. There are steps which humanity must take, and only a new type of education and a different attitude to the educational processes (imposed upon the very young of every nation) will enable mankind to take them. A new cycle of experience, of psychological development and of new educational processes is imminent. What I have given here and elsewhere on the Science of Meditation, of Service and anent the Antahkarana gives method, mode, promise and point to it all.
La Educación en la Nueva Era Por el Maestro Tibetano Djwhal Khul (Alice A. Bailey)
CAPITULO V La Ciencia del Antakarana Como preparación para lo que los estudiantes deben dominar, quisiera destacar ciertos puntos y clasificar la información ya dada. La Ciencia del Antakarana no es fácil de aprender, por las razones que expondré a continuación. Las razones que señale deberán ser aceptadas por los estudiantes como una hipótesis previa a todo trabajo que se trate de emprender.
1. La Ciencia del Antakarana está relacionada con todo el problema de la energía, pero especialmente con la energía manipulada por el individuo y las fuerzas mediante las cuales él se relaciona con otros individuos o grupos. Para mayor claridad, denominaremos: a. ENERGÍA: a todas las fuerzas que afluyen al individuo desde cualquier dirección y origen. A estas energías principales frecuentemente se les ha dado el nombre de "sutratma", "hilo de vida" o "cordón plateado". b. FUERZA: a todas las energías que -después de la debida manipulación y concentración- el individuo o el grupo proyecta hacia cualquier dirección y con muchos y posibles móviles, algunos buenos, pero la mayoría egoístas. 2. La Ciencia del Antakarana, hablando técnicamente y para el propósito grupal, es especialmente la ciencia de la manifestación de la luz, que da como resultado la revelación y los cambios consiguientes. Debe recordarse que: a. La luz es sustancial, y desde el punto de vista del espíritu es una sublimación o forma superior de sustancia material.b. La luz es también la cualidad o la característica principal del alma en su propio reino, y del cuerpo etérico (eventualmente un reflejo del alma) en los tres mundos de la evolución humana.c. La ciencia que estamos considerando tiene por objeto fusionar las luces inferiores con las superiores, de manera que brille una sola luz en la manifestación física, lográndose, por consiguiente, una síntesis de la luz.d. Hablando técnicamente, existen dos cuerpos de luz, el cuerpo vital o etérico, y el vehículo del alma. Uno de ellos es el resultado de eones de vida, que con el tiempo se trasforma en un poderoso receptáculo de energías, reunidas por una amplia serie de contactos, aunque están condicionados por el tipo de rayo en sus tres aspectos. Existe el cuerpo etérico, y actualmente está funcionando poderosamente. El cuerpo del alma se está construyendo lentamente y es esa "casa, no hecha con las manos, eterna en los cielos" a que se refiere el Nuevo Testamento (II Co.6-1). Es interesante observar que el Antiguo Testamento se refiere al cuerpo etérico (Ecls. 12-6,9) y su construcción, y que El Nuevo Testamento trata de la construcción del cuerpo espiritual. 3. La Ciencia del Antakarana debe estudiarse de tres maneras: a. Concretamente y en relación con el cuerpo etérico, que es una forma sustancial tangible y que la ciencia moderna comienza a reconocer (aunque todavía no es admitido universalmente). b. Egoicamente y en relación con el alma y el "cuerpo de luz", con el cual el hombre espiritual debe actuar en el mundo de las almas y que --cuando se ha mezclado y fusionado con el cuerpo etérico-- produce la manifestación de la divinidad sobre la tierra,en mayor o menor medida de acuerdo a la amplitud de la fusión y al reconocimiento consciente que tenga el individuo de la fusión lograda.c. Abstractamente y en relación con el conocimiento-sabiduría, dos palabras utilizadas en relación con la fuerza y la energía, y su utilización por el individuo en su medio ambiente y en sus contactos. Reflexionen sobre estas palabras. Se darán cuenta cuán necesario es que exista la capacidad de pensar en forma abstracta, antes de poder comprenderse las verdaderas implicaciones de esta nueva ciencia. 4. La Ciencia del Antakarana se refiere al problema de la continuidad de la conciencia y al problema de la vida y de la muerte. Traten de comprender claramente estos temas porque son fundamentales e importantes. 5. La Ciencia del Antakarana trata del triple hilo que conecta: a. La mónada con el alma y con la personalidad, uniendo los tres vehículos periódicos y unificando los siete principios.b. La triple personalidad con su medio ambiente en los tres mundos del esfuerzo humano y, luego, con los otros dos mundos de expresión superhumana (totalizando así cinco mundos).c. El hombre, conscientemente creador, con el mundo de las ideas con las cuales debe entrar en contacto y expresarlas por medio del trabajo creador, construyendo así el puente de luz entre: 1. El mundo de las almas y el mundo de los fenómenos. 2. El reino de la belleza subjetiva y la realidad, y el mundo externo tangible de la naturaleza.3. El y los demás seres.4. Un grupo y otro. 5. Más tarde cuando el Plan divino ha llegado a ser una realidad para el hombre, entre el cuarto reino (el humano) y el quinto reino (el Reino de Dios). 6. Finalmente entre la humanidad y la Jerarquía. 6. La Ciencia del Antakarana es la ciencia del triple hilo que existe desde el principio mismo de los tiempos y une al hombre, como individuo, a su origen monádico. El reconocimiento de este hilo y su empleo consciente como Sendero y como medio de hacer contactos cada vez más amplios, llega relativamente tarde en el proceso evolutivo. La meta de todos los aspirantes y discípulos es Ilegar a percibir esta corriente de energía con sus variadas diversificaciones y a emplear conscientemente estas energías de dos maneras: en el autodesarrollo, internamente, y en servicio al plan para la humanidad.7. La Ciencia del Antakarana enseña ciertas verdades fundamentales acerca de este hilo, algunas de las cuales pueden enumerarse de la manera siguiente: a. El hilo de la vida viene directamente de la mónada o el Uno. Este hilo está introducido en el corazón durante la vida. Allí reside el asiento de la vida.b. El hilo de la conciencia viene directamente del alma. Está introducido en la cabeza. Allí está el asiento de la concienciac. El hilo de la actividad creadora lo inicia y construye el ser humano. Está introducido en la garganta, si ha sido eficientemente construido. Este hilo es la prolongación o síntesis, de los dos hilos básicos anteriores. El mismo hilo creador es triple. El hombre lo va construyendo lentamente a través de las épocas. A medida que el hombre cobra verdaderamente vida, desde el punto de vista de la percepción inteligente y del deseo de expresarse plenamente, el proceso se acelera prácticamente. Estos tres hilos menores autocreados, que constituyen el tercer hilo del antakarana, se extienden con el tiempo, desde: 1. El cuerpo físico al etérico, pasando del corazón al bazo y de allí al cuerpo del prana, o cuerpo vital o etérico, al que se une la fuerza que procede de los pétalos egoicos de la voluntad.2. El cuerpo etérico al astral. Este hilo pasa del plexo solar al corazón y de allí al cuerpo astral, extrayendo la energía del hilo ya mencionado, el cual se une a la fuerza que procede de los pétalos del amor.3. El cuerpo astral al vehículo mental. Este hilo pasa del centro ajna al centro de la cabeza y de ahí al cuerpo mental y, extrayendo la energía de los otros dos hilos mencionados, se une a la fuerza que procede de los pétalos del conocimiento. Aunque estas tres energías se entretejen finalmente en un solo hilo, permanecen, no obstante, diferenciadas. Debería tenerse en cuenta que el cuerpo del alma se halla construido de luz blanca pura, mientras que la luz con que está hecho el cuerpo etérico es dorada..8. La Ciencia del Antakarana se refiere, por lo tanto, a todo el sistema de energía entrante, con los procesos de su utilización, trasformación y fusión. Trata también de las energías salientes y su relación con el medio ambiente, constituyendo la base de la ciencia de los centros de fuerza. Las energías entrantes y salientes constituyen finalmente dos grandes centrales de energía, caracterizada una por el poder, la otra por el amor, y todas están dirigidas hacia la iluminación del individuo y de la humanidad, considerada como un todo, por intermedio de la Jerarquía compuesta de individuos. Ésta es, básicamente, la Ciencia del Sendero.
1. La Ciencia del Antakarana está relacionada con todo el problema de la energía, pero especialmente con la energía manipulada por el individuo y las fuerzas mediante las cuales él se relaciona con otros individuos o grupos. Para mayor claridad, denominaremos:
a. ENERGÍA: a todas las fuerzas que afluyen al individuo desde cualquier dirección y origen. A estas energías principales frecuentemente se les ha dado el nombre de "sutratma", "hilo de vida" o "cordón plateado". b. FUERZA: a todas las energías que -después de la debida manipulación y concentración- el individuo o el grupo proyecta hacia cualquier dirección y con muchos y posibles móviles, algunos buenos, pero la mayoría egoístas.
2. La Ciencia del Antakarana, hablando técnicamente y para el propósito grupal, es especialmente la ciencia de la manifestación de la luz, que da como resultado la revelación y los cambios consiguientes. Debe recordarse que:
a. La luz es sustancial, y desde el punto de vista del espíritu es una sublimación o forma superior de sustancia material.b. La luz es también la cualidad o la característica principal del alma en su propio reino, y del cuerpo etérico (eventualmente un reflejo del alma) en los tres mundos de la evolución humana.c. La ciencia que estamos considerando tiene por objeto fusionar las luces inferiores con las superiores, de manera que brille una sola luz en la manifestación física, lográndose, por consiguiente, una síntesis de la luz.d. Hablando técnicamente, existen dos cuerpos de luz, el cuerpo vital o etérico, y el vehículo del alma. Uno de ellos es el resultado de eones de vida, que con el tiempo se trasforma en un poderoso receptáculo de energías, reunidas por una amplia serie de contactos, aunque están condicionados por el tipo de rayo en sus tres aspectos. Existe el cuerpo etérico, y actualmente está funcionando poderosamente. El cuerpo del alma se está construyendo lentamente y es esa "casa, no hecha con las manos, eterna en los cielos" a que se refiere el Nuevo Testamento (II Co.6-1). Es interesante observar que el Antiguo Testamento se refiere al cuerpo etérico (Ecls. 12-6,9) y su construcción, y que El Nuevo Testamento trata de la construcción del cuerpo espiritual.
3. La Ciencia del Antakarana debe estudiarse de tres maneras:
a. Concretamente y en relación con el cuerpo etérico, que es una forma sustancial tangible y que la ciencia moderna comienza a reconocer (aunque todavía no es admitido universalmente). b. Egoicamente y en relación con el alma y el "cuerpo de luz", con el cual el hombre espiritual debe actuar en el mundo de las almas y que --cuando se ha mezclado y fusionado con el cuerpo etérico-- produce la manifestación de la divinidad sobre la tierra,en mayor o menor medida de acuerdo a la amplitud de la fusión y al reconocimiento consciente que tenga el individuo de la fusión lograda.c. Abstractamente y en relación con el conocimiento-sabiduría, dos palabras utilizadas en relación con la fuerza y la energía, y su utilización por el individuo en su medio ambiente y en sus contactos. Reflexionen sobre estas palabras. Se darán cuenta cuán necesario es que exista la capacidad de pensar en forma abstracta, antes de poder comprenderse las verdaderas implicaciones de esta nueva ciencia.
4. La Ciencia del Antakarana se refiere al problema de la continuidad de la conciencia y al problema de la vida y de la muerte. Traten de comprender claramente estos temas porque son fundamentales e importantes. 5. La Ciencia del Antakarana trata del triple hilo que conecta:
a. La mónada con el alma y con la personalidad, uniendo los tres vehículos periódicos y unificando los siete principios.b. La triple personalidad con su medio ambiente en los tres mundos del esfuerzo humano y, luego, con los otros dos mundos de expresión superhumana (totalizando así cinco mundos).c. El hombre, conscientemente creador, con el mundo de las ideas con las cuales debe entrar en contacto y expresarlas por medio del trabajo creador, construyendo así el puente de luz entre: 1. El mundo de las almas y el mundo de los fenómenos. 2. El reino de la belleza subjetiva y la realidad, y el mundo externo tangible de la naturaleza.3. El y los demás seres.4. Un grupo y otro. 5. Más tarde cuando el Plan divino ha llegado a ser una realidad para el hombre, entre el cuarto reino (el humano) y el quinto reino (el Reino de Dios). 6. Finalmente entre la humanidad y la Jerarquía.
a. La mónada con el alma y con la personalidad, uniendo los tres vehículos periódicos y unificando los siete principios.b. La triple personalidad con su medio ambiente en los tres mundos del esfuerzo humano y, luego, con los otros dos mundos de expresión superhumana (totalizando así cinco mundos).c. El hombre, conscientemente creador, con el mundo de las ideas con las cuales debe entrar en contacto y expresarlas por medio del trabajo creador, construyendo así el puente de luz entre:
1. El mundo de las almas y el mundo de los fenómenos. 2. El reino de la belleza subjetiva y la realidad, y el mundo externo tangible de la naturaleza.3. El y los demás seres.4. Un grupo y otro. 5. Más tarde cuando el Plan divino ha llegado a ser una realidad para el hombre, entre el cuarto reino (el humano) y el quinto reino (el Reino de Dios). 6. Finalmente entre la humanidad y la Jerarquía.
1. El mundo de las almas y el mundo de los fenómenos. 2. El reino de la belleza subjetiva y la realidad, y el mundo externo tangible de la naturaleza.3. El y los demás seres.4. Un grupo y otro. 5. Más tarde cuando el Plan divino ha llegado a ser una realidad para el hombre, entre el cuarto reino (el humano) y el quinto reino (el Reino de Dios).
6. Finalmente entre la humanidad y la Jerarquía.
6. La Ciencia del Antakarana es la ciencia del triple hilo que existe desde el principio mismo de los tiempos y une al hombre, como individuo, a su origen monádico. El reconocimiento de este hilo y su empleo consciente como Sendero y como medio de hacer contactos cada vez más amplios, llega relativamente tarde en el proceso evolutivo. La meta de todos los aspirantes y discípulos es Ilegar a percibir esta corriente de energía con sus variadas diversificaciones y a emplear conscientemente estas energías de dos maneras: en el autodesarrollo, internamente, y en servicio al plan para la humanidad.7. La Ciencia del Antakarana enseña ciertas verdades fundamentales acerca de este hilo, algunas de las cuales pueden enumerarse de la manera siguiente:
a. El hilo de la vida viene directamente de la mónada o el Uno. Este hilo está introducido en el corazón durante la vida. Allí reside el asiento de la vida.b. El hilo de la conciencia viene directamente del alma. Está introducido en la cabeza. Allí está el asiento de la concienciac. El hilo de la actividad creadora lo inicia y construye el ser humano. Está introducido en la garganta, si ha sido eficientemente construido. Este hilo es la prolongación o síntesis, de los dos hilos básicos anteriores. El mismo hilo creador es triple. El hombre lo va construyendo lentamente a través de las épocas. A medida que el hombre cobra verdaderamente vida, desde el punto de vista de la percepción inteligente y del deseo de expresarse plenamente, el proceso se acelera prácticamente. Estos tres hilos menores autocreados, que constituyen el tercer hilo del antakarana, se extienden con el tiempo, desde:
1. El cuerpo físico al etérico, pasando del corazón al bazo y de allí al cuerpo del prana, o cuerpo vital o etérico, al que se une la fuerza que procede de los pétalos egoicos de la voluntad.2. El cuerpo etérico al astral. Este hilo pasa del plexo solar al corazón y de allí al cuerpo astral, extrayendo la energía del hilo ya mencionado, el cual se une a la fuerza que procede de los pétalos del amor.3. El cuerpo astral al vehículo mental. Este hilo pasa del centro ajna al centro de la cabeza y de ahí al cuerpo mental y, extrayendo la energía de los otros dos hilos mencionados, se une a la fuerza que procede de los pétalos del conocimiento.
Aunque estas tres energías se entretejen finalmente en un solo hilo, permanecen, no obstante, diferenciadas. Debería tenerse en cuenta que el cuerpo del alma se halla construido de luz blanca pura, mientras que la luz con que está hecho el cuerpo etérico es dorada..8. La Ciencia del Antakarana se refiere, por lo tanto, a todo el sistema de energía entrante, con los procesos de su utilización, trasformación y fusión. Trata también de las energías salientes y su relación con el medio ambiente, constituyendo la base de la ciencia de los centros de fuerza. Las energías entrantes y salientes constituyen finalmente dos grandes centrales de energía, caracterizada una por el poder, la otra por el amor, y todas están dirigidas hacia la iluminación del individuo y de la humanidad, considerada como un todo, por intermedio de la Jerarquía compuesta de individuos. Ésta es, básicamente, la Ciencia del Sendero.
El antakarana es por lo tanto el hilo de la conciencia y de la inteligencia, y el agente que responde a todas las reacciones sensoriales. Un punto interesante que debe recordarse y debemos destacar ahora, es que este hilo de la conciencia está elaborado por el alma y no por la mónada. El Alma Mundial derrama su hilo sutil de conciencia sensible en todas las formas, en todas las células del cuerpo y en todos los átomos. El alma humana, el ángel Solar, repite el proceso respecto a su sombra y su reflejo, la personalidad. Esto es parte del trabajo creador del alma. Pero, a su vez, el ser humano deberá también hacerse creador en el sentido mental del término y repetir el proceso, porque en todos sus puntos el microcosmos se asemeja al macrocosmos.
En consecuencia, por medio del hilo de la vida, el alma crea y reproduce una personalidad por cuyo intermedio podrá actuar. Más tarde, mediante la construcción del antakarana, el alma desarrolla ante todo la sensibilidad en el plano físico, y luego salva el abismo entre los tres aspectos mentales -por medio de la meditación y el servicio. Así completa la creación del sendero de retorno al Centro, que debe ser paralelo al sendero de salida. Con esto ha terminado mi presentación preliminar de los fundamentos que predominarán en los sistemas de educación de la era futura. Fue necesario que todos ustedes -además de todos aquellos que estudiarán más adelante estas instrucciones referentes a la nueva educación- tuvieran alguna comprensión de las implicaciones fundamentales y tendencias básicas del pasado, y también algunas ideas, aunque imprecisas, respecto de qué dirección podrían venir los cambios fundamentales. Por lo tanto, pueden empezar a trabajar con inteligencia y sin pérdida de tiempo. Lo que resta ahora es procurar que la enseñanza que he dado sea aplicada en forma práctica. Hoy la Nueva Educación debe ocupar el lugar de la antigua, que ha sido tan errónea, al punto de no haber podido evitar el holocausto universal que caracterizó a los años del período 1914 a 1946. Esta debe ser reemplazada. La siguiente etapa de la evolución humana surgirá como consecuencia de la acción purificadora de la guerra mundial. Hay pasos que la humanidad debe inevitablemente dar, y solo un nuevo tipo de educación y una actitud diferente en los procesos educativos (impuestos a los jóvenes de todas las naciones) hará que la humanidad pueda darlos. Es inminente un nuevo ciclo de experiencias, de desarrollos psicológicos y de nuevos procedimientos educativos. Lo que he dicho aquí y en otros escritos, respecto a las Ciencias de la Meditación, del Servicio y del Antakarana, da método, modalidad, modo, promesa y finalidad a todo ello.
EL TIBETANO
