# The Nine Unknown Men - Sub-Figura vel Liber Caeruleus

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_council9_03.htm

Excerpt from: "The Dawn of Magic" 1960 by Louis Pauwels & Jacques Bergier from t'CotO/Scripture Website
This tradition goes back to the time of Emperor Asoka, who reigned in India from 273 B.C. He was the grandson of Chandragupta who was the first to unify India.
Ambitious like his ancestor whose achievements he was anxious to complete, he conquered the region of Kalinga which lay between what is now Calcutta and Madras.
The Kalingans resisted and lost 100,000 men in the battle.
At the sight of this massacre Asoka was overcome. For ever after he experienced a horror of war. He renounced the idea of trying to integrate the rebellious people, declaring that the only true conquest was to win men's hearts by observance of the laws of duty and piety, because the Sacred Majesty desired that all living creatures should enjoy security, peace and happiness and be free to live as they pleased. A convert to Buddhism, Asoka, by his own virtuous example, spread this religion throughout India and his entire empire which included Malaya, Ceylon and Indonesia.
Later Buddhism penetrated to Nepal, Tibet, China and Mongolia. Asoka nevertheless respected all religious sects. He preached vegetarianism, abolished alcohol and the slaughter of animals.
H.G. Wells, in his abridged version of his Outline of World History wrote:
"Among the tens of thousands of names of monarchs accumulated in the files of history, the name of Asoka shines almost alone, like a star."
It is said that the Emperor Asoka, aware of the horrors of war, wished to forbid men ever to put their intelligence to evil uses.
During his reign natural science, past and present, was vowed to secrecy. Henceforward, and for the next 2,000 years, all researches, ranging from the structure of matter to the techniques employed in collective psychology, were to be hidden behind the mystical mask of a people commonly believed to be exclusively concerned with ecstasy and supernatural phenomena.
Asoka founded the most powerful secret society on earth: that of the Nine Unknown Men. It is still thought that the great men responsible for the destiny of modern India, and scientists like Bose and Ram believe in the existence of the Nine, and even receive advice and messages from them.
[cf. Phyllis Schlemmer's modern "Council of Nine" which "channeling" sessions have drawn such notables as Uri Geller, physicist Dr. Andrija Puharich (who once noted that Geller's entity was Horus/Hawk-like in appearance -- another story for another time perhaps) and, of course, societal sci-fi metaprogrammer extraordinaire Gene Roddenberry -B:.B:.] One can imagine the extraordinary importance of secret knowledge in the hands of nine men benefiting directly from experiments, studies and documents accumulated over a period of more than 2,000 years.
What can have been the aim of these men?
Not to allow methods of destruction to fall into the hands of unqualified persons, and to pursue knowledge which would benefit mankind. Their numbers would be renewed by co-option, so as to preserve the secrecy of techniques handed down from ancient times. Examples of the Nine Unknown Men making contact with the outer world are rare. There was, however, the extraordinary case of one of the most mysterious figures in Western history: the Pope Sylvester II, known also by the name of Gerbert d'Aurillac.
Born in the Auvergne in 920 (d. 1003) Gerbert was a Benedictine monk, professor at the University of Rheims, Archbishop of Ravenna and Pope by the grace of Otho III. He is supposed to have spent some time in Spain, after which a mysterious voyage brought him to India where he is reputed to have acquired various kinds of skills which stupefied his entourage.
For example, he possessed in his palace a bronze head which answered Yes or No to questions put to it on politics or the general position of Christianity. [cf. "Max the Crystal Skull" of current notoriety -B:.B:.]
According to Sylvester II this was a perfectly simple operation corresponding to a two-figure calculation, and was performed by an automaton similar to our modem binary machines.
This "magic" head was destroyed when Sylvester died, and all the information it imparted carefully concealed. No doubt an authorized research worker would come across some surprising things in the Vatican Library. In the cybernetics journal, Computers and Automation of October 1954, the following comment appeared:
"We must suppose that he (Sylvester) was possessed of extraordinary knowledge and the most remarkable mechanical skill and inventiveness. This speaking head must have been fashioned 'under a certain conjunction of stars occurring at the exact moment when all the planets were starting on their courses.' Neither the past, nor the present nor the future entered into it, since this invention apparently far exceeded in its scope its rival, the perverse 'mirror on the wall' of the Queen, the precursor of our modern electronic brain. Naturally, it was widely asserted that Gerbert was only able to produce such a machine because he was in league with the Devil and had sworn eternal allegiance to him."
"We must suppose that he (Sylvester) was possessed of extraordinary knowledge and the most remarkable mechanical skill and inventiveness.
This speaking head must have been fashioned 'under a certain conjunction of stars occurring at the exact moment when all the planets were starting on their courses.' Neither the past, nor the present nor the future entered into it, since this invention apparently far exceeded in its scope its rival, the perverse 'mirror on the wall' of the Queen, the precursor of our modern electronic brain.
Naturally, it was widely asserted that Gerbert was only able to produce such a machine because he was in league with the Devil and had sworn eternal allegiance to him."
Had other Europeans any contact with this society of the Nine Unknown Men?
It was not until the nineteenth century that this mystery was referred to again in the works of the French writer Jacolliot. Jacolliot was French Consul at Calcutta under the Second Empire. He wrote some quite important prophetic works, comparable, if not superior to those of Jules Verne.
He also left several books dealing with the great secrets of the human race. A great many occult writers, prophets and miracle-workers have borrowed from his writings which, completely neglected in France, are well known in Russia. Jacolliot states categorically that the society of Nine did actually exist. And, to make it all the more intriguing, he refers in this connection to certain techniques, unimaginable in 1860, such as, for example, the liberation of energy, sterilization by radiation and psychological warfare. Yersin, one of Pasteur and de Roux's closest collaborators, was entrusted, it seems, with certain biological secrets when he visited Madras in 1860, and following the instructions he received was able to prepare a serum against cholera and the plague. The story of the Nine Unknown Men was popularized for the first time in 1927 in a book by Talbot Mundy who for twenty-five years was a member of the British police force in India.
His book 'The Nine Unknown' wrote in 1927, is half fiction, half scientific inquiry.
Perhaps the perfect balance between pulp high adventure and mystical novel was achieved in The Nine Unknown. (1923/1924), written and published right before the Tibetan opus Om.
The novel is based on a persistent legend brought back to the west from the East, about the existence of nine unknown perfected men who watched over India, and guarded its secrets.
In Mundy's novel there turns out to be nine unknown men who work for the good of mankind, and a dark shadowy nine who worship Kali and work to destroy the work of the others.
JimGrim and his crew must try to sort out which is which if they are to survive.
The novel was a favorite of Pauwels and Bergier, whose discussion of "the nine" was a prototype "open conspiracy" for planetary change in their influencial Morning of the Magicians.
The use of Mundy's ideas in Pauwels and Bergier's book was probably was one of the prime reasons for
the Mundy revival in the 1960s.
The Nine apparently employed a synthetic language [Enochian? -B:.B:.], and each of them was in possession of a book that was constantly being rewritten and containing a detailed account of some science. [Note here the Qabbalistic "synchronicities" in the subjects of the Nine Books. -B:.B:.]
The first of these books is said to have been devoted to the technique of propaganda and psychological warfare. "The most dangerous of all sciences," wrote Mundy, "is that of moulding mass opinion, because it would enable anyone to govern the whole world." [Indeed, cf. the Rockefeller-funded exploits of such notables as Harvard's Dr. John Mack and CSETI's Dr. Steve Greer along with such other notables as the military/intelligence community's Psyop (psychological warfare operative) Michael Acquino (Temple of Set), Dr. John Lilly (LSD, Dolphins'n Sensory Deprivation Tanks), The BABALON (i.e. Crowley, Parsons'n Hubbard), etc. etc. etc. -B:.B:.] It must be remembered that Korjybski's General Semantics did not appear until 1937 and that it was not until the West had had the experience of the last World War that the techniques of the psychology of language, i.e. propaganda, could be formulated. The first American college of semantics only came into being in 1950. In France almost the only book that is at all well known is Serge Tchocotine's Le Viol des Foules [i.e. "The Rape of the Masses," no doubt a take-off on Ortega y Gasset's classic socio-logical work of the same name. -B:.B:.] which has had a consider- able influence in intellectual political circles, although it deals only superficially with the subject. The second book was on physiology. It explained, among other things, how it is possible to kill a man by touching him, death being caused by a reversal of the nerve-impulse. It is said that Judo is a result of "leakages" from this book. The third volume was a study on microbiology, and dealt especially with protective colloids. The fourth was concerned with the transmutation of metals. There is a legend that in times of drought temples and religious relief organizations received large quantities of fine gold from a secret source. The fifth volume contains a study of all means of communication, terrestrial and extra-terrestrial. [Keep in mind this is circa 250 B.C.E. -B:.B:.] The sixth expounds the secrets of gravitation. The seventh contains the most exhaustive cosmogony known to humanity. The eighth deals with light. The ninth volume, on sociology, gives the rules for the evolution of societies, and the means of foretelling their decline.
The first of these books is said to have been devoted to the technique of propaganda and psychological warfare.
"The most dangerous of all sciences," wrote Mundy, "is that of moulding mass opinion, because it would enable anyone to govern the whole world."
[Indeed, cf. the Rockefeller-funded exploits of such notables as Harvard's Dr. John Mack and CSETI's Dr. Steve Greer along with such other notables as the military/intelligence community's Psyop (psychological warfare operative) Michael Acquino (Temple of Set), Dr. John Lilly (LSD, Dolphins'n Sensory Deprivation Tanks), The BABALON (i.e. Crowley, Parsons'n Hubbard), etc. etc. etc. -B:.B:.] It must be remembered that Korjybski's General Semantics did not appear until 1937 and that it was not until the West had had the experience of the last World War that the techniques of the psychology of language, i.e. propaganda, could be formulated.
The first American college of semantics only came into being in 1950.
In France almost the only book that is at all well known is Serge Tchocotine's Le Viol des Foules [i.e. "The Rape of the Masses," no doubt a take-off on Ortega y Gasset's classic socio-logical work of the same name. -B:.B:.] which has had a consider- able influence in intellectual political circles, although it deals only superficially with the subject.
The second book was on physiology. It explained, among other things, how it is possible to kill a man by touching him, death being caused by a reversal of the nerve-impulse. It is said that Judo is a result of "leakages" from this book.
The third volume was a study on microbiology, and dealt especially with protective colloids.
The fourth was concerned with the transmutation of metals. There is a legend that in times of drought temples and religious relief organizations received large quantities of fine gold from a secret source.
The fifth volume contains a study of all means of communication, terrestrial and extra-terrestrial. [Keep in mind this is circa 250 B.C.E. -B:.B:.]
The sixth expounds the secrets of gravitation.
The seventh contains the most exhaustive cosmogony known to humanity.
The eighth deals with light.
The ninth volume, on sociology, gives the rules for the evolution of societies, and the means of foretelling their decline.
Connected with the Nine Unknown Men is the mystery of the waters of the Ganges.
Multitudes of pilgrims, suffering from the most appalling diseases, bathe in them without harming the healthy ones. The sacred waters purify everything. Their strange properties have been attributed to the fact that they contain bacteriophages.
But why should these not be formed in the Bramaputra, the Amazon or the Seine?
Jacolliot in his book advances the theory of sterilization by radiation, a hundred years before such a thing was thought to be possible.
These radiations, he says, probably come from a secret temple hollowed out in the bed of the Ganges. Avoiding all forms of religious, social or political agitations, deliberately and perfectly concealed from the public eye, the Nine were the incarnation of the ideal man of science, serenely aloof, but conscious of his moral obligations.
Having the power to mould the destiny of the human race, but refraining from its exercise, this secret society is the finest tribute imaginable to freedom of the most exalted kind.
Looking down from the watch-tower of their hidden glory, these Nine Unknown Men watched civilizations being born, destroyed and re-born again, tolerant rather than indifferent, and ready to come to the rescue -- but always observing that rule of silence that is the mark of human greatness. Myth or reality? A magnificent myth, in any case, and one that has issued from the depths of time -- a harbinger, maybe, of the future ?
Return to The Council of Nine
