# The Illuminati and the Council on Foreign Relations - 1

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_illuminati_3.htm

by Myron Fagan
(later renamed 'The Illuminati Agenda') from EducateYourself Website
Contents
Part I Part II
Part I
Part II
Return to CFR
Return to Illuminati
Return to Temas/Sociopolitica
The question of how and why the United Nations is the crux of the great conspiracy to destroy the sovereignty of the United States and the enslavement of the American people within a U.N. one-world dictatorship is a complete and unknown mystery to the vast majority of the American people. The reason for this unawareness of the frightening danger to our country and to the entire free world is simple. The masterminds behind this great conspiracy have absolute control of all of our mass-communications media, especially television, the radio, the press, and Hollywood.
We all know that our State Department, the Pentagon, and the White House have brazenly proclaimed that they have the right and the power to manage the news, to tell us not the truth but what they want us to believe. They have seized that power on orders from their masters of the great conspiracy and the objective is to brainwash the people into accepting the phony peace bait to transform the United States into an enslaved unit of the United Nations one-world government.
Movie Extract
[Link to They Live Webpage.]
"First of all, bear in mind that the so-called U.N. police-action in Korea, fought by the United States in which 150,000 of our sons were murdered and maimed, was part of the plot, just as the undeclared by Congress war in Vietnam in which our sons are dying is part of the plot, just as the plot against Rhodesia and South Africa in which our sons will be dying is part of the U.N. plot. However, the vitally important thing for all Americans, all you mothers of the boys who died in Korea and are now dying in Vietnam, to know is that our so-called leaders in Washington, who we elected to safeguard our nation and our Constitution, are the betrayers and that behind them are a comparatively small group of men whose sole-objective is to enslave the whole world of humanity in their satanic-plot of one-world government."Now in order to give you a very clear picture of this satanic-plot, I will go back to its beginning, clear back in the middle of the 18th century and name the men who put that plot into action and then bring you down to the present - todays status of that plot. Now as a matter of further intelligence, a term used by the FBI, let me clarify the meaning of the expression "he is a liberal." The enemy, meaning the one-world conspirators, have seized upon that word "liberal" as a cover-up for their activities. It sounds so innocent and so humanitarian to be liberal. Well, make sure that the person who calls himself a liberal or is described as a liberal is not, in truth, a "red.""Now then, this satanic-plot was launched back in the 1760s when it first came into existence under the name "Illuminati." This Illuminati was organized by one Adam Weishaupt, born a Jew, who was converted to Catholicism and became a Catholic priest, and then, at the behest of the then newly-organized House of Rothschild, defected and organized the Illuminati. Naturally, the Rothschilds financed that operation and every war since then, beginning with the French Revolution, has been promoted by the Illuminati operating under various names and guises. I say under various names and guises because after the Illuminati was exposed and became notorious, Weishaupt and his co-conspirators began to operate under various other names. In the United States, immediately after World War I, they set up what they called the "Council on Foreign Relations," commonly referred to as the CFR, and this CFR is actually the Illuminati in the United States and its hierarchy. The masterminds in control of the original Illuminati conspirators, were foreigners, but to conceal that fact, most of them changed their original family names to American sounding names. For example, the true name of the Dillons, Clarence and Douglas Dillon (one Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department), is Laposky. Ill come back to all this later. "There is a similar establishment of the Illuminati in England operating under the name of the "British Institute of International Affairs." (The Royal Institute of International Affairs, actually) There are similar secret Illuminati organizations in France, Germany, and other nations operating under different names and all these organizations, including the CFR, continuously set up numerous subsidiary or front-organizations that are infiltrated into every phase of the various nations affairs. But at all times, the operations of these organizations were and are masterminded and controlled by the Internationalist Bankers, they in turn were and are controlled by the Rothschilds. (One of the prime agents in this control is through the International BAR Association and its splinter groups such as the America BAR Association. It is important to note that there are BAR Associations in nearly every nation world wide now, pushing the United Nations always. I do have a copy of the 1947 agreement that the American BAR submitted which commits the BAR to support and promote the U.N. throughout America. - David G.) "One branch of the Rothschild family had financed Napoleon, another branch of the Rothschilds financed Britain, Germany, and the other nations in the Napoleonic wars."Immediately after the Napoleonic wars, the Illuminati assumed that all the nations were so destitute and so weary of wars that theyd be glad for any solution, so the Rothschild stooges set up what they called the Congress in Vienna and at that meeting they tried to create the first League of Nations, their first attempted one-world government, on the theory that all the crowned heads of European governments were so deeply in debt to them that they would willingly or unwillingly serve as their stooges. But the Czar of Russia caught the stench of the plot and completely torpedoed it. The enraged Nathan Rothschild, then the head of the dynasty, vowed that some day he or his descendants would destroy the Czar and his entire family, and his descendants did accomplish that very threat in 1917. At this point, bear in mind that the Illuminati was not set up to operate on a short-range basis. Normally a conspirator of any type enters into a conspiracy with the expectation of achieving his objective during his own lifetime. But that was not the case with the Illuminati. True, they hoped to accomplish their objective during their lifetime, but paraphrasing "The show must go on," the Illuminati operates on the very long-range basis. Whether it will take scores of years or even centuries, they have dedicated their descendants to keep the pot boiling until they hope the conspiracy is achieved. "Now, lets go back to the birth of the Illuminati. Adam Weishaupt was a Jesuit-trained professor of canon law, teaching in Engelstock University, when he defected from Christianity to embrace the luciferian conspiracy. It was in 1770 that the professional money-lenders, the then recently organized House of Rothschild, retained him to revise and modernize the age-old protocols of Zionism, which from the outset, was designed to give the "Synagogue of Satan", so named by Jesus Christ [and who are "them which say they are Jews and are not" - Revelation /Apocalypse 2:9], ultimate world-domination so they could impose the luciferian ideology upon what would remain of the human-race after the final social-cataclysm by use of satanic despotism. Weishaupt completed his task May 1, 1776. Now you know why May 1 is the great day with all communist nations to this very day (May 1 is also "Law Day" as declared by the American Bar Association). (The celebration of May 1 [Baal/Bealtaine] goes much further back into history than this, and the day was picked for the ancient reasons, which comes through Paganism, Baal-worship and revolves around the worship of Satan. - David G.) That was the day, May 1, 1776, that Weishaupt completed his plan and officially organized the Illuminati to put the plan into execution. That plan required the destruction of all existing governments and religions. That objective was to be reached by dividing the masses of people, whom he Weishaupt, termed: "goyism" [nationalism] or human cattle into opposing camps in ever increasing numbers on political, social, economic, and other issues - the very conditions we have in our country today. The opposing sides were then to be armed and incidents provided which would cause them to fight and weaken themselves and gradually destroy national governments and religious institutions. Again I say, the very conditions in the world today."And at this point let me stress a prime feature of the Illuminati plans. When and if their blueprint for world control, the Protocols Of The Elders Of Zion, is discovered and exposed, they would wipe all the Jews off the face of the earth in order to divert suspicions from themselves. If you think this is far fetched, bear in mind that they permitted Hitler, a liberal socialist himself, who was financed by corrupt Kennedy, the Warburgs, and the Rothschilds, to incinerate 600,000 Jews."Now just why did the conspirators choose the word: "Illuminati" for their satanic-organization? Weishaupt himself said that the word is derived from Lucifer and means: "holder of the light." Using the lie that his objective was to bring about a one-world government to enable those with mental ability to govern the world and prevent all wars in the future. In short, using the words: "peace on earth" as his bait, exactly as that same bait as: "peace" was used by the 1945 conspirators to force the United Nations on us, Weishaupt financed, I repeat, by the Rothschilds, recruited some 2,000 paid followers. These included the most intelligent men in the field of arts and letters, education, the sciences, finance, and industry. He then established Lodges of the Grand Orient, Masonic Lodges to be their secret headquarters and I again repeat, that in all of this he was acting under orders from the House of Rothschild. The main features of the Weishaupt plan of operation required his Illuminati to do the following things to help them to accomplish their purpose: - Use monetary and sex bribery to obtain control of men already in high places in the various levels of all governments and other fields of endeavor. Once influential persons had fallen for the lies, deceits, and temptations of the Illuminati they were to be held in bondage by application of political and other forms of blackmail, threats of financial ruin, public exposure, and fiscal harm, even death to themselves and loved members of their families. Do you realize how many present top officials in our present government in Washington are controlled in just that way by the CFR? Do you realize how many homosexuals in our State Department, the Pentagon, all federal agencies, even in the White House are controlled that way? - Illuminati and the faculties of colleges and universities were to cultivate students possessing exceptional mental ability belonging to well-bred families with international leanings and recommend them for special training in internationalism. Such training was to be provided by granting scholarships to those selected by the Illuminatists. "That gives you an idea what a "Rhodes Scholarship" means. It means indoctrination into accepting the idea that only a one-world government can put an end to recurring wars and strife. Thats how the United Nations was sold to the American people. "One of the most notable Rhodes scholars we have in our country is Senator William J. Fulbright, sometimes referred to as half-bright. His entire voting-record spells Illuminati. All such scholars were to be first persuaded and then convinced that men of special talent and brains have the right to rule those less gifted on the ground that the masses dont know what is best for them fiscally, mentally, and spiritually. In addition to the Rhodes and similar scholarships, today there are three special Illuminati schools located in, Gordonstown in Scotland Salem in Germany Annavrighta in Greece These three are known ones, but there are others that are kept undercover. Prince Philip, the husband of Britains Queen Elizabeth, was educated at Gordonstown (as was also Prince Charles) at the instigation of Lord Louis Mountbatten, his uncle, a Rothschild relative, who became Britains Admiral of the Fleet after World War II ended. - All influential people trapped into coming under the control of the Illuminati, plus the students who had been specially educated and trained, were to be used as agents and placed behind the scenes of all governments as experts and specialists so they would advise the top executives to adopt policies which would in the long-run serve the secret plans of the Illuminati one-world conspiracy and bring about the destruction of the governments and religions they were elected or appointed to serve. Do you know how many such men operate in our government at this very time? Rusk, McNamara, Hubert Humphrey, Fulbright, Keekle, and goes on and on and on.- Perhaps the most vital directive in Weishaupts plan was to obtain absolute-control of the press, at that time the only mass-communications media, to distribute information to the public so that all news and information could be slanted so that the masses could be convinced that a one-world government is the only solution to our many and varied problems. "Do you know who owns and controls our mass-communications media? Ill tell you. Practically all the movie lots in Hollywood are owned by the Lehmans, Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, Goldman-Sachs, and other internationalist bankers. All the national radio and TV channels in the nation are owned and controlled by those same internationalist bankers. The same is true of every chain of metropolitan newspapers and magazines, also of the press wire-services, such as Associated Press, United Press, International, etc.. The supposed heads of all those media are merely the fronts for the internationalist bankers, who in turn compose the hierarchy of the CFR, todays Illuminati in America. "Now can you understand why the Pentagon Press agent, Sylvester, so brazenly proclaimed that the government has the right to lie to the people. What he really meant was that our CFR controlled government had the power to lie to and be believed by the brain-washed American people."Let us again go back to the first days of the Illuminati. Because Britain and France were the two greatest world powers in the late years of the 18th Century, Weishaupt ordered the Illuminati to foment the colonial wars, including our Revolutionary War, to weaken the British Empire and organize the French Revolution to start in 1789. However, in 1784, a true act of God placed the Bavarian government in possession of evidence which proved the existence of the Illuminati and that evidence could have saved France if they, the French government, hadnt refused to believe it. Here is how that act of God happened. It was in 1784 that Weishaupt issued his orders for the French Revolution. A German writer, named Zweig, put it into book form. It contained the entire Illuminati story and Weishaupts plans. A copy of this book was sent to the Illuminists in France headed by Robespierre whom Weishaupt had delegated to foment the French Revolution. The courier was struck and killed by lightening as he rode through Rawleston on his way from Frankfurt to Paris. The police found the subversive documents on his body and turned them over to the proper authorities. After a careful study of the plot, the Bavarian government ordered the police to raid Weishaupts newly-organized Lodges of the "Grand Orient" and the homes of his most influential associates. All additional evidence thus discovered convinced the authorities that the documents were genuine copies of the conspiracy by which the Illuminati planned to use wars and revolutions to bring about the establishment of a one-world government, the powers of which they, headed by the Rothschilds, intended to usurp as soon as it was established, exactly in line with the United Nations plot of today."In 1785, the Bavarian government outlawed the Illuminati and closed the Lodges of the "Grand Orient." In 1786, they published all the details of the conspiracy. The English title of that publication is: "The Original Writings of the Order and the Sect of the Illuminati." Copies of the entire conspiracy were sent to all the heads of church and state in Europe. But the power of the Illuminati, which was actually the power of the Rothschilds, was so great that this warning was ignored. Nevertheless, the Illuminati became a dirty word and it went underground."At the same time, Weishaupt ordered Illuminists to infiltrate into the Lodges of "Blue Masonry" and formed their own secret societies within all secret societies. Only Masons who proved themselves internationalists and those whose conduct proved they had defected from God were initiated into the Illuminati. Thenceforth, the conspirators donned the cloak of philanthropy and humanitarianism to conceal their revolutionary and subversive activities. In order to infiltrate into Masonic Lodges in Britain, Weishaupt invited John Robison over to Europe. Robison was a high-degree Mason in the "Scottish Rite." He was a professor of natural philosophy at Edinburgh University and Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Robison did not fall for the lie that the objective of the Illuminati was to create a benevolent dictatorship, but he kept his reactions to himself so well that he was entrusted with a copy of Weishaupts revised conspiracy for study and safekeeping.Anyway, because the heads of state and church in France were deluded into ignoring the warnings given them, the revolution broke out in 1789 as scheduled by Weishaupt. In order to alert other governments to their danger, in 1798, Robison published a book entitled: "Proof of a conspiracy to Destroy all Governments and Religions" but his warnings were ignored exactly as our American people have been ignoring all warnings about the United Nations and the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR). "Now here is something that will stun and very likely outrage many who hear this, but there is documentary proof that our own Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton became students of Weishaupt. Jefferson was one of Weishaupts strongest defenders when he was outlawed by his government and it was Jefferson who infiltrated the Illuminati into the then newly-organized lodges of the "Scottish Rite" in New England. Here is the proof. "In 1789, John Robison warned all Masonic leaders in America that the Illuminati had infiltrated into their lodges and on July 19, 1789, David Papen, President of Harvard University, issued the same warning to the graduating-class and lectured them on how the influence of Illuminism was acquitting on American politics and religion, and to top it off, John Quincy Adams, who had organized the New England Masonic Lodges, issued his warnings. He wrote three letters to Colonel William L. Stone, a top Mason, in which he exposed how Jefferson was using Masonic lodges for subversive Illuministic purposes. Those three letters are at this very time in Whittenburg Square Library in Philadelphia. In short, Jefferson, founder of the Democratic Party, was a member of the Illuminati which at least partly accounts for the condition of the party at this time and through infiltration of the Republican Party, we have exactly nothing of loyal Americanism today. That disastrous rebuff at the Congress of Vienna created by the Czar of Russia did not by any means destroy the Illuminati conspiracy. It merely forced them to adopt a new strategy realizing that the one-world idea was, for the moment, killed. The Rothschilds decided that to keep the plot alive they would have to do it by heightening their control of the money-system of the European nations."Earlier, by a ruse, the outcome of the Battle of Waterloo had been falsified, Rothschild had spread a story that Napoleon had had one bad battle, which precipitated a terrific panic on the stock-market in England. All stocks had plummeted down to practically zero and Nathan Rothschild bought all the stocks for virtually a penny on its dollar values. That gave him complete control of the economy of Britain and virtually of all Europe. So, immediately after that Congress in Vienna had boomeranged, Rothschild had forced Britain to set up a new "Bank of England", over which he had absolute control, exactly, as later through Jacob Schiff, he engineered our own "Federal Reserve Act" which gave the House of Rothschild a secret control of the economy in the United States. But now for a moment, lets dwell on the activities of the Illuminati in the United States."In 1826, one Captain William Morgan decided it was his duty to inform all Masons and the general public what the full proof was regarding the Illuminati, their secret plans, intended objectives, and to reveal the identities of the masterminds of the conspiracy. The Illuminati promptly tried Morgan in absentia and convicted him of treason. They ordered one Richard Howard, an English Illuminist, to carry-out their sentence of execution as a traitor. Morgan was warned and he tried to escape to Canada, but Howard caught up with him near the border, near the Niagara Gorge to be exact, where he murdered him. This was verified in a sworn statement made in New York by one Avery Allen to the effect that he heard Howard render his report of the execution to a meeting of "Knights Templars" in St. Johns Hall in New York. He also told how arrangements had been made to ship Howard back to England. That Allen affidavit is on record in New York City Archives. Very few Masons and very few of the general-public know that general-disapproval over that incident of murder caused approximately half of all the Masons in the northern jurisdiction of the United States to secede. Copies of the minutes of the meeting held to discuss that matter are still in existence in safe hands and that all that secrecy emphasizes the power of the masterminds of the Illuminati to prevent such terrible events of history from being taught in our schools."In the early 1850s, the Illuminati held a secret meeting in New York which was addressed by a British Illuminist named Wright. Those in attendance were told that the Illuminati was organizing to unite the Nihilist and Atheist groups with all other subversive groups into an international group to be known as Communists. That was when the word: "communist" first came into being and it was intended to be the supreme weapon and scare-word to terrify the whole world and drive the terrorized peoples into the Illuminati one-world scheme. This scheme: "communism," was to be used to enable the Illuminati to foment future wars and revolutions. Clinton Roosevelt, a direct ancestor of Franklin Roosevelt, Horace Greeley, and Charles Dana, foremost newspaper-publishers of that time were appointed to head a committee to raise funds for the new venture. Of course, most of the funds were provided by the Rothschilds and this fund was used to finance Karl Marx and Engels when they wrote "Das Kapital" and the "Communist Manifesto" in Soho, England. And this clearly reveals that communism is not a so-called ideology, but a secret weapon, a bogy-man word to serve the purpose of the Illuminati. "Weishaupt died in 1830, but prior to his death, he prepared a revised version of the age-old conspiracy, the Illuminati, which under various aliases was to organize, finance, direct, and control all international organizations and groups by working their agents into executive positions at the top. In the United States we have Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Jack Kennedy, Johnson, Rusk, McNamara, Fulbright, George Bush etc., as prime examples. In addition, while Karl Marx was writing the "Communist Manifesto" under the director of one group of Illuminists, Professor Karl Ritter of Frankfurt University was writing the antithesis under the direction of another group. The idea was that those who direct the overall conspiracy could use the differences in those two so-called ideologies to enable them to divide larger and larger numbers of the human-race into opposing camps so that they could be armed and then brainwashed into fighting and destroying each other. And particularly, to destroy all political and religious institutions. The work Ritter started was continued after his death and completed by the German so-called philosopher Freidrich Wilhelm Nietzsche who founded Nietzscheanism. This Nietzscheanism was later developed into Fascism and then into Nazism and was used to foment World War I and II."In 1834, the Italian revolutionary leader, Guiseppe Mazzini, was selected by the Illuminati to direct their revolutionary program throughout the world. He served in that capacity until he died in 1872, but some years before he died, Mazzini had enticed an American General named Albert Pike into the Illuminati. Pike was fascinated by the idea of a one-world government and ultimately he became the head of this luciferian conspiracy. Between 1859 and 1871 he, Pike, worked out a military-blueprint for three world wars and various revolutions throughout the world which he considered would forward the conspiracy to its final stage in the 20th century. Again I remind you that these conspirators were never concerned with immediate success. They also operated on a long-range view. Pike did most of his work in his home in Little Rock, Arkansas. But a few years later, when the Illuminatis Lodges of the Grand Orient became suspect and repudiated because of Mazzinis revolutionary activities in Europe, Pike organized what he called the New and Reformed Palladian Right. He set up three Supreme Councils, one in Charleston, South Carolina, one in Rome, Italy, and a third in Berlin, Germany. He had Mazzini establish 23 subordinate councils in strategic locations throughout the world. These have been the secret headquarters of the world revolutionary movement ever since."Long before Marconi invented the radio, the scientists in the Illuminati had found the means for Pike and the heads of his councils to communicate secretly. It was the discovery of that secret that enabled intelligence-officers to understand how apparently unrelated incidents, such as the assassination of an Austrian Prince in Serbia, took place simultaneously throughout the world, which developed into a war or a revolution. Pikes plan was as simple as it has proved effective. It called for communism, nazism, political zionism, and other international movements to be organized and used to foment three global world wars and at least two major revolutions."The first world war was to be fought so as to enable the Illuminati to destroy Czarism in Russia, as vowed by Rothschild after the Czar had torpedoed his scheme at the Congress in Vienna, and to transform Russia into a stronghold of atheistic-communism. The differences stirred up by agents of the Illuminati between the British and German Empires were to be used to foment this war. After the war would be ended, communism was to be built up and used to destroy other governments and weaken religions."World War II, when and if necessary, was to be fomented by using the controversies between Fascists and political zionists, and here let it be noted that Hitler was financed by Krupp, the Warburgs, the Rothschilds, and other internationalist bankers and that the slaughter of the supposed 6,000,000 Jews by Hitler didnt bother the Jewish internationalist bankers at all. That slaughter was necessary in order to create worldwide-hatred of the German people and thus bring about war against them. In short, this second world war was to be fought to destroy nazism and increase the power of political Zionism so that the state of Israel could be established in Palestine."During this World War II, international communism was to be built up until it equaled in strength that of united Christendom. When it reached that point, it was to be contained and kept in check until required for the final social-cataclysm. As we know now, Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin put that exact policy into effect and Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and George Bush continued that same exact policy."World War III is to be fomented, using the so-called controversies, by the agents of the Illuminati operating under whatever new name, that are now being stored up between the political Zionists and the leaders of the Moslem world. That war is to be directed in such a manner that all of Islam and political Zionism (Israelis) will destroy each other while at the same time, the remaining nations, once more divided on this issue, will be forced to fight themselves into a state of complete exhaustion, physically, mentally, spiritually, and economically. "Now can any thinking person doubt that the intrigue now going on in the near Middle and Far-East is designed to accomplish that satanic objective? Pike himself foretold all this in a statement he made to Mazzini on August 15, 1871. Pike stated that after World War III is ended, those who will aspire to undisputed world-domination will provoke the greatest social-cataclysm the world has ever known. Quoting his own words taken from the letter he wrote to Mazzini and which letter is now catalogued in the British Museum in London, England, he said:"We shall unleash the nihilists and the atheists and we shall provoke a great social-cataclysm which in all its horror will show clearly to all nations the effect of absolute-atheism, the origins of savagery and of most bloody turmoil. Then everywhere, the people will be forced to defend themselves against the world-minority of the world-revolutionaries and will exterminate those destroyers of civilization and the multitudes disillusioned with Christianity whose spirits will be from that moment without direction and leadership and anxious for an ideal, but without knowledge where to send its adoration, will receive the true light through the universal-manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer brought finally out into public view. A manifestation which will result from a general reactionary movement which will follow the destruction of Christianity and Atheism, both conquered and exterminated at the same time." "When Mazzini died in 1872, Pike made another revolutionary leader named Adrian Lemmy, his successor. Lemmy, in turn, was succeeded by Lenin and Trotsky, then by Stalin. The revolutionary activities of all those men were financed by British, French, German, and American international bankers, all of them dominated by the House of Rothschild. We are supposed to believe that the international bankers of today, like the money-changers of Christs day, are only the tools or agents of the great conspiracy, but actually they are the masterminds behind all the mass-communications media leading us into believing that communism is a movement of the so-called workers, the actual fact is that both British and American intelligence-officers have authentic documentary-evidence that international liberals, operating through their international banking houses, particularly the House of Rothschild, have financed both sides of every war and revolution since 1776."Those who today comprise the conspiracy (the CFR in the United States and the RIIA in Britain), direct our governments whom they hold in usury through such methods as the Federal Reserve System in America to fight wars, such as Vietnam (created by the United Nations), so as to further Pikes Illuminati plans to bring the world to that stage of the conspiracy when atheistic-communism and the whole of Christianity can be forced into an all-out third world war within each remaining nation as well as on an international basis scale."The headquarters of the great conspiracy in the late 1700s was in Frankfurt, Germany where the House of Rothschild had been established by Mayar (or Mayer) Amschel who adopted the Rothschild name and linked together other international financiers who had literally sold their souls to the devil. After the Bavarian governments exposure in 1786, the conspirators moved their headquarters to Switzerland then to London. Since World War II (after Jacob Schiff, the Rothschilds boy in America died), the headquarters of the American branch has been in the Harold Pratt Building in New York City and the Rockefellers, originally proteges of Schiff, have taken over the manipulation of finances in America for the Illuminati."In the final phases of the conspiracy, the one-world government will consist of the king-dictator, the head of the United Nations, the CFR, and a few billionaires, economists, and scientists who have proved their devotion to the great conspiracy. All others are to be integrated into a vast conglomeration of mongrelized humanity, actually slaves. Now let me show you how our federal government and the American people have been sucked into the one-world take over plot of the Illuminati great conspiracy and always bear in mind, that the United Nations was created to become the housing for that one-world, so-called, liberal conspiracy. The real foundations of the plot of the takeover of the United States were laid during the period of our Civil War. Not that Weishaupt and the earlier masterminds had ever overlooked the new world, as I have previously indicated, Weishaupt had his agents planted over here as far back as the Revolutionary War."It was during the Civil War that the conspirators launched their first concrete efforts. We know that Judah Benjamin, chief advisor of Jefferson Davis, was a Rothschild agent. We also know that there were Rothschild agents planted in Abraham Lincolns cabinet who tried to sell him into a financial dealing with the House of Rothschild. But old Abe saw through the scheme and bluntly rejected it thereby incurring the undying enmity of the Rothschilds, exactly as the Russian Czar did when he torpedoed their first League of Nations at the Congress in Vienna. Investigation of the assassination of Lincoln revealed that the assassin Booth was a member of a secret conspiratorial group. Because there were a number of highly-important government-officials involved, the name of the group was never revealed and it became a mystery, exactly as the assassination of Jack (John F.) Kennedy is still a mystery. But I am sure it will not remain a mystery for long. Anyway, the ending of the Civil War destroyed temporarily all chances of the House of Rothschild to get a clutch on our money-system, such as they had acquired in Britain and other nations in Europe. I say temporarily because the Rothschilds and the masterminds of the conspiracy never quit, so they had to start from scratch, but they lost no time in getting started."Shortly after the Civil War, a young immigrant, who called himself Jacob H. Schiff, arrived in New York. Jacob was a young man with a mission for the House of Rothschild. Jacob was the son of a Rabbi who was born in one of the Rothschilds houses in Frankfurt, Germany. I will go deeply into his background. The important point was that Rothschild recognized in him, not only a potential money wizard, but more important, he also saw the latent Machiavellian qualities in Jacob, that could, as it did, make him an invaluable functionary in the great one-world conspiracy. After a comparatively brief training-period in the Rothschilds London Bank, Jacob left for America with instructions to buy into a banking-house which was to be the springboard to acquire control of the money-system of the United States. Actually, Jacob came here to carry out four specific assignments. 1. And most important, was to acquire control of Americas money-system2. Find desirable men, who for a price, would be willing to serve as stooges for the great conspiracy and promote them into high places in our federal government, our Congress, and the U.S. Supreme Court, and all federal agencies 3. Create minority-group strife throughout the nations, particularly between the whites and blacks4. Create a movement to destroy religion in the United States, but Christianity to be the chief target "Earlier I stated that Jacob Schiff came to America with orders by Rothschild to carry out four specific directives. The first and most important one was to get control of the United States money-system. Lets trace Schiffs step to accomplish that directive. As a first step he had to buy into a banking-house, but it had to be the kind of a house that he could absolutely control and mold for that primary-objective of entrapping our U.S. money-system. After carefully scouting around, Jacob bought a partnership in a firm that called itself: "Kuhn and Loeb." Like Schiff, Kuhn and Loeb were immigrants from German Jewish ghettos. They came to the U.S. in the mid 1840s and both of them started their business careers as itinerant pack-peddlers. In the early 1850s, they pooled their interests and set up a merchandise-store in Lafayette, Indiana under the firm-name of "Kuhn and Loeb" servicing the covered-wagon settlers on their way west. In the years that followed, they set up similar stores in Cincinnati and St. Louis. Then they added "pawn-brokering" to their merchandising-pursuits. From that to money-lending was a short and quick step."By the time Schiff arrived on the scene, "Kuhn and Loeb" was a well-known private banking-firm and this is the firm Jacob bought into. Shortly after he became a partner in "Kuhn and Loeb," Schiff married Loebs daughter, Teresa, then he bought out Kuhns interests and moved the firm to New York and "Kuhn and Loeb" became "Kuhn, Loeb, and Company," international bankers with Jacob Schiff, agent of the Rothschilds, ostensibly the sole owner. And throughout his career, this blend of Judas and Machiavelli, the first hierarch of the Illuminatis great conspiracy in America, posed as a generous philanthropist and a man of great holiness, the cover-up policy set forth by the Illuminati."As I have stated, the first great step of the conspiracy was to be the entrapment of our money-system. To achieve that objective, Schiff had to get full cooperation of the then big-banker elements in America, and that was easier said than done. Even in those years, Wall Street was the heart of the American money-mart and J.P. Morgan was its dictator. Next in line were the Drexels and the Biddles of Philadelphia. All the other financiers, big and little, danced to the music of those three houses, but particularly to that of Morgan. All of those three were proud, haughty, arrogant potentates."For the first few years, they viewed the little bewhiskered man from the German ghettos with utter contempt, but Jacob knew how to overcome that. He threw a few Rothschild bones to them. The said bones being distribution in America of desirable European stock and bond issues. Then he discovered that he had a still more potent weapon in his hands in the following. "It was in the decades following our Civil War that our industries began to burgeon. We had great railroads to build. The oil, mining, steel, textile industries were bursting out of their swaddling-clothes. All of that called for vast financing, much of that financing had to come from abroad. That meant the House of Rothschild and that was when Schiff came into his own. He played a very crafty game. He became the patron-saint of John D. Rockefeller, Edward R. Harriman, and Andrew Carnegie. He financed the Standard Oil Company for Rocky, the Railroad Empire for Harriman, and the Steel Empire for Carnegie. But instead of hogging all the other industries for Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, he opened the doors of the House of Rothschild to Morgan, Biddle, and Drexel. In turn, Rothschild arranged the setting-up of London, Paris, European and other branches for those three, but always in partnerships with Rothschild subordinates and Rothschild made it very clear to all those men that Schiff was to be the boss in New York."Thus at the turn of the century Schiff had a tight control of the entire banking-fraternity on Wall Street which by then, with Schiffs help, included Lehman brothers, Goldman-Sachs, and other internationalist banks that where headed by men chosen by the Rothschilds. In short, that meant control of the nations money-powers and he was then ready for the giant step - the entrapment of our national money-system."Now under our Constitution, all control of our money-system is vested solely in our Congress. Schiffs next important step was to seduce our Congress to betray that Constitutional edict by surrendering that control to the hierarchy of the Illuminatis great conspiracy. In order to legalize that surrender and thus make the people powerless to resist it, it would be necessary to have Congress enact special legislation. To accomplish that, Schiff would have to infiltrate stooges into both houses of Congress. Stooges powerful enough to railroad Congress into passing such legislation. Equally, or even more important, he would have to plant a stooge in the White House, a president that is without integrity and without scruples, who would sign that legislation into law. To accomplish that he had to get control of either the Republican or the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party was the more vulnerable, it was the hungrier of the two parties. Except for Grover Cleveland, the Democrats had been unable to land one of their men in the White House since before the Civil War. There were two reasons for that: 1. Poverty of the Party2. There were considerably more Republican-minded voters than Democrats "The poverty matter was not a great problem, but the voter problem was a different story. But as I previously said, Schiff was a smart cookie. Here is the atrocious and murderous method he employed to solve that voter problem. His solution emphasizes how very little the Jewish internationalist bankers care about their own racial brethren as you shall see. Suddenly, around 1890, there broke out a nationwide series of pogroms in Russia. Many, many, thousands of innocent Jews, men, women, and children were slaughtered by the Cossacks and other peasants. Similar pogroms with similar slaughter of innocent Jews broke-out in Poland, Rumania, and Bulgaria. All those pogroms were fomented by Rothschild agents. As a result, the Jewish terrified refugees, from all of those nations, swarmed into the United States and that continued throughout the next two or three decades, because the pogroms were continuous through all those years. All those refugees were aided by self-styled humanitarian-committees set up by Schiff, the Rothschilds, and all the Rothschild affiliates."In the main, the refugees streamed into New York, but the Schiff-Rothschild humanitarian-committees found ways to shuffle many of them into other large cities such as Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Los Angeles, etc.. All of them were quickly transformed into "naturalized-citizens" and educated to register as Democrats. Thus all of that so-called minority-group became solid Democratic voter-blocks in their communities, all controlled and maneuvered by their so-called benefactors. And shortly after the turn of the century, they became vital factors in the political-life of our nation. That was one of the methods Schiff employed to plant men like Nelson Aldrich in our Senate and Woodrow Wilson in the White House."At this point let me remind you of another one of the important jobs that was assigned to Schiff when he was dispatched to America. I refer to the job of destroying the unity of the American people by creating minority-groups and racial-strife. By the pogrom-driven Jewish refugees entering into America, Schiff was creating a ready-made minority-group for that purpose. But the Jewish people, as a whole, made fearful by the pogroms, could not be depended upon to create the violence necessary to destroy the unity of the American people. But right within America, there was an already made-to-order, although as yet, a sleeping minority-group, the Negroes, who could be sparked into so-called demonstrations, rioting, looting, murder, and every other type of lawlessness - all that was necessary, was to incite and arouse them. Together, those two minority-groups, properly maneuvered, could be used to create exactly the "King of Strife" in America the Illuminati would need to accomplish their objective."Thus at the same time that Schiff and co-conspirators were laying their plans for the entrapment of our money-system, they were also perfecting plans to hit the unsuspecting American people with an explosive and terrifying racial upheaval that would tear the people into hate-fractions and create chaos throughout the nation, especially on all college and university campuses, all protected by Earl Warren decisions and our so-called leaders in Washington D.C. (Remember the Warren commission on the assassination of President Jack (John) F. Kennedy*). Of course, perfecting those plans requires time and infinitely-patient organizing.
"First of all, bear in mind that the so-called U.N. police-action in Korea, fought by the United States in which 150,000 of our sons were murdered and maimed, was part of the plot, just as the undeclared by Congress war in Vietnam in which our sons are dying is part of the plot, just as the plot against Rhodesia and South Africa in which our sons will be dying is part of the U.N. plot. However, the vitally important thing for all Americans, all you mothers of the boys who died in Korea and are now dying in Vietnam, to know is that our so-called leaders in Washington, who we elected to safeguard our nation and our Constitution, are the betrayers and that behind them are a comparatively small group of men whose sole-objective is to enslave the whole world of humanity in their satanic-plot of one-world government."Now in order to give you a very clear picture of this satanic-plot, I will go back to its beginning, clear back in the middle of the 18th century and name the men who put that plot into action and then bring you down to the present - todays status of that plot. Now as a matter of further intelligence, a term used by the FBI, let me clarify the meaning of the expression "he is a liberal." The enemy, meaning the one-world conspirators, have seized upon that word "liberal" as a cover-up for their activities. It sounds so innocent and so humanitarian to be liberal. Well, make sure that the person who calls himself a liberal or is described as a liberal is not, in truth, a "red.""Now then, this satanic-plot was launched back in the 1760s when it first came into existence under the name "Illuminati." This Illuminati was organized by one Adam Weishaupt, born a Jew, who was converted to Catholicism and became a Catholic priest, and then, at the behest of the then newly-organized House of Rothschild, defected and organized the Illuminati. Naturally, the Rothschilds financed that operation and every war since then, beginning with the French Revolution, has been promoted by the Illuminati operating under various names and guises. I say under various names and guises because after the Illuminati was exposed and became notorious, Weishaupt and his co-conspirators began to operate under various other names. In the United States, immediately after World War I, they set up what they called the "Council on Foreign Relations," commonly referred to as the CFR, and this CFR is actually the Illuminati in the United States and its hierarchy. The masterminds in control of the original Illuminati conspirators, were foreigners, but to conceal that fact, most of them changed their original family names to American sounding names. For example, the true name of the Dillons, Clarence and Douglas Dillon (one Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department), is Laposky. Ill come back to all this later. "There is a similar establishment of the Illuminati in England operating under the name of the "British Institute of International Affairs." (The Royal Institute of International Affairs, actually) There are similar secret Illuminati organizations in France, Germany, and other nations operating under different names and all these organizations, including the CFR, continuously set up numerous subsidiary or front-organizations that are infiltrated into every phase of the various nations affairs. But at all times, the operations of these organizations were and are masterminded and controlled by the Internationalist Bankers, they in turn were and are controlled by the Rothschilds.
(One of the prime agents in this control is through the International BAR Association and its splinter groups such as the America BAR Association. It is important to note that there are BAR Associations in nearly every nation world wide now, pushing the United Nations always. I do have a copy of the 1947 agreement that the American BAR submitted which commits the BAR to support and promote the U.N. throughout America. - David G.) "One branch of the Rothschild family had financed Napoleon, another branch of the Rothschilds financed Britain, Germany, and the other nations in the Napoleonic wars."Immediately after the Napoleonic wars, the Illuminati assumed that all the nations were so destitute and so weary of wars that theyd be glad for any solution, so the Rothschild stooges set up what they called the Congress in Vienna and at that meeting they tried to create the first League of Nations, their first attempted one-world government, on the theory that all the crowned heads of European governments were so deeply in debt to them that they would willingly or unwillingly serve as their stooges. But the Czar of Russia caught the stench of the plot and completely torpedoed it. The enraged Nathan Rothschild, then the head of the dynasty, vowed that some day he or his descendants would destroy the Czar and his entire family, and his descendants did accomplish that very threat in 1917. At this point, bear in mind that the Illuminati was not set up to operate on a short-range basis. Normally a conspirator of any type enters into a conspiracy with the expectation of achieving his objective during his own lifetime. But that was not the case with the Illuminati. True, they hoped to accomplish their objective during their lifetime, but paraphrasing "The show must go on," the Illuminati operates on the very long-range basis. Whether it will take scores of years or even centuries, they have dedicated their descendants to keep the pot boiling until they hope the conspiracy is achieved. "Now, lets go back to the birth of the Illuminati. Adam Weishaupt was a Jesuit-trained professor of canon law, teaching in Engelstock University, when he defected from Christianity to embrace the luciferian conspiracy. It was in 1770 that the professional money-lenders, the then recently organized House of Rothschild, retained him to revise and modernize the age-old protocols of Zionism, which from the outset, was designed to give the "Synagogue of Satan", so named by Jesus Christ [and who are "them which say they are Jews and are not" - Revelation /Apocalypse 2:9], ultimate world-domination so they could impose the luciferian ideology upon what would remain of the human-race after the final social-cataclysm by use of satanic despotism.
Weishaupt completed his task May 1, 1776. Now you know why May 1 is the great day with all communist nations to this very day (May 1 is also "Law Day" as declared by the American Bar Association).
(The celebration of May 1 [Baal/Bealtaine] goes much further back into history than this, and the day was picked for the ancient reasons, which comes through Paganism, Baal-worship and revolves around the worship of Satan. - David G.)
That was the day, May 1, 1776, that Weishaupt completed his plan and officially organized the Illuminati to put the plan into execution. That plan required the destruction of all existing governments and religions. That objective was to be reached by dividing the masses of people, whom he Weishaupt, termed: "goyism" [nationalism] or human cattle into opposing camps in ever increasing numbers on political, social, economic, and other issues - the very conditions we have in our country today. The opposing sides were then to be armed and incidents provided which would cause them to fight and weaken themselves and gradually destroy national governments and religious institutions. Again I say, the very conditions in the world today."And at this point let me stress a prime feature of the Illuminati plans. When and if their blueprint for world control, the Protocols Of The Elders Of Zion, is discovered and exposed, they would wipe all the Jews off the face of the earth in order to divert suspicions from themselves. If you think this is far fetched, bear in mind that they permitted Hitler, a liberal socialist himself, who was financed by corrupt Kennedy, the Warburgs, and the Rothschilds, to incinerate 600,000 Jews."Now just why did the conspirators choose the word: "Illuminati" for their satanic-organization? Weishaupt himself said that the word is derived from Lucifer and means: "holder of the light." Using the lie that his objective was to bring about a one-world government to enable those with mental ability to govern the world and prevent all wars in the future. In short, using the words: "peace on earth" as his bait, exactly as that same bait as: "peace" was used by the 1945 conspirators to force the United Nations on us, Weishaupt financed, I repeat, by the Rothschilds, recruited some 2,000 paid followers. These included the most intelligent men in the field of arts and letters, education, the sciences, finance, and industry. He then established Lodges of the Grand Orient, Masonic Lodges to be their secret headquarters and I again repeat, that in all of this he was acting under orders from the House of Rothschild. The main features of the Weishaupt plan of operation required his Illuminati to do the following things to help them to accomplish their purpose:
- Use monetary and sex bribery to obtain control of men already in high places in the various levels of all governments and other fields of endeavor. Once influential persons had fallen for the lies, deceits, and temptations of the Illuminati they were to be held in bondage by application of political and other forms of blackmail, threats of financial ruin, public exposure, and fiscal harm, even death to themselves and loved members of their families. Do you realize how many present top officials in our present government in Washington are controlled in just that way by the CFR? Do you realize how many homosexuals in our State Department, the Pentagon, all federal agencies, even in the White House are controlled that way? - Illuminati and the faculties of colleges and universities were to cultivate students possessing exceptional mental ability belonging to well-bred families with international leanings and recommend them for special training in internationalism. Such training was to be provided by granting scholarships to those selected by the Illuminatists. "That gives you an idea what a "Rhodes Scholarship" means. It means indoctrination into accepting the idea that only a one-world government can put an end to recurring wars and strife. Thats how the United Nations was sold to the American people. "One of the most notable Rhodes scholars we have in our country is Senator William J. Fulbright, sometimes referred to as half-bright. His entire voting-record spells Illuminati. All such scholars were to be first persuaded and then convinced that men of special talent and brains have the right to rule those less gifted on the ground that the masses dont know what is best for them fiscally, mentally, and spiritually. In addition to the Rhodes and similar scholarships, today there are three special Illuminati schools located in, Gordonstown in Scotland Salem in Germany Annavrighta in Greece These three are known ones, but there are others that are kept undercover. Prince Philip, the husband of Britains Queen Elizabeth, was educated at Gordonstown (as was also Prince Charles) at the instigation of Lord Louis Mountbatten, his uncle, a Rothschild relative, who became Britains Admiral of the Fleet after World War II ended. - All influential people trapped into coming under the control of the Illuminati, plus the students who had been specially educated and trained, were to be used as agents and placed behind the scenes of all governments as experts and specialists so they would advise the top executives to adopt policies which would in the long-run serve the secret plans of the Illuminati one-world conspiracy and bring about the destruction of the governments and religions they were elected or appointed to serve. Do you know how many such men operate in our government at this very time? Rusk, McNamara, Hubert Humphrey, Fulbright, Keekle, and goes on and on and on.- Perhaps the most vital directive in Weishaupts plan was to obtain absolute-control of the press, at that time the only mass-communications media, to distribute information to the public so that all news and information could be slanted so that the masses could be convinced that a one-world government is the only solution to our many and varied problems.
- Use monetary and sex bribery to obtain control of men already in high places in the various levels of all governments and other fields of endeavor. Once influential persons had fallen for the lies, deceits, and temptations of the Illuminati they were to be held in bondage by application of political and other forms of blackmail, threats of financial ruin, public exposure, and fiscal harm, even death to themselves and loved members of their families. Do you realize how many present top officials in our present government in Washington are controlled in just that way by the CFR? Do you realize how many homosexuals in our State Department, the Pentagon, all federal agencies, even in the White House are controlled that way? - Illuminati and the faculties of colleges and universities were to cultivate students possessing exceptional mental ability belonging to well-bred families with international leanings and recommend them for special training in internationalism. Such training was to be provided by granting scholarships to those selected by the Illuminatists. "That gives you an idea what a "Rhodes Scholarship" means. It means indoctrination into accepting the idea that only a one-world government can put an end to recurring wars and strife. Thats how the United Nations was sold to the American people.
"One of the most notable Rhodes scholars we have in our country is Senator William J. Fulbright, sometimes referred to as half-bright. His entire voting-record spells Illuminati. All such scholars were to be first persuaded and then convinced that men of special talent and brains have the right to rule those less gifted on the ground that the masses dont know what is best for them fiscally, mentally, and spiritually. In addition to the Rhodes and similar scholarships, today there are three special Illuminati schools located in,
Gordonstown in Scotland Salem in Germany Annavrighta in Greece
Gordonstown in Scotland
Salem in Germany
Annavrighta in Greece
These three are known ones, but there are others that are kept undercover. Prince Philip, the husband of Britains Queen Elizabeth, was educated at Gordonstown (as was also Prince Charles) at the instigation of Lord Louis Mountbatten, his uncle, a Rothschild relative, who became Britains Admiral of the Fleet after World War II ended. - All influential people trapped into coming under the control of the Illuminati, plus the students who had been specially educated and trained, were to be used as agents and placed behind the scenes of all governments as experts and specialists so they would advise the top executives to adopt policies which would in the long-run serve the secret plans of the Illuminati one-world conspiracy and bring about the destruction of the governments and religions they were elected or appointed to serve. Do you know how many such men operate in our government at this very time? Rusk, McNamara, Hubert Humphrey, Fulbright, Keekle, and goes on and on and on.- Perhaps the most vital directive in Weishaupts plan was to obtain absolute-control of the press, at that time the only mass-communications media, to distribute information to the public so that all news and information could be slanted so that the masses could be convinced that a one-world government is the only solution to our many and varied problems.
"Do you know who owns and controls our mass-communications media? Ill tell you. Practically all the movie lots in Hollywood are owned by the Lehmans, Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, Goldman-Sachs, and other internationalist bankers. All the national radio and TV channels in the nation are owned and controlled by those same internationalist bankers. The same is true of every chain of metropolitan newspapers and magazines, also of the press wire-services, such as Associated Press, United Press, International, etc.. The supposed heads of all those media are merely the fronts for the internationalist bankers, who in turn compose the hierarchy of the CFR, todays Illuminati in America. "Now can you understand why the Pentagon Press agent, Sylvester, so brazenly proclaimed that the government has the right to lie to the people. What he really meant was that our CFR controlled government had the power to lie to and be believed by the brain-washed American people."Let us again go back to the first days of the Illuminati. Because Britain and France were the two greatest world powers in the late years of the 18th Century, Weishaupt ordered the Illuminati to foment the colonial wars, including our Revolutionary War, to weaken the British Empire and organize the French Revolution to start in 1789. However, in 1784, a true act of God placed the Bavarian government in possession of evidence which proved the existence of the Illuminati and that evidence could have saved France if they, the French government, hadnt refused to believe it. Here is how that act of God happened. It was in 1784 that Weishaupt issued his orders for the French Revolution. A German writer, named Zweig, put it into book form. It contained the entire Illuminati story and Weishaupts plans.
A copy of this book was sent to the Illuminists in France headed by Robespierre whom Weishaupt had delegated to foment the French Revolution. The courier was struck and killed by lightening as he rode through Rawleston on his way from Frankfurt to Paris. The police found the subversive documents on his body and turned them over to the proper authorities. After a careful study of the plot, the Bavarian government ordered the police to raid Weishaupts newly-organized Lodges of the "Grand Orient" and the homes of his most influential associates. All additional evidence thus discovered convinced the authorities that the documents were genuine copies of the conspiracy by which the Illuminati planned to use wars and revolutions to bring about the establishment of a one-world government, the powers of which they, headed by the Rothschilds, intended to usurp as soon as it was established, exactly in line with the United Nations plot of today."In 1785, the Bavarian government outlawed the Illuminati and closed the Lodges of the "Grand Orient." In 1786, they published all the details of the conspiracy. The English title of that publication is: "The Original Writings of the Order and the Sect of the Illuminati." Copies of the entire conspiracy were sent to all the heads of church and state in Europe. But the power of the Illuminati, which was actually the power of the Rothschilds, was so great that this warning was ignored. Nevertheless, the Illuminati became a dirty word and it went underground."At the same time, Weishaupt ordered Illuminists to infiltrate into the Lodges of "Blue Masonry" and formed their own secret societies within all secret societies. Only Masons who proved themselves internationalists and those whose conduct proved they had defected from God were initiated into the Illuminati. Thenceforth, the conspirators donned the cloak of philanthropy and humanitarianism to conceal their revolutionary and subversive activities. In order to infiltrate into Masonic Lodges in Britain, Weishaupt invited John Robison over to Europe. Robison was a high-degree Mason in the "Scottish Rite." He was a professor of natural philosophy at Edinburgh University and Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Robison did not fall for the lie that the objective of the Illuminati was to create a benevolent dictatorship, but he kept his reactions to himself so well that he was entrusted with a copy of Weishaupts revised conspiracy for study and safekeeping.Anyway, because the heads of state and church in France were deluded into ignoring the warnings given them, the revolution broke out in 1789 as scheduled by Weishaupt. In order to alert other governments to their danger, in 1798, Robison published a book entitled: "Proof of a conspiracy to Destroy all Governments and Religions" but his warnings were ignored exactly as our American people have been ignoring all warnings about the United Nations and the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR).
"Now here is something that will stun and very likely outrage many who hear this, but there is documentary proof that our own Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton became students of Weishaupt. Jefferson was one of Weishaupts strongest defenders when he was outlawed by his government and it was Jefferson who infiltrated the Illuminati into the then newly-organized lodges of the "Scottish Rite" in New England. Here is the proof.
"In 1789, John Robison warned all Masonic leaders in America that the Illuminati had infiltrated into their lodges and on July 19, 1789, David Papen, President of Harvard University, issued the same warning to the graduating-class and lectured them on how the influence of Illuminism was acquitting on American politics and religion, and to top it off, John Quincy Adams, who had organized the New England Masonic Lodges, issued his warnings. He wrote three letters to Colonel William L. Stone, a top Mason, in which he exposed how Jefferson was using Masonic lodges for subversive Illuministic purposes. Those three letters are at this very time in Whittenburg Square Library in Philadelphia. In short, Jefferson, founder of the Democratic Party, was a member of the Illuminati which at least partly accounts for the condition of the party at this time and through infiltration of the Republican Party, we have exactly nothing of loyal Americanism today. That disastrous rebuff at the Congress of Vienna created by the Czar of Russia did not by any means destroy the Illuminati conspiracy. It merely forced them to adopt a new strategy realizing that the one-world idea was, for the moment, killed. The Rothschilds decided that to keep the plot alive they would have to do it by heightening their control of the money-system of the European nations."Earlier, by a ruse, the outcome of the Battle of Waterloo had been falsified, Rothschild had spread a story that Napoleon had had one bad battle, which precipitated a terrific panic on the stock-market in England. All stocks had plummeted down to practically zero and Nathan Rothschild bought all the stocks for virtually a penny on its dollar values. That gave him complete control of the economy of Britain and virtually of all Europe. So, immediately after that Congress in Vienna had boomeranged, Rothschild had forced Britain to set up a new "Bank of England", over which he had absolute control, exactly, as later through Jacob Schiff, he engineered our own "Federal Reserve Act" which gave the House of Rothschild a secret control of the economy in the United States. But now for a moment, lets dwell on the activities of the Illuminati in the United States."In 1826, one Captain William Morgan decided it was his duty to inform all Masons and the general public what the full proof was regarding the Illuminati, their secret plans, intended objectives, and to reveal the identities of the masterminds of the conspiracy. The Illuminati promptly tried Morgan in absentia and convicted him of treason. They ordered one Richard Howard, an English Illuminist, to carry-out their sentence of execution as a traitor. Morgan was warned and he tried to escape to Canada, but Howard caught up with him near the border, near the Niagara Gorge to be exact, where he murdered him. This was verified in a sworn statement made in New York by one Avery Allen to the effect that he heard Howard render his report of the execution to a meeting of "Knights Templars" in St. Johns Hall in New York. He also told how arrangements had been made to ship Howard back to England. That Allen affidavit is on record in New York City Archives. Very few Masons and very few of the general-public know that general-disapproval over that incident of murder caused approximately half of all the Masons in the northern jurisdiction of the United States to secede. Copies of the minutes of the meeting held to discuss that matter are still in existence in safe hands and that all that secrecy emphasizes the power of the masterminds of the Illuminati to prevent such terrible events of history from being taught in our schools."In the early 1850s, the Illuminati held a secret meeting in New York which was addressed by a British Illuminist named Wright. Those in attendance were told that the Illuminati was organizing to unite the Nihilist and Atheist groups with all other subversive groups into an international group to be known as Communists. That was when the word: "communist" first came into being and it was intended to be the supreme weapon and scare-word to terrify the whole world and drive the terrorized peoples into the Illuminati one-world scheme. This scheme: "communism," was to be used to enable the Illuminati to foment future wars and revolutions. Clinton Roosevelt, a direct ancestor of Franklin Roosevelt, Horace Greeley, and Charles Dana, foremost newspaper-publishers of that time were appointed to head a committee to raise funds for the new venture. Of course, most of the funds were provided by the Rothschilds and this fund was used to finance Karl Marx and Engels when they wrote "Das Kapital" and the "Communist Manifesto" in Soho, England. And this clearly reveals that communism is not a so-called ideology, but a secret weapon, a bogy-man word to serve the purpose of the Illuminati. "Weishaupt died in 1830, but prior to his death, he prepared a revised version of the age-old conspiracy, the Illuminati, which under various aliases was to organize, finance, direct, and control all international organizations and groups by working their agents into executive positions at the top. In the United States we have Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Jack Kennedy, Johnson, Rusk, McNamara, Fulbright, George Bush etc., as prime examples. In addition, while Karl Marx was writing the "Communist Manifesto" under the director of one group of Illuminists, Professor Karl Ritter of Frankfurt University was writing the antithesis under the direction of another group. The idea was that those who direct the overall conspiracy could use the differences in those two so-called ideologies to enable them to divide larger and larger numbers of the human-race into opposing camps so that they could be armed and then brainwashed into fighting and destroying each other. And particularly, to destroy all political and religious institutions. The work Ritter started was continued after his death and completed by the German so-called philosopher Freidrich Wilhelm Nietzsche who founded Nietzscheanism. This Nietzscheanism was later developed into Fascism and then into Nazism and was used to foment World War I and II."In 1834, the Italian revolutionary leader, Guiseppe Mazzini, was selected by the Illuminati to direct their revolutionary program throughout the world. He served in that capacity until he died in 1872, but some years before he died, Mazzini had enticed an American General named Albert Pike into the Illuminati. Pike was fascinated by the idea of a one-world government and ultimately he became the head of this luciferian conspiracy. Between 1859 and 1871 he, Pike, worked out a military-blueprint for three world wars and various revolutions throughout the world which he considered would forward the conspiracy to its final stage in the 20th century. Again I remind you that these conspirators were never concerned with immediate success. They also operated on a long-range view. Pike did most of his work in his home in Little Rock, Arkansas. But a few years later, when the Illuminatis Lodges of the Grand Orient became suspect and repudiated because of Mazzinis revolutionary activities in Europe, Pike organized what he called the New and Reformed Palladian Right. He set up three Supreme Councils, one in Charleston, South Carolina, one in Rome, Italy, and a third in Berlin, Germany. He had Mazzini establish 23 subordinate councils in strategic locations throughout the world. These have been the secret headquarters of the world revolutionary movement ever since."Long before Marconi invented the radio, the scientists in the Illuminati had found the means for Pike and the heads of his councils to communicate secretly. It was the discovery of that secret that enabled intelligence-officers to understand how apparently unrelated incidents, such as the assassination of an Austrian Prince in Serbia, took place simultaneously throughout the world, which developed into a war or a revolution. Pikes plan was as simple as it has proved effective. It called for communism, nazism, political zionism, and other international movements to be organized and used to foment three global world wars and at least two major revolutions."The first world war was to be fought so as to enable the Illuminati to destroy Czarism in Russia, as vowed by Rothschild after the Czar had torpedoed his scheme at the Congress in Vienna, and to transform Russia into a stronghold of atheistic-communism. The differences stirred up by agents of the Illuminati between the British and German Empires were to be used to foment this war. After the war would be ended, communism was to be built up and used to destroy other governments and weaken religions."World War II, when and if necessary, was to be fomented by using the controversies between Fascists and political zionists, and here let it be noted that Hitler was financed by Krupp, the Warburgs, the Rothschilds, and other internationalist bankers and that the slaughter of the supposed 6,000,000 Jews by Hitler didnt bother the Jewish internationalist bankers at all. That slaughter was necessary in order to create worldwide-hatred of the German people and thus bring about war against them. In short, this second world war was to be fought to destroy nazism and increase the power of political Zionism so that the state of Israel could be established in Palestine."During this World War II, international communism was to be built up until it equaled in strength that of united Christendom. When it reached that point, it was to be contained and kept in check until required for the final social-cataclysm. As we know now, Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin put that exact policy into effect and Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and George Bush continued that same exact policy."World War III is to be fomented, using the so-called controversies, by the agents of the Illuminati operating under whatever new name, that are now being stored up between the political Zionists and the leaders of the Moslem world. That war is to be directed in such a manner that all of Islam and political Zionism (Israelis) will destroy each other while at the same time, the remaining nations, once more divided on this issue, will be forced to fight themselves into a state of complete exhaustion, physically, mentally, spiritually, and economically. "Now can any thinking person doubt that the intrigue now going on in the near Middle and Far-East is designed to accomplish that satanic objective? Pike himself foretold all this in a statement he made to Mazzini on August 15, 1871. Pike stated that after World War III is ended, those who will aspire to undisputed world-domination will provoke the greatest social-cataclysm the world has ever known. Quoting his own words taken from the letter he wrote to Mazzini and which letter is now catalogued in the British Museum in London, England, he said:"We shall unleash the nihilists and the atheists and we shall provoke a great social-cataclysm which in all its horror will show clearly to all nations the effect of absolute-atheism, the origins of savagery and of most bloody turmoil. Then everywhere, the people will be forced to defend themselves against the world-minority of the world-revolutionaries and will exterminate those destroyers of civilization and the multitudes disillusioned with Christianity whose spirits will be from that moment without direction and leadership and anxious for an ideal, but without knowledge where to send its adoration, will receive the true light through the universal-manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer brought finally out into public view.
A manifestation which will result from a general reactionary movement which will follow the destruction of Christianity and Atheism, both conquered and exterminated at the same time." "When Mazzini died in 1872, Pike made another revolutionary leader named Adrian Lemmy, his successor. Lemmy, in turn, was succeeded by Lenin and Trotsky, then by Stalin. The revolutionary activities of all those men were financed by British, French, German, and American international bankers, all of them dominated by the House of Rothschild. We are supposed to believe that the international bankers of today, like the money-changers of Christs day, are only the tools or agents of the great conspiracy, but actually they are the masterminds behind all the mass-communications media leading us into believing that communism is a movement of the so-called workers, the actual fact is that both British and American intelligence-officers have authentic documentary-evidence that international liberals, operating through their international banking houses, particularly the House of Rothschild, have financed both sides of every war and revolution since 1776."Those who today comprise the conspiracy (the CFR in the United States and the RIIA in Britain), direct our governments whom they hold in usury through such methods as the Federal Reserve System in America to fight wars, such as Vietnam (created by the United Nations), so as to further Pikes Illuminati plans to bring the world to that stage of the conspiracy when atheistic-communism and the whole of Christianity can be forced into an all-out third world war within each remaining nation as well as on an international basis scale."The headquarters of the great conspiracy in the late 1700s was in Frankfurt, Germany where the House of Rothschild had been established by Mayar (or Mayer) Amschel who adopted the Rothschild name and linked together other international financiers who had literally sold their souls to the devil. After the Bavarian governments exposure in 1786, the conspirators moved their headquarters to Switzerland then to London. Since World War II (after Jacob Schiff, the Rothschilds boy in America died), the headquarters of the American branch has been in the Harold Pratt Building in New York City and the Rockefellers, originally proteges of Schiff, have taken over the manipulation of finances in America for the Illuminati."In the final phases of the conspiracy, the one-world government will consist of the king-dictator, the head of the United Nations, the CFR, and a few billionaires, economists, and scientists who have proved their devotion to the great conspiracy. All others are to be integrated into a vast conglomeration of mongrelized humanity, actually slaves. Now let me show you how our federal government and the American people have been sucked into the one-world take over plot of the Illuminati great conspiracy and always bear in mind, that the United Nations was created to become the housing for that one-world, so-called, liberal conspiracy. The real foundations of the plot of the takeover of the United States were laid during the period of our Civil War. Not that Weishaupt and the earlier masterminds had ever overlooked the new world, as I have previously indicated, Weishaupt had his agents planted over here as far back as the Revolutionary War."It was during the Civil War that the conspirators launched their first concrete efforts. We know that Judah Benjamin, chief advisor of Jefferson Davis, was a Rothschild agent. We also know that there were Rothschild agents planted in Abraham Lincolns cabinet who tried to sell him into a financial dealing with the House of Rothschild. But old Abe saw through the scheme and bluntly rejected it thereby incurring the undying enmity of the Rothschilds, exactly as the Russian Czar did when he torpedoed their first League of Nations at the Congress in Vienna. Investigation of the assassination of Lincoln revealed that the assassin Booth was a member of a secret conspiratorial group. Because there were a number of highly-important government-officials involved, the name of the group was never revealed and it became a mystery, exactly as the assassination of Jack (John F.) Kennedy is still a mystery. But I am sure it will not remain a mystery for long. Anyway, the ending of the Civil War destroyed temporarily all chances of the House of Rothschild to get a clutch on our money-system, such as they had acquired in Britain and other nations in Europe. I say temporarily because the Rothschilds and the masterminds of the conspiracy never quit, so they had to start from scratch, but they lost no time in getting started."Shortly after the Civil War, a young immigrant, who called himself Jacob H. Schiff, arrived in New York. Jacob was a young man with a mission for the House of Rothschild. Jacob was the son of a Rabbi who was born in one of the Rothschilds houses in Frankfurt, Germany. I will go deeply into his background. The important point was that Rothschild recognized in him, not only a potential money wizard, but more important, he also saw the latent Machiavellian qualities in Jacob, that could, as it did, make him an invaluable functionary in the great one-world conspiracy. After a comparatively brief training-period in the Rothschilds London Bank, Jacob left for America with instructions to buy into a banking-house which was to be the springboard to acquire control of the money-system of the United States. Actually, Jacob came here to carry out four specific assignments.
1. And most important, was to acquire control of Americas money-system2. Find desirable men, who for a price, would be willing to serve as stooges for the great conspiracy and promote them into high places in our federal government, our Congress, and the U.S. Supreme Court, and all federal agencies 3. Create minority-group strife throughout the nations, particularly between the whites and blacks4. Create a movement to destroy religion in the United States, but Christianity to be the chief target
"Earlier I stated that Jacob Schiff came to America with orders by Rothschild to carry out four specific directives. The first and most important one was to get control of the United States money-system. Lets trace Schiffs step to accomplish that directive. As a first step he had to buy into a banking-house, but it had to be the kind of a house that he could absolutely control and mold for that primary-objective of entrapping our U.S. money-system. After carefully scouting around, Jacob bought a partnership in a firm that called itself: "Kuhn and Loeb." Like Schiff, Kuhn and Loeb were immigrants from German Jewish ghettos. They came to the U.S. in the mid 1840s and both of them started their business careers as itinerant pack-peddlers. In the early 1850s, they pooled their interests and set up a merchandise-store in Lafayette, Indiana under the firm-name of "Kuhn and Loeb" servicing the covered-wagon settlers on their way west. In the years that followed, they set up similar stores in Cincinnati and St. Louis. Then they added "pawn-brokering" to their merchandising-pursuits. From that to money-lending was a short and quick step."By the time Schiff arrived on the scene, "Kuhn and Loeb" was a well-known private banking-firm and this is the firm Jacob bought into. Shortly after he became a partner in "Kuhn and Loeb," Schiff married Loebs daughter, Teresa, then he bought out Kuhns interests and moved the firm to New York and "Kuhn and Loeb" became "Kuhn, Loeb, and Company," international bankers with Jacob Schiff, agent of the Rothschilds, ostensibly the sole owner. And throughout his career, this blend of Judas and Machiavelli, the first hierarch of the Illuminatis great conspiracy in America, posed as a generous philanthropist and a man of great holiness, the cover-up policy set forth by the Illuminati."As I have stated, the first great step of the conspiracy was to be the entrapment of our money-system. To achieve that objective, Schiff had to get full cooperation of the then big-banker elements in America, and that was easier said than done. Even in those years, Wall Street was the heart of the American money-mart and J.P. Morgan was its dictator. Next in line were the Drexels and the Biddles of Philadelphia. All the other financiers, big and little, danced to the music of those three houses, but particularly to that of Morgan. All of those three were proud, haughty, arrogant potentates."For the first few years, they viewed the little bewhiskered man from the German ghettos with utter contempt, but Jacob knew how to overcome that. He threw a few Rothschild bones to them. The said bones being distribution in America of desirable European stock and bond issues. Then he discovered that he had a still more potent weapon in his hands in the following.
"It was in the decades following our Civil War that our industries began to burgeon. We had great railroads to build. The oil, mining, steel, textile industries were bursting out of their swaddling-clothes. All of that called for vast financing, much of that financing had to come from abroad. That meant the House of Rothschild and that was when Schiff came into his own. He played a very crafty game. He became the patron-saint of John D. Rockefeller, Edward R. Harriman, and Andrew Carnegie. He financed the Standard Oil Company for Rocky, the Railroad Empire for Harriman, and the Steel Empire for Carnegie. But instead of hogging all the other industries for Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, he opened the doors of the House of Rothschild to Morgan, Biddle, and Drexel. In turn, Rothschild arranged the setting-up of London, Paris, European and other branches for those three, but always in partnerships with Rothschild subordinates and Rothschild made it very clear to all those men that Schiff was to be the boss in New York."Thus at the turn of the century Schiff had a tight control of the entire banking-fraternity on Wall Street which by then, with Schiffs help, included Lehman brothers, Goldman-Sachs, and other internationalist banks that where headed by men chosen by the Rothschilds. In short, that meant control of the nations money-powers and he was then ready for the giant step - the entrapment of our national money-system."Now under our Constitution, all control of our money-system is vested solely in our Congress. Schiffs next important step was to seduce our Congress to betray that Constitutional edict by surrendering that control to the hierarchy of the Illuminatis great conspiracy. In order to legalize that surrender and thus make the people powerless to resist it, it would be necessary to have Congress enact special legislation. To accomplish that, Schiff would have to infiltrate stooges into both houses of Congress. Stooges powerful enough to railroad Congress into passing such legislation. Equally, or even more important, he would have to plant a stooge in the White House, a president that is without integrity and without scruples, who would sign that legislation into law. To accomplish that he had to get control of either the Republican or the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party was the more vulnerable, it was the hungrier of the two parties. Except for Grover Cleveland, the Democrats had been unable to land one of their men in the White House since before the Civil War. There were two reasons for that:
1. Poverty of the Party2. There were considerably more Republican-minded voters than Democrats
"The poverty matter was not a great problem, but the voter problem was a different story. But as I previously said, Schiff was a smart cookie. Here is the atrocious and murderous method he employed to solve that voter problem. His solution emphasizes how very little the Jewish internationalist bankers care about their own racial brethren as you shall see. Suddenly, around 1890, there broke out a nationwide series of pogroms in Russia. Many, many, thousands of innocent Jews, men, women, and children were slaughtered by the Cossacks and other peasants. Similar pogroms with similar slaughter of innocent Jews broke-out in Poland, Rumania, and Bulgaria. All those pogroms were fomented by Rothschild agents. As a result, the Jewish terrified refugees, from all of those nations, swarmed into the United States and that continued throughout the next two or three decades, because the pogroms were continuous through all those years. All those refugees were aided by self-styled humanitarian-committees set up by Schiff, the Rothschilds, and all the Rothschild affiliates."In the main, the refugees streamed into New York, but the Schiff-Rothschild humanitarian-committees found ways to shuffle many of them into other large cities such as Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Los Angeles, etc.. All of them were quickly transformed into "naturalized-citizens" and educated to register as Democrats. Thus all of that so-called minority-group became solid Democratic voter-blocks in their communities, all controlled and maneuvered by their so-called benefactors. And shortly after the turn of the century, they became vital factors in the political-life of our nation. That was one of the methods Schiff employed to plant men like Nelson Aldrich in our Senate and Woodrow Wilson in the White House."At this point let me remind you of another one of the important jobs that was assigned to Schiff when he was dispatched to America. I refer to the job of destroying the unity of the American people by creating minority-groups and racial-strife. By the pogrom-driven Jewish refugees entering into America, Schiff was creating a ready-made minority-group for that purpose. But the Jewish people, as a whole, made fearful by the pogroms, could not be depended upon to create the violence necessary to destroy the unity of the American people. But right within America, there was an already made-to-order, although as yet, a sleeping minority-group, the Negroes, who could be sparked into so-called demonstrations, rioting, looting, murder, and every other type of lawlessness - all that was necessary, was to incite and arouse them. Together, those two minority-groups, properly maneuvered, could be used to create exactly the "King of Strife" in America the Illuminati would need to accomplish their objective."Thus at the same time that Schiff and co-conspirators were laying their plans for the entrapment of our money-system, they were also perfecting plans to hit the unsuspecting American people with an explosive and terrifying racial upheaval that would tear the people into hate-fractions and create chaos throughout the nation, especially on all college and university campuses, all protected by Earl Warren decisions and our so-called leaders in Washington D.C. (Remember the Warren commission on the assassination of President Jack (John) F. Kennedy*). Of course, perfecting those plans requires time and infinitely-patient organizing.
* NOTE: Jack Kennedy, during his term of office as the President of the United States, became a Christian. In his attempt to "repent," he tried to inform the people of this Nation (at least twice) that the Office of the President of the United States was being manipulated by the Illuminati/CFR. At the same time, he put a stop to the "borrowing" of Federal Reserve Notes from the Federal Reserve Bank and began issuing United States Notes (which was interest-free) on the credit of the United States. It was the issuing of the United States Notes that caused Jack Kennedy to be "assassinated." Upon taking the Oath of Office, Lynden B. Johnson stopped the issuing of the United States Notes and went back to borrowing Federal Reserve Bank Notes (which were loaned to the people of the United States at the going rate of interest of 17%). The U.S. Notes, that were issued under John F. Kennedy, were of the 1963 series which bore a "Red" seal on the face of the "Note."
"Now to remove all doubts, Ill take a few moments to give you the documentary proof of this racial-strife plot. First of all they had to create the leadership and organizations to draw in millions of dupes, both Jewish and Negroes, who would do the demonstrating and commit the rioting, looting, and lawlessness. So in 1909, Schiff, the Lehmans, and other conspirators, organized and set up the "National Association for the Advancement of the Coloured People" known as the "NAACP." The presidents, directors, and legal councils of the NAACP were always "white men Jews" appointed by Schiff and this is the case to this very day."Then in 1913, the Schiff group organized the "Anti-defamation League of the Bnai Brith" commonly known as the "ADL" to serve as the gestapo and hatchet-man outfit for the entire great conspiracy. Today the sinister "ADL" maintains over 2,000 agencies in all parts of our country and they advise and completely control every action of the "NAACP" or of the "Urban League" of all the other so-called Negro civil-rights organizations throughout the nation including such leaders as Martin Luther King, Stockely Carmichael, Barnard Rustin, and others of the ilk. In addition, the "ADL" acquired absolute control of the advertising-budgets of many department-stores, hotel-chains, and TV and Radio industrialist sponsors, also advertising-agencies in order to control practically all the mass-communications media and force every loyal newspaper to slant and falsify the news and to further incite, and, at the same time create sympathy for, the lawlessness and violence of the Negro mobs. Here is documentary proof of the beginning of their deliberate plot to foment the Negroes into all their lawlessness."Around 1910, one Israel Zangwill wrote a play entitled "The Melting-Pot." It was sheer propaganda to incite the Negroes and Jews because the play purportedly visualized how the American people were discriminating against, and persecuting Jews and Negroes. At that time nobody seemed to realize that it was a propaganda play. It was that cleverly-written. The propaganda was well wrapped-up in the truly great entertainment in the play and it was a big Broadway Hit. "Now in those years, the legendary Diamond Jim Brady used to throw a banquet at the famous Delmonico Restaurant in New York after the opening-performance of a popular play. He threw such a party for the cast of "The Melting-Pot," its author, producer, and chosen Broadway-celebrities. By then Id already made a personal mark on the Broadway Theater and was invited to that party. There I met George Bernard Shaw and a Jewish writer named Israel Cohen. Zangwill, Shaw, and Cohen were the ones who created the Fabian Society in England and had worked closely with a Frankfurt Jew named Mordicai who had changed his name to Karl Marx, but remember, at that time both Marxism and Communism were just emerging and nobody paid much attention to either and nobody suspected the propaganda in the writings of those three really brilliant writers."At that banquet, Israel Cohen told me that he was then engaged in writing a book which was to be a follow-up on Zangwills "The Melting-Pot." The title of his book was to be "A Racial-Program for the 20th Century." At that time I was completely absorbed by my work as a playwright, and significant as that title was, its real-objective never dawned on me nor was I interested in reading the book. But it suddenly hit me with the force of a hydrogen-bomb when I received a newspaper-clipping of an item published by the Washington D.C. Evening Star in May 1957. That item was a verbatim reprint of the following excerpt in Israel Cohens book "A Racial-Program for the 20th Century" and it read as I quote: "We must realize that our partys most powerful weapon is racial-tension. By propounding into the consciousness of the dark races, that for centuries they have been oppressed by the whites, we can move them to the program of the communist party. In America, we will aim for subtle victory. While inflaming the Negro minority against the whites, we will instill in the whites a guilt-complex for their exploitation of the Negroes. We will aid the Negroes to rise to prominence in every walk of life, in the professions, and in the world of sports and entertainment. With this prestige, the Negro will be able to intermarry with the whites and begin a process which will deliver America to our cause." Record of June 7, 1957, by Representative Thomas G. Abernethy. "Thus the authenticity of that passage in Cohens book was fully established. But the one question that remained in my mind was whether it represented the official policy or plot of the Communist Party or just a personal expression of Cohen himself. Hence I sought more proof and I found it in an official pamphlet published in 1935 by the New York Communist Partys official Workers Library Publishers. That pamphlet was entitled: "The Negroes in a Soviet America." It urged the Negroes to rise-up, form a soviet-state in the south, and apply for admission to the Soviet Union. It contained a firm pledge that the revolt would be supported by all American "reds" and all so-called "liberals". On page 38, it promised that a Soviet government would confer greater benefits to Negroes than to whites and again this official communist pamphlet pledged that, I quote: "any act of discrimination or prejudice against a Negro will become a crime under the revolutionary law." That statement proved that the excerpt in Israel Cohens book published in 1913 was an official-edict of the Communist Party and directly in line with the Illuminati-blueprint for world-revolution issued by Weishaupt and later by Albert Pike."Now theres only one question and that is to prove that the communist regime is directly controlled by the American Jacob Schiff and London Rothschild masterminds of the great conspiracy. A little later I will provide that proof that will remove even a remote doubt that the Communist Party, as we know it, was created by those masterminds (capitalists if you will note), Schiff, the Warburgs, and the Rothschilds that planned and financed the entire Russian Revolution, the murder of the Czar and his family, and that Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin took their orders directly from Schiff and the other capitalists whom they supposedly are fighting."Now can you see why the vile Earl Warren and his equally vile co-Supreme Court justices issued that infamous and treasonous desegregation-decision in 1954? It was to aid and abet the plot of the Illuminati conspirators to create tension and strife between the Negroes and Whites. Can you see why the same Earl Warren issued his decision prohibiting Christian-prayers and Christmas-carols in our schools? Why Kennedy did likewise? And can you see why Johnson and 66 Senators, despite the protests of 90% of the American people, voted for the "Consular Treaty" which opens our entire country to Russian spies and saboteurs? All those 66 Senators are 20th century Benedict Arnolds."It is up to you and you, all of the American people, to force Congress, our elected servants, to haul in those American traitors for impeachments and that when proven guilty, they all be given the punishment prescribed for traitors who aid and abet our enemies. And that includes the enforcing of rigid investigations by Congress of the "CFR" and all their fronts, such as the "ADL," the "NAACP," "SNIC," and such Illuminati tools as Martin Luther King*. Such investigations will completely unmask all the leaders in Washington, D.C. and the Illuminati and all their affiliations and affiliates as traitors carrying-out the Illuminati plot. It will completely unmask the United Nations as the intended crux of the entire plot and force Congress to take the U.S. out of the U.N. and hurl the U.N. out of the U.S.. In fact, it will destroy the U.N. and the entire plot. "Before I close this phase, I wish to reiterate and stress one vital point which I urge you to never forget if you wish to save our country for your children and their children. Here is the point. Every unconstitutional and unlawful act committed by Woodrow Wilson, by Franklin Roosevelt, by Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy and that are now being committed by Johnson (and today, George Bush and Bill Clinton) is exactly in line with the Illuminati conspirators centuries-old plot outlined by Weishaupt and Albert Pike. Every vicious decision issued by the traitorous Earl Warren and his equally-traitorous Supreme Court justices was directly in line with what the Illuminati-blueprint required. That all the treason committed by our State Department under Rusk and earlier by John Foster Dulles, and Marshall, also all the treason committed by McNamara and his predecessors is directly in line with that same Illuminati-blueprint for the takeover of the world. Also the amazing treason by various members of our Congress, especially by the 66 Senators who signed for the Consular Treaty, has been committed on orders from the Illuminati."Now I will go back to Jacob Schiffs entrapment of our money-system and the treasonous actions that followed. It will also reveal the Schiff-Rothschild control of not only Karl Marx, but of Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, who created the revolution in Russia and set up the Communist Party."It was in 1908 that Schiff decided that the time had come for his seizure of our money-system. His chief lieutenants in that seizure were Colonel Edward Mandell House whose entire career was that of chief executive and courier for Schiff as I shall show and Bernard Berouk and Herbert Lehman. In the Fall (Autumn) of that year, they assembled in secret conclave at the Jeckle Island Hunt Club, owned by J.P. Morgan at Jeckle Island, Georgia. Among those present were J.P. Morgan, John B. Rockefeller, Colonel House, Senator Nelson Aldrich, Schiff, Stillman and Vandlelip of the New York National City Bank, W. and J. Seligman, Eugene Myer, Bernard Berouk, Herbert Lehman, Paul Warburg, in short, all of the international bankers in America. All of them members of the hierarchy of the Illuminatis great conspiracy."A week later they emerged with what they called the Federal Reserve System. Senator Aldrich was the stooge who was to railroad it through Congress, but they held that railroading in abeyance for one chief reason, they would first have to plant their man and obedient stooge in the White House to sign the Federal Reserve Act into law. They knew that even if the Senate would pass that act unanimously, the then newly elected President Taft would promptly veto it. So they waited."In 1912, their man, Woodrow Wilson, was elected to the presidency. Immediately after Wilson was inaugurated, Senator Aldrich railroaded the Federal Reserve Act through both houses of Congress and Wilson promptly signed it and the Federal Reserve Act became law. That heinous act of treason was committed on December 23, 1913, two days before Christmas when all the members of Congress, except for several carefully picked Representatives and three equally carefully picked Senators, were away from Washington. How heinous treasonous was that act? Ill tell you. Our founding-fathers knew full-well the power of money. They knew that whoever had that power held the destiny of our nation in his hands. Therefore, they carefully guarded this power when they set forth in the Constitution, that Congress, the elected representatives of the people, alone would have the power. The Constitutional-language on this point is brief, concise, and specific, stated in Article I, Section 8, Paragraph 5, defining the duties and powers of Congress, and I quote: "to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and the standard of weights and measures." But on that tragic, unforgettable day of infamy, December 23, 1913, the men we sent to Washington to safeguard our interests, the Representatives, Senators, and Woodrow Wilson, delivered the destiny of our nation into the hands of two aliens from Eastern Europe, Jacob Schiff and Paul Warburg. Warburg was a very recent immigrant who came here on orders from Rothschild for the express purpose of blueprinting that foul Federal Reserve Act."Now the vast majority of the American people think that the Federal Reserve System is an United States Government owned agency. That is positively false. All of the stock of the federal reserve banks is owned by the member banks and the heads of the member banks are all members of the hierarchy of the great Illuminati conspiracy known today as the "CFR." "The details of that act of treason, in which many traitorous so-called Americans participated, are far too long for this reporting, but all those details are available in a book entitled, "The Federal Reserve Conspiracy," written by Eustace Mullins. In that book, Mullins tells the entire horrifying story and backs it up with unquestionable documentations. Aside from it being a truly fascinating and shocking story of that great betrayal, every American should read it as a matter of vital intelligence for the time when the whole American people will finally come awake and smash the entire conspiracy and with Gods help, that awakening will surely come."Now if you think that those aliens and their by accident-of-birth American co-conspirators would be content with just the control of our money-system, you are in for another very sad shock. The Federal Reserve System gave the conspirators complete control of our money-system, but it in no way touched the earnings of the people because the Constitution positively forbids what is now known as the 20%+ withholding tax. But the Illuminati-blueprint for one-world-enslavement called for the confiscation of all private property and control of individual earning-powers. This, and Karl Marx stressed that feature in his blueprint, had to be accomplished by a progressive graduated income-tax. As I have stated, such a tax could not lawfully be imposed upon the American people. It is succinctly and expressly forbidden by our Constitution. Thus, only an Amendment to the Constitution could give the federal government such confiscatory-powers."Well, that too was not an insurmountable problem for our Machiavellian plotters. The same elected leaders in both houses of Congress and the same Mr. Woodrow Wilson, who signed the infamous Federal Reserve Act into law, amended the Constitution to make the federal income-tax, known as the 16th Amendment, a law of the land. Both are illegal under our Constitution. In short, the same traitors signed both betrayals, the Federal Reserve Act and the 16th Amendment, into law. However, it seems that nobody ever realized that the 16th amendment was set up to rob, and I do mean rob, the people of their earnings via the income-tax provision."The plotters didnt fully use the provision until World War II when that great humanitarian, Franklin Roosevelt, applied a 20% withholding-tax on all small wage-earners and up to 90% on higher incomes. Oh, of course, he faithfully promised that it would be only for the duration of the war, but what was a promise to such a charlatan who in 1940, when he was running for his third term, kept proclaiming: "I say again and again and again that I will never send American boys to fight on foreign soil." Remember, he was proclaiming that statement even as he was already preparing to plunge us into World War II by enticing the Japanese into that sneak-attack on Pearl Harbor to furnish him with his excuse."And before I forget, let me remind you that another charlatan named Woodrow Wilson used exactly that same campaign-slogan in 1916. His slogan was: "Re-elect the man who will keep your sons out of the war," exactly the same formula, exactly the same promises. But wait, as Al Jolson used to say: "you aint heard nothin yet." That 16th Amendment income-tax trap was intended to confiscate and rob the earnings of the common herd, you and me. It was not intended to even touch the huge incomes of the Illuminati gang, the Rockefellers, the Carnegies, the Lehmans, and all the other conspirators. "So together, with that 16th Amendment, they created what they called the "tax-free foundations" that would enable the conspirators to transform their huge wealth into such so-called "foundations" and avoid payment of virtually all income-taxes. The excuse for it was that the earnings of those "tax-free foundations" would be devoted to humanitarian-philanthropy. So we now have the several Rockefeller Foundations, the Carnegie and Dowman Fund, the Ford Foundation, the Mellon Foundation, and hundreds of similar "tax-free foundations." "And what kind of philanthropy do these foundations support? Well, they finance all the civil-rights groups (and conservation-movements) that are creating all the chaos and rioting all over the country. They finance the Martin Luther Kings. The Ford Foundation finances the "Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions" in Santa Barbara, commonly referred to as Moscow West, and which is headed by Wonder Boy Hutchens, Walter Ruther, Erwin Cahnam and others of that ilk. "In short, the "tax-free foundations" financed those who are doing the job for the Illuminatis great conspiracy. And what are the hundreds of billions of dollars they confiscate every year from the earnings of the common herd, you and me, used for? Well, for one thing, there is the "foreign aid" gimmick which gave billions to communist Tito plus gifts of hundreds of jet-planes, many of which were turned over to Castro, plus the costs of training communist pilots so that they can better shoot down our planes. Billions to red Poland. Billions to India. Billions to Sucarno. Billions to other enemies of the United States. Thats what that treasonous railroaded 16th Amendment has done to our nation and to the American people, to you and to me, to your children and their children. "Our CFR Illuminati-controlled federal government can grant "tax-free status" to all foundations and pro-red one-world outfits, such as the "Fund for the Republic." But if you or a patriotic pro-organization is too outspokenly pro-American, they can terrify and intimidate you by finding a misplaced comma in your income-tax-report and by threatening you with penalties, fines, and even prison. Future historians will wonder how the American people could have been so naive and stupid as to have permitted such audacious brazen acts of treason as the "Federal Reserve Act" and the "16th Amendment." Well, they were not naive and they were not stupid. The answer is: they trusted the men they elected to safeguard our country and our people, and they just didnt have even an inkling about either betrayal, until after each one had been accomplished."It was the Illuminati-controlled mass-communications media that has kept and is keeping our people naive and stupid and unaware of the treason being committed. Now the great question is: "when will the people wake up and do to our traitors of today what George Washington and our founding-fathers would have done to Benedict Arnold?" Actually, Benedict Arnold was a petty-traitor compared to our present traitors in Washington D.C.. Now lets go back to the events that followed the rape of our Constitution by the passage of the Federal Reserve Act and the 16th Amendment. Was Wilson completely under their control?"The masterminds of the great conspiracy put in motion their next and what they hoped would be their final steps to achieve their one-world government. The first of those steps was to be World War I. Why War? Simple, the only excuse for a one-world government was that it will supposedly ensure peace. The only thing that can make people cry for peace is war. War brings chaos, destruction, exhaustion, to the winner as well as to the loser. It brings economic-ruin to both. Most important, it destroys the flower of the young manhood of both. To the saddened and heartbroken oldsters (the mothers and fathers) who are left with nothing but memories of their beloved sons, peace becomes worth any price and that is the emotion upon which the conspirators depend for the success of their satanic plot."Throughout the 19th century, from 1814 to 1914, the world, as a whole, was at peace. Such wars as the "Franco-Prussian," our own "Civil War", the "Russo-Japanese War," were what might be termed "local-disturbances" that did not affect the rest of the world. All the great nations were prosperous and the people were staunchly nationalistic and fiercely-proud of their sovereignties. It was utterly-unthinkable that the French and the German peoples would be willing to live under a "one-world government", or the "Toks" and the "Russians," the "Chinese," or the "Japanese." Even more unthinkable is that a Kaiser Wilhelm or a Franz Joseph or a Czar Nicholas or any Monarch would willingly and meekly surrender his throne to a one-world government. But bear in mind that the peoples in all nations are the real power and "war" the only thing that could make the peoples yearn and clamor for "peace", ensuring a one-world government. But it would have to be a frightful and horribly devastating war. It could not be just a local-disturbing war between just two nations, it would have to be a "world war." No major nation must be left untouched by the horrors and devastation of such a war. The cry for "peace" must be made universal.
"Now to remove all doubts, Ill take a few moments to give you the documentary proof of this racial-strife plot. First of all they had to create the leadership and organizations to draw in millions of dupes, both Jewish and Negroes, who would do the demonstrating and commit the rioting, looting, and lawlessness. So in 1909, Schiff, the Lehmans, and other conspirators, organized and set up the "National Association for the Advancement of the Coloured People" known as the "NAACP." The presidents, directors, and legal councils of the NAACP were always "white men Jews" appointed by Schiff and this is the case to this very day."Then in 1913, the Schiff group organized the "Anti-defamation League of the Bnai Brith" commonly known as the "ADL" to serve as the gestapo and hatchet-man outfit for the entire great conspiracy. Today the sinister "ADL" maintains over 2,000 agencies in all parts of our country and they advise and completely control every action of the "NAACP" or of the "Urban League" of all the other so-called Negro civil-rights organizations throughout the nation including such leaders as Martin Luther King, Stockely Carmichael, Barnard Rustin, and others of the ilk. In addition, the "ADL" acquired absolute control of the advertising-budgets of many department-stores, hotel-chains, and TV and Radio industrialist sponsors, also advertising-agencies in order to control practically all the mass-communications media and force every loyal newspaper to slant and falsify the news and to further incite, and, at the same time create sympathy for, the lawlessness and violence of the Negro mobs. Here is documentary proof of the beginning of their deliberate plot to foment the Negroes into all their lawlessness."Around 1910, one Israel Zangwill wrote a play entitled "The Melting-Pot." It was sheer propaganda to incite the Negroes and Jews because the play purportedly visualized how the American people were discriminating against, and persecuting Jews and Negroes. At that time nobody seemed to realize that it was a propaganda play. It was that cleverly-written. The propaganda was well wrapped-up in the truly great entertainment in the play and it was a big Broadway Hit. "Now in those years, the legendary Diamond Jim Brady used to throw a banquet at the famous Delmonico Restaurant in New York after the opening-performance of a popular play. He threw such a party for the cast of "The Melting-Pot," its author, producer, and chosen Broadway-celebrities. By then Id already made a personal mark on the Broadway Theater and was invited to that party. There I met George Bernard Shaw and a Jewish writer named Israel Cohen. Zangwill, Shaw, and Cohen were the ones who created the Fabian Society in England and had worked closely with a Frankfurt Jew named Mordicai who had changed his name to Karl Marx, but remember, at that time both Marxism and Communism were just emerging and nobody paid much attention to either and nobody suspected the propaganda in the writings of those three really brilliant writers."At that banquet, Israel Cohen told me that he was then engaged in writing a book which was to be a follow-up on Zangwills "The Melting-Pot." The title of his book was to be "A Racial-Program for the 20th Century." At that time I was completely absorbed by my work as a playwright, and significant as that title was, its real-objective never dawned on me nor was I interested in reading the book. But it suddenly hit me with the force of a hydrogen-bomb when I received a newspaper-clipping of an item published by the Washington D.C. Evening Star in May 1957. That item was a verbatim reprint of the following excerpt in Israel Cohens book "A Racial-Program for the 20th Century" and it read as I quote:
"We must realize that our partys most powerful weapon is racial-tension. By propounding into the consciousness of the dark races, that for centuries they have been oppressed by the whites, we can move them to the program of the communist party. In America, we will aim for subtle victory. While inflaming the Negro minority against the whites, we will instill in the whites a guilt-complex for their exploitation of the Negroes. We will aid the Negroes to rise to prominence in every walk of life, in the professions, and in the world of sports and entertainment. With this prestige, the Negro will be able to intermarry with the whites and begin a process which will deliver America to our cause." Record of June 7, 1957, by Representative Thomas G. Abernethy.
"We must realize that our partys most powerful weapon is racial-tension. By propounding into the consciousness of the dark races, that for centuries they have been oppressed by the whites, we can move them to the program of the communist party. In America, we will aim for subtle victory. While inflaming the Negro minority against the whites, we will instill in the whites a guilt-complex for their exploitation of the Negroes. We will aid the Negroes to rise to prominence in every walk of life, in the professions, and in the world of sports and entertainment. With this prestige, the Negro will be able to intermarry with the whites and begin a process which will deliver America to our cause."
Record of June 7, 1957, by Representative Thomas G. Abernethy.
"Thus the authenticity of that passage in Cohens book was fully established. But the one question that remained in my mind was whether it represented the official policy or plot of the Communist Party or just a personal expression of Cohen himself. Hence I sought more proof and I found it in an official pamphlet published in 1935 by the New York Communist Partys official Workers Library Publishers. That pamphlet was entitled: "The Negroes in a Soviet America." It urged the Negroes to rise-up, form a soviet-state in the south, and apply for admission to the Soviet Union. It contained a firm pledge that the revolt would be supported by all American "reds" and all so-called "liberals". On page 38, it promised that a Soviet government would confer greater benefits to Negroes than to whites and again this official communist pamphlet pledged that, I quote: "any act of discrimination or prejudice against a Negro will become a crime under the revolutionary law." That statement proved that the excerpt in Israel Cohens book published in 1913 was an official-edict of the Communist Party and directly in line with the Illuminati-blueprint for world-revolution issued by Weishaupt and later by Albert Pike."Now theres only one question and that is to prove that the communist regime is directly controlled by the American Jacob Schiff and London Rothschild masterminds of the great conspiracy. A little later I will provide that proof that will remove even a remote doubt that the Communist Party, as we know it, was created by those masterminds (capitalists if you will note), Schiff, the Warburgs, and the Rothschilds that planned and financed the entire Russian Revolution, the murder of the Czar and his family, and that Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin took their orders directly from Schiff and the other capitalists whom they supposedly are fighting."Now can you see why the vile Earl Warren and his equally vile co-Supreme Court justices issued that infamous and treasonous desegregation-decision in 1954? It was to aid and abet the plot of the Illuminati conspirators to create tension and strife between the Negroes and Whites. Can you see why the same Earl Warren issued his decision prohibiting Christian-prayers and Christmas-carols in our schools? Why Kennedy did likewise? And can you see why Johnson and 66 Senators, despite the protests of 90% of the American people, voted for the "Consular Treaty" which opens our entire country to Russian spies and saboteurs? All those 66 Senators are 20th century Benedict Arnolds."It is up to you and you, all of the American people, to force Congress, our elected servants, to haul in those American traitors for impeachments and that when proven guilty, they all be given the punishment prescribed for traitors who aid and abet our enemies. And that includes the enforcing of rigid investigations by Congress of the "CFR" and all their fronts, such as the "ADL," the "NAACP," "SNIC," and such Illuminati tools as Martin Luther King*. Such investigations will completely unmask all the leaders in Washington, D.C. and the Illuminati and all their affiliations and affiliates as traitors carrying-out the Illuminati plot. It will completely unmask the United Nations as the intended crux of the entire plot and force Congress to take the U.S. out of the U.N. and hurl the U.N. out of the U.S.. In fact, it will destroy the U.N. and the entire plot.
"Before I close this phase, I wish to reiterate and stress one vital point which I urge you to never forget if you wish to save our country for your children and their children. Here is the point. Every unconstitutional and unlawful act committed by Woodrow Wilson, by Franklin Roosevelt, by Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy and that are now being committed by Johnson (and today, George Bush and Bill Clinton) is exactly in line with the Illuminati conspirators centuries-old plot outlined by Weishaupt and Albert Pike. Every vicious decision issued by the traitorous Earl Warren and his equally-traitorous Supreme Court justices was directly in line with what the Illuminati-blueprint required. That all the treason committed by our State Department under Rusk and earlier by John Foster Dulles, and Marshall, also all the treason committed by McNamara and his predecessors is directly in line with that same Illuminati-blueprint for the takeover of the world. Also the amazing treason by various members of our Congress, especially by the 66 Senators who signed for the Consular Treaty, has been committed on orders from the Illuminati."Now I will go back to Jacob Schiffs entrapment of our money-system and the treasonous actions that followed. It will also reveal the Schiff-Rothschild control of not only Karl Marx, but of Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, who created the revolution in Russia and set up the Communist Party."It was in 1908 that Schiff decided that the time had come for his seizure of our money-system. His chief lieutenants in that seizure were Colonel Edward Mandell House whose entire career was that of chief executive and courier for Schiff as I shall show and Bernard Berouk and Herbert Lehman. In the Fall (Autumn) of that year, they assembled in secret conclave at the Jeckle Island Hunt Club, owned by J.P. Morgan at Jeckle Island, Georgia. Among those present were J.P. Morgan, John B. Rockefeller, Colonel House, Senator Nelson Aldrich, Schiff, Stillman and Vandlelip of the New York National City Bank, W. and J. Seligman, Eugene Myer, Bernard Berouk, Herbert Lehman, Paul Warburg, in short, all of the international bankers in America. All of them members of the hierarchy of the Illuminatis great conspiracy."A week later they emerged with what they called the Federal Reserve System. Senator Aldrich was the stooge who was to railroad it through Congress, but they held that railroading in abeyance for one chief reason, they would first have to plant their man and obedient stooge in the White House to sign the Federal Reserve Act into law. They knew that even if the Senate would pass that act unanimously, the then newly elected President Taft would promptly veto it. So they waited."In 1912, their man, Woodrow Wilson, was elected to the presidency. Immediately after Wilson was inaugurated, Senator Aldrich railroaded the Federal Reserve Act through both houses of Congress and Wilson promptly signed it and the Federal Reserve Act became law. That heinous act of treason was committed on December 23, 1913, two days before Christmas when all the members of Congress, except for several carefully picked Representatives and three equally carefully picked Senators, were away from Washington. How heinous treasonous was that act? Ill tell you. Our founding-fathers knew full-well the power of money. They knew that whoever had that power held the destiny of our nation in his hands. Therefore, they carefully guarded this power when they set forth in the Constitution, that Congress, the elected representatives of the people, alone would have the power. The Constitutional-language on this point is brief, concise, and specific, stated in Article I, Section 8, Paragraph 5, defining the duties and powers of Congress, and I quote:
"to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and the standard of weights and measures."
But on that tragic, unforgettable day of infamy, December 23, 1913, the men we sent to Washington to safeguard our interests, the Representatives, Senators, and Woodrow Wilson, delivered the destiny of our nation into the hands of two aliens from Eastern Europe, Jacob Schiff and Paul Warburg. Warburg was a very recent immigrant who came here on orders from Rothschild for the express purpose of blueprinting that foul Federal Reserve Act."Now the vast majority of the American people think that the Federal Reserve System is an United States Government owned agency. That is positively false. All of the stock of the federal reserve banks is owned by the member banks and the heads of the member banks are all members of the hierarchy of the great Illuminati conspiracy known today as the "CFR." "The details of that act of treason, in which many traitorous so-called Americans participated, are far too long for this reporting, but all those details are available in a book entitled, "The Federal Reserve Conspiracy," written by Eustace Mullins. In that book, Mullins tells the entire horrifying story and backs it up with unquestionable documentations. Aside from it being a truly fascinating and shocking story of that great betrayal, every American should read it as a matter of vital intelligence for the time when the whole American people will finally come awake and smash the entire conspiracy and with Gods help, that awakening will surely come."Now if you think that those aliens and their by accident-of-birth American co-conspirators would be content with just the control of our money-system, you are in for another very sad shock. The Federal Reserve System gave the conspirators complete control of our money-system, but it in no way touched the earnings of the people because the Constitution positively forbids what is now known as the 20%+ withholding tax. But the Illuminati-blueprint for one-world-enslavement called for the confiscation of all private property and control of individual earning-powers. This, and Karl Marx stressed that feature in his blueprint, had to be accomplished by a progressive graduated income-tax. As I have stated, such a tax could not lawfully be imposed upon the American people. It is succinctly and expressly forbidden by our Constitution. Thus, only an Amendment to the Constitution could give the federal government such confiscatory-powers."Well, that too was not an insurmountable problem for our Machiavellian plotters. The same elected leaders in both houses of Congress and the same Mr. Woodrow Wilson, who signed the infamous Federal Reserve Act into law, amended the Constitution to make the federal income-tax, known as the 16th Amendment, a law of the land. Both are illegal under our Constitution. In short, the same traitors signed both betrayals, the Federal Reserve Act and the 16th Amendment, into law. However, it seems that nobody ever realized that the 16th amendment was set up to rob, and I do mean rob, the people of their earnings via the income-tax provision."The plotters didnt fully use the provision until World War II when that great humanitarian, Franklin Roosevelt, applied a 20% withholding-tax on all small wage-earners and up to 90% on higher incomes. Oh, of course, he faithfully promised that it would be only for the duration of the war, but what was a promise to such a charlatan who in 1940, when he was running for his third term, kept proclaiming:
"I say again and again and again that I will never send American boys to fight on foreign soil."
Remember, he was proclaiming that statement even as he was already preparing to plunge us into World War II by enticing the Japanese into that sneak-attack on Pearl Harbor to furnish him with his excuse."And before I forget, let me remind you that another charlatan named Woodrow Wilson used exactly that same campaign-slogan in 1916. His slogan was: "Re-elect the man who will keep your sons out of the war," exactly the same formula, exactly the same promises. But wait, as Al Jolson used to say: "you aint heard nothin yet." That 16th Amendment income-tax trap was intended to confiscate and rob the earnings of the common herd, you and me. It was not intended to even touch the huge incomes of the Illuminati gang, the Rockefellers, the Carnegies, the Lehmans, and all the other conspirators. "So together, with that 16th Amendment, they created what they called the "tax-free foundations" that would enable the conspirators to transform their huge wealth into such so-called "foundations" and avoid payment of virtually all income-taxes. The excuse for it was that the earnings of those "tax-free foundations" would be devoted to humanitarian-philanthropy. So we now have the several Rockefeller Foundations, the Carnegie and Dowman Fund, the Ford Foundation, the Mellon Foundation, and hundreds of similar "tax-free foundations." "And what kind of philanthropy do these foundations support? Well, they finance all the civil-rights groups (and conservation-movements) that are creating all the chaos and rioting all over the country. They finance the Martin Luther Kings. The Ford Foundation finances the "Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions" in Santa Barbara, commonly referred to as Moscow West, and which is headed by Wonder Boy Hutchens, Walter Ruther, Erwin Cahnam and others of that ilk. "In short, the "tax-free foundations" financed those who are doing the job for the Illuminatis great conspiracy. And what are the hundreds of billions of dollars they confiscate every year from the earnings of the common herd, you and me, used for? Well, for one thing, there is the "foreign aid" gimmick which gave billions to communist Tito plus gifts of hundreds of jet-planes, many of which were turned over to Castro, plus the costs of training communist pilots so that they can better shoot down our planes. Billions to red Poland. Billions to India. Billions to Sucarno. Billions to other enemies of the United States. Thats what that treasonous railroaded 16th Amendment has done to our nation and to the American people, to you and to me, to your children and their children. "Our CFR Illuminati-controlled federal government can grant "tax-free status" to all foundations and pro-red one-world outfits, such as the "Fund for the Republic." But if you or a patriotic pro-organization is too outspokenly pro-American, they can terrify and intimidate you by finding a misplaced comma in your income-tax-report and by threatening you with penalties, fines, and even prison. Future historians will wonder how the American people could have been so naive and stupid as to have permitted such audacious brazen acts of treason as the "Federal Reserve Act" and the "16th Amendment." Well, they were not naive and they were not stupid. The answer is: they trusted the men they elected to safeguard our country and our people, and they just didnt have even an inkling about either betrayal, until after each one had been accomplished."It was the Illuminati-controlled mass-communications media that has kept and is keeping our people naive and stupid and unaware of the treason being committed. Now the great question is: "when will the people wake up and do to our traitors of today what George Washington and our founding-fathers would have done to Benedict Arnold?" Actually, Benedict Arnold was a petty-traitor compared to our present traitors in Washington D.C.. Now lets go back to the events that followed the rape of our Constitution by the passage of the Federal Reserve Act and the 16th Amendment. Was Wilson completely under their control?"The masterminds of the great conspiracy put in motion their next and what they hoped would be their final steps to achieve their one-world government. The first of those steps was to be World War I. Why War? Simple, the only excuse for a one-world government was that it will supposedly ensure peace. The only thing that can make people cry for peace is war. War brings chaos, destruction, exhaustion, to the winner as well as to the loser. It brings economic-ruin to both. Most important, it destroys the flower of the young manhood of both. To the saddened and heartbroken oldsters (the mothers and fathers) who are left with nothing but memories of their beloved sons, peace becomes worth any price and that is the emotion upon which the conspirators depend for the success of their satanic plot."Throughout the 19th century, from 1814 to 1914, the world, as a whole, was at peace. Such wars as the "Franco-Prussian," our own "Civil War", the "Russo-Japanese War," were what might be termed "local-disturbances" that did not affect the rest of the world. All the great nations were prosperous and the people were staunchly nationalistic and fiercely-proud of their sovereignties. It was utterly-unthinkable that the French and the German peoples would be willing to live under a "one-world government", or the "Toks" and the "Russians," the "Chinese," or the "Japanese." Even more unthinkable is that a Kaiser Wilhelm or a Franz Joseph or a Czar Nicholas or any Monarch would willingly and meekly surrender his throne to a one-world government. But bear in mind that the peoples in all nations are the real power and "war" the only thing that could make the peoples yearn and clamor for "peace", ensuring a one-world government. But it would have to be a frightful and horribly devastating war. It could not be just a local-disturbing war between just two nations, it would have to be a "world war." No major nation must be left untouched by the horrors and devastation of such a war. The cry for "peace" must be made universal.
Back to Contents
