# The Future

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/crystal_tablet/tsrl21.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 21
The Future
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c) Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version
by TS permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
An effective magician must be able to move within and influence the fourth dimension as well as the first three. Such skill involves understanding and applying the principles which define and govern past periods of focus within the time-continuum, together with both passive analysis and active manipulation of the future. Time-Magic as employed by the Temple of Set may involve either Greater Black Magic techniques [referred to as Erotic Crystallization Inertia (ECI) techniques by Anton LaVey; see "Runes" #II-6] or Lesser Black Magic technology.
The following selections include some of the more sophisticated futurological thinking in conventional society - as well as a few experiments-gone-wrong from "The Outer Limits" ["There is nothing wrong with your television set ..."] 21A. "The Future" by Gerald Leinwand (Ed.). NY: Pocket Books #671-80316-6- 195, 1976. (TS-2)
MA: "An anthology of selected readings concerning the future, selected by the Dean of the School of Education, City University of New York. Included are articles and extracts by such futurologists as Asimov, Orwell, Huxley, Clarke, Kahn, Reischauer, Toffler, and Skinner. Most of the contributions discuss developments of the near future which can be interpolated more or less reliably, but there are some long-range speculative essays as well. A good introductory work." 21B. "The Last Days" by Anthony Hunter. London: Anthony Blond Ltd, 1958. (CS-3) AL: "A fairly scarce work from England which explains the workings of the prophets of doom who prey upon their followers' fears that the world will end, tidal waves, earthquakes, etc." 21C. "Mankind at the Turning-Point" by Mihajlo Mesarovic and Eduard Pestel. NY: E.P. Dutton & Co., 1974. (TS-3)
MA: "This is the second major book sponsored by the Club of Rome [the first being Meadows' "The Limits to Growth"]. It expands upon and updates the data in Limits and responds to critics. Far more sophisticated than the sensationalist 'doomsday' books that sprang up following the appearance of Limits (which Raghavan Iyer, author of #16F and a member of the Club of Rome himself, told me was deliberately sensationalized in order to 'shock' the public - which of course it did)." 21D. "War in 2080: The Future of Military Technology" by David Langford. NY: William Morrow & Co., 1974. (TS-3)
MA: "Langford is a physicist and science- fiction devotee [#7D], and he applies his skills in both areas in this excellent work. Topics treated include fission & fusion bombs, concepts of nuclear warfare, death rays (lasers, grasers [gamma-ray lasers], antimatter projectors, particle beams), orbital battlegrounds, geological warfare, ecological warfare, and human & non-human warfare in space. A good theoretical background study for #22N. For a specialized discussion of space warfare probabilities and possibilities, see also "Space Weapons/Space War" by John W. Macvey (NY: Stein & Day, 1979." 21E. "The Next Ten Thousand Years" by Adrian Berry. NY: Mentor Books, 1974. (TS-3)
MA: "This is definitely long-range! An optimistic challenge to the 'doomsday' books that followed "Limits to Growth", and a scientific scenario for survival within the Solar System with technological aid. Well-argued, with consideration given to the many influential factors. Nevertheless Berry seems excessively confident in the ability of the masses of humanity to cooperate in egalitarian 'master plans'." 21F. "Foundation/Foundation and Empire/Second Foundation" by Isaac Asimov. NY: Avon Books, 1951. (TS-4)
MA: "Brilliant trilogy of the future, based upon Asimov's concept of 'psychohistory'. This concept and others introduced in the text inspired certain aspects in the original design of the Temple of Set. In late XVII Asimov published a sequel to the original trilogy - "Foundation's Edge" - which I reviewed in "Scroll of Set" #IX-3, which in turn was commented upon by Asimov. The series was merged with Asimov's robot series [cf. #15D] in "Foundation and Earth" (NY: Doubleday, 1986), in which the ultimate justification for mankind's galactic unification is considered to be the eventual invasion of the Milky Way Galaxy by denizens from other galaxies. [Too late, Isaac - see #22N.]" 21G. "Metropolis" by Thea von Harbou. NY: Ace Books #441-52831-125, 1927. (TS-5)
MA: "An Expressionistic portrait of a negative utopia in which humans are controlled by machines - save for one Black Magician (Rotwang). The novel from which Fritz Lang's classic UFA film was made, and the basis for many electronic/audio-visual ritual techniques employed by the Church of Satan and further developed by the Temple of Set. A "King in Yellow" of science-fiction, preserved today through the personal efforts of Forrest J Ackerman. To understand Metropolis in the context of German Expressionist cinema, see "The Haunted Screen" by Lotte E. Eisner (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973)." 21H. "Political Science and the Study of the Future" by Albert Somit. Hinsdale, Illinois: Dryden Press, 1974. (TS-3)
MA: "This is a theoretical text with accompanying case studies, and it is primarily valuable for its explanation and illustration of various social forecasting techniques, including: social physics (ideological theories, logistics curves, Kondratieff cycles), economic forecasting, demographic extrapolation, technological change, structural certainties, operational codes, operational systems, structural requisites, overriding problems, prime movers, sequential development, accounting schemes, scenarios, and decision theory. Another good introductory work without social science emphasis is Edward Cornish's "The Study of the Future" (Washington, D.C.: World Future Society, 1977)." 21I. "Your Next Fifty Years" by Robert W. Prehoda. NY: Ace Books, 1980. (TS- 2)
MA: "Prehoda is playing his cards a bit closer to his chest than the author of #21E. This book now has fewer than 50 years to go, which ought to count for a discount on the price if you find it, but probably won't. It is a 'projected history' book oriented towards individual perspective, i.e. what you as an individual are likely to see and/or experience in the midst of society. A highly optimistic, highly readable, non-technical work. Reassuring - perhaps too much so - after reading #14E." 21J. "A Quick & Dirty Guide to War" by James F. Dunnigan & Austin Bay. NY: William Morrow, 1985. (TS-3)
MA: "This heavy-duty paperback is subtitled 'Briefings on Present and Potential Wars', and that pretty well sums it up. As depressing as it is to admit, the world continues to move away from international peace and cooperation and closer to a kind of 'tolerable/ continuous state of war', and - by geographic area - this book provides 'intelligence briefings' to tell you what is most likely to hit the fan where [if it isn't already doing so]. Regularly updated, so look for the latest edition. This project is an attempt by the authors to overcome the short-sightedness of most press coverage, and to tell you about things before they happen. Jammed with facts and data: political forecasting of the most substantive kind."
