# The Police State Road Map - 13

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/policestate_roadmap/policestate_roadmap13.htm

Chapter 13 THE FAMILY AND RELIGION
13.1 Elitism and the New Age Religion 13.2 Caught in the Act at Bohemian Grove 13.3 Targeting the Young 13.4 Banning Monotheism 13.5 Enforcing Love of Big Brother 13.6 Sexual Abuse
Like the communists, the Western elite are attacking traditional social institutions which challenge the moral authority of the state. They are promoting New Age religion because it is more suited to their political agendas.
13.1 ELITISM AND THE NEW AGE RELIGION New Age religion proposes the ascendancy of a ruling elite un-restrained by the moral strictures of ancient religious texts. Whereas monotheistic religions propose a deity who is apart from the world and judges man for his actions, New Age pantheism proposes that God is the collective whole of every entity in the world organized into a spiritual hierarchy. Evolution and reincarnation underpin a spiritual hierarchy headed by the Masters of Wisdom who can communicate telepathically with their followers.
The Masters will bring humanity into the Age of Aquarius or The New World Order using their higher wisdom. These ideas stem from the Theosophical movement founded by a Russian woman called Helena Blavatsky born in 1831. The Nazis took Theosophy seriously and Hitler based his genocidal theories of master race, or supermen ("Ubermenschen") on it.(1) Theosophy has been promoted at the U.N. by The Lucis Trust which enjoys consultative status with its Economic and Social Council.(2) The U.N. is regarded by New Agers as the supreme political instrument of the Hierarchy, which is appropriate given that the U.N. has always been controlled by the elite.(3) Not only is pantheism used to justify the dictatorship of a ruling elite, it also tied into agendas such as eugenics / bioethics, population control, and radical environmentalism. Pantheistic Earth worship is promoted at the highest level of the environmental movement. As an atheistic parallel of the ten commandments, the U.N. Earth Charter, a 16 point plan for humanity written by Stephen Rockefeller and Mikhail Gorbachev, has been placed in a 500 pound chest called The Ark of Hope. On page 60 of her book, Manual of the Co-Creators for the Quantam Leap, New Ager Barbara Marx Hubbard states that the spiritual elite will have to kill off one half of the population in order to evolve humanity to the next level:
'We are in charge of God's selection process for Planet Earth. He selects, we destroy. We are the riders of the pale horse, Death'.
Hubbard was a former member of the Presidential Committee on National Curriculum and Democratic Party nominee for Vice-President in 1984.(5) (6)
13.2 CAUGHT IN THE ACT AT BOHEMIAN GROVE On 2nd August 1982 Newsweek magazine reported:
... the world's most prestigious summer camp -the Bohemian Grove - is now in session 75 miles north of San Francisco. The fiercely guarded, 2,700 acre retreat is the country extension of San Francisco's all-male ultra-exclusive Bohemian Club to which every Republican President since Herbert Hoover has belonged. With its high-powered clientele, coveted privacy and cabalistic rituals, the Bohemian Grove has prompted considerable suspicion... The most important events, however are the "lakeside talks" (past orators: Alexander Hague and Casper Weinberger). This year's speaker was Henry Kissinger on The Challenge of the '80s.(7)
In July 2001, documentary film-maker Alex Jones infiltrated Bohemian Grove, becoming the first person to capture the bizarre occult activities of the Bohemian Club's world leaders on videotape.(8) The centre-piece of the festivities is The Cremation of Care, literally the torching of human compassion. This involves a mock human sacrifice to the sun god Moloch, performed in front of a forty-foot tall stone owl.
Alex Jones commentates:
We were all focused at what was going on across the pond. Suddenly the owl was lit up by some flood lights and out ran a hundred priests or so in black, red and green robes. Most of them were in black, some in red and a couple in silver or green robes. Then, out came the high priest, who went through all his incantations about the dead (who is dead at the Grove in the past, may their spirits be conjured and brought back there by the "great owl"). He praised the owl for about twenty minutes and he talked about "goodly Tyre and Babylon". The priests went on to burn alive a human effigy whose cries for mercy were broadcast through a public address system. Pyrotechnics caused metal crucifixes around the pond to burst into flames. Religious infanticide was widespread among the ancient peoples of the Eastern Mediterranean region, but the cult of Moloch is the most documented. Baal Moloch (or Molekh) 'The Bull of the Sun' was the sun god of the Phoenicians (called Canaanites in the Bible). He was conceived in the form of a calf or an ox, or depicted as a man with the head of a bull. In many instances the bodies of children were burnt as sacrifices, performed to renew the strength of the sun fire.(9)
Canaan is an ancient term for the country roughly corresponding to what was later historically known as Palestine or The Holy Land, and in modern political terms, Israel and the Occupied Territories. The Canaanites were the Semitic inhabitants of Canaan before the Israelites arrived and it seems that the Israelites followed the Canaanite practice of sacrificing children to Molech. The ritual is described in The Old Testament 'to pass through the fire' and is strongly condemned.(10)
Tyre was an major commercial city in the Phoenician empire and many of its kings were named Baal after the sun god. (11)
13.3 TARGETING THE YOUNG New Age religion and witchcraft have become very popular amongst today's youth because they offer magical power, personal liberation, and an anything goes culture. This is exactly the kind of moral vacuum the elite need to exert control over the population. According to Reuters, 19 June 2003:
Paganism and the ancient art of witchcraft are on the rise in Britain, experts said on Thursday as the summer's most celebrated Pagan festival approached. Television, the Internet, environmentalism and even feminism have all played a role in the resurgence, they say. Soaring Pagan numbers have churches worrying and calling for stricter controls on cult TV programs and films that celebrate sorcery like "Harry Potter," "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Sabrina the Teenage Witch... "Anything that makes teenage girls feel powerful is bound to go down well," joked OBOD's McCabe. Kevin Carlyon, High Priest of British White Witches said "Harry Potter" in recent years had continued the trend, helping create what he called "the fastest growing belief system in the world." (12)
Sponsored by ExxonMobil, 'Harry Potter Day' 2001, saw American children attending public libraries for potion class.(13)
Here is a sample of Harry Potter 's occult powers:
Harry longed to bite the man... but he must master the impulse. He had more important work to do. But the man was stirring... Harry saw his vibrant, blurred outline towering above him, saw a wand withdrawn from a belt... He had no choice... He reared high from the floor and struck once, twice, three times, plunging his fangs deeply into the man's flesh, feeling his ribs splinter beneath his jaws, feeling the warm gush of blood... The man was yelling in pain... then he fell silent... He slumped backward against the wall... Blood was splattering onto the floor... His forehead hurt terribly. (14)
K B Toys now make occultic barbie dolls called Secret Spells Christie and Secret Spells Kayla.(15) One company, Mezco Toyz, has invented the Living Dead Doll, a creation straight from a horror movie. The gruesome ten-inch dolls, with devil-red eyes and blood pouring from their mouths, come in their own coffins, along with a death certificate.
The characters include Sybill, who is strapped in a straitjacket with a collar and chain, and Inferno, who has auburn hair, fiery eyes and bat-like wings.(16)
13.4 BANNING MONOTHEISM Meanwhile, the E.U. is attacking religions using human rights laws, just as they are being used to attack national sovereignty. In December 2003, a law was implemented in the U.K. based on a European Union Directive which bans discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of religion, belief, or sexual orientation. Thousands of religious schools, charities and organizations could face legal action if they refuse to employ atheists or homosexuals, or sack staff who become Satanists under proposed Government regulations.(17) President Bush signed America up to UNESCO on 1st October 2003 after a nineteen year absence. UNESCO'S Manifesto 2000 for a culture of peace and non-violence includes the aim to, 'Defend freedom of expression and cultural diversity, giving preference always to dialogue and listening without engaging in fanaticism, defamation and the rejection of others.'(18) Christianity, Judaism and Islam and most other religions emphatically "reject others" and can be extremely defamatory. Under this rule, monotheistic religions would be muzzled. UNESCO is equally contemptuous of the family. A 10-part series for teachers, published in 1949 under the title Toward World Understanding, reads like The Communist Manifesto:
'Government schools must stamp out love of country and the family must be viewed as the enemy'.(19)
The U.K. Serious Organized Crime and Police Bill introduced in November 2004, creates a new crime of incitement to religious hatred. This will have the effect of stopping religious groups from criticizing each other, and therefore expressing their core belief that theirs is the only true religion. It also sets a very dangerous precedent that the state can censor criticism of a set of beliefs.
What happens when the state declares that euthanasia or another belief of some 'bioethics committee' falls within this protection?
13.5 ENFORCING LOVE OF BIG BROTHER
We have cut the links between child and parent, and between man and man, and between man and woman. No one dares trust a wife or a child or a friend any longer. But in the future there will be no wives and no friends. Children will be taken from their mothers at birth, as one takes eggs from a hen. The sex instinct will be eradicated. Procreation will be an annual formality like the renewal of a ration card. We shall abolish the orgasm. Our neurologists are at work upon it now. There will be no loyalty, except loyalty towards the Party. There will be no love, except the love of Big Brother. -George Orwell, 1984
We have cut the links between child and parent, and between man and man, and between man and woman. No one dares trust a wife or a child or a friend any longer. But in the future there will be no wives and no friends. Children will be taken from their mothers at birth, as one takes eggs from a hen. The sex instinct will be eradicated. Procreation will be an annual formality like the renewal of a ration card. We shall abolish the orgasm. Our neurologists are at work upon it now. There will be no loyalty, except loyalty towards the Party. There will be no love, except the love of Big Brother.
-George Orwell,
1984
Chapter 12 described the U.K. Children Bill, 2004, which sets up a database to monitor personal, health and educational information for all children and their families.(20) Currently, under The 1996 Education Act parents can be fined £2500 or sentenced to three months in prison if their child regularly truants from school.
In October 2003 the Government proposed introducing £25- £100 fines for each unauthorized absence from class.(21)
13.6 SEXUAL ABUSE On top of all the tyrannical social political agendas, the elite are backing an equally disturbing agenda of sexual abuse. The Daily Telegraph reported on 23rd October 2003:
The European Union's elite are determined to destroy Europe's Christian heritage, Italy's reform minister, Umberto Bossi said yesterday. He described the elite as 'filthy pigs' who wanted to 'make pedophilia as easy as possible'.(22)
Many major pedophile rings have been uncovered which involved members of the ruling class. In June 2003, scandal rocked the Portuguese establishment when it emerged that senior figures were in a pedophile ring at a state run boys orphanage. Among them were Paulo Pedroso, an MP and number two in the opposition Socialist Party; Carlos Cruz, one of Portugal's most popular television journalists; and Jorge Ritto, retired ambassador to UNESCO.
The arrest of Pedroso was the first of a politician during the investigation. It followed the testimony of two 14-year-old boys who identified the 38-year-old divorcée from photographs and claimed that they were taken to a country home in Elvas, near the Spanish border, on several occasions during 1999 and 2000 while Pedroso was still a Minister.(23) French police investigating the disappearance of 115 young women in the Toulouse area between 1986 and 1997 discovered that serial killer Patrice Alègre, a policeman's son, organized the city's prostitution business, providing under-age girls for sadomasochistic orgies with Magistrates, politicians, policemen, journalists and businessmen at Toulouse's Palais de Justice and a chateau owned by Toulouse council.(24) In January 2003, child porn allegations caused Tony Blair to issue a D-Notice to gag the press from revealing the names of known pedophiles within the British Government. The Sunday Herald has also had it confirmed by a senior source in British intelligence that at least one high-profile former Labour Cabinet minister is among Operation Ore suspects, an operation by Scotland Yard's Pedophile Unit into child porn downloaded from the internet.
The Sunday Herald has been given the politician's name but, for legal reasons, cannot identify the person. There are still unconfirmed rumors that another senior Labour politician is among the suspects. The intelligence officer said that a 'rolling' Cabinet committee had been set up to work out how to deal with the potentially ruinous fall-out for both Tony Blair and the Government if arrests occur.(25) The Independent reported on 12th June 2002:
When police in the tiny republic of Montenegro swooped on a suspected pimp accused of running a major sex trafficking operation, they ran into an embarrassing problem. The man they were about to put behind bars was none other than the country's deputy state prosecutor... Montenegro has been shaken hard by the burgeoning scandal, which allegedly involved leading members of the judiciary, police and political officials. Zoran Piperovic, the republic's deputy prosecutor, was arrested this week, and six other officials have been detained. They are accused of forcing women, mostly from Moldavia, Ukraine and Romania, into prostitution... It is an open secret in the Balkans that people-trafficking rings run through Montenegro to Bosnia and Kosovo, with profits from the dirty trade reaching millions of Euros. The sex-slave routes lead to Italy and Britain, where at least 1,400 women, mainly from eastern Europe, are tricked into prostitution each year. The trade is highly lucrative for the men who "own" them; in London, women can bring in about £100,000 a year for their pimps.(26)
When police in the tiny republic of Montenegro swooped on a suspected pimp accused of running a major sex trafficking operation, they ran into an embarrassing problem. The man they were about to put behind bars was none other than the country's deputy state prosecutor... Montenegro has been shaken hard by the burgeoning scandal, which allegedly involved leading members of the judiciary, police and political officials. Zoran Piperovic, the republic's deputy prosecutor, was arrested this week, and six other officials have been detained.
They are accused of forcing women, mostly from Moldavia, Ukraine and Romania, into prostitution... It is an open secret in the Balkans that people-trafficking rings run through Montenegro to Bosnia and Kosovo, with profits from the dirty trade reaching millions of Euros. The sex-slave routes lead to Italy and Britain, where at least 1,400 women, mainly from eastern Europe, are tricked into prostitution each year. The trade is highly lucrative for the men who "own" them; in London, women can bring in about £100,000 a year for their pimps.(26)
Madeleine Rees, the head of the U.N. Human Rights Commission office in Sarajevo, stated that trafficking in women through Bosnia started with the arrival of the international peace keepers in 1992. As well as 21,000 NATO peace keepers and aid workers, there were police from 40 countries trying to keep Bosnia's warring factions apart. Extra-curricular activities involved running pedophile and prostitution rings with the local criminals.(27)
The core of the U.N. international police force in Bosnia were employees of Dyncorp, a US based military contractor. Insight on the News magazine reports that none of the girls were from Bosnia but were kidnapped in Russia, Romania and other places, and transported by DynCorp /U.N. employees and the Serbian mafia.(28) More than 6000 girls aged between 12 and 16 are smuggled to Western Europe each year. Researchers have identified north-eastern Italy as a key sorting centre for girls from Eastern Europe, again underlining the importance of the U.N.'s activities in Bosnia. (29) A copy of the joint study sponsored by the U.N. High Commission for Refugees and Save The Children, obtained by United Press International, describes the sexual abuse of children in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea by U.N. and NGO staff. Agency workers from the international and local NGOs as well as U.N. agencies were ranked as among the worst sex exploiters of children, often using the very humanitarian aid and services intended to benefit the refugee population as a tool of exploitation.
The assessment team listed sexual allegations and called for further investigation against workers from 42 agencies. (30)
Chapter 13 End Notes
Jackson Spielvogel and David Redles, Hitler's Racial Ideology: Content and Occult Sources, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Annual 3. See http://motlc.wiesenthal.com/resources/books/annual3/chap09.html List of the non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council as at 31 July 1998, E/1998/INF/6,Distr. GENERAL, U.N. See http://www.un.org/documents/ecosoc/docs/1998/e1998-inf6.htm The Aquarian Age Community website. See http://www.aquaac.org/un/found.html The Ark of Hope website. See http://arkofhope.org/index.php?module=htmlpages&func=display&pid=1 Gary Kah, The Demonic Roots of Globalism, Huntington House Publishers, 1995 p.125 Ibid., p.116 Bohemian Club, Gaylon Ross Sr.. See http://www.4rie.com/rie%207.html Alex Jones, Occult Activities at the Elite Bohemian Grove, in Northern California Exposed!. See http://www.infowars.com/bg_story_template.html Moloch, Encyclopedia Mythica. See http://www.pantheon.org/articles/m/moloch.html 10 Moloch, Catholic Encyclopedia. See http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/10443b.htm NationMaster.com. See http://www.nationmaster.com/encyclopedia/Tyre Pete Harrison, Sabrina, Harry and the Web Help UK Paganism Grow, Reuters, 19 June2003, http://www.propagandamatrix.com/sabrina_harry_and_the_web_help_uk_paganism_grow Caryl Matrisciana, Entertainment at any cost?, WorldNetDaily.com, 9 Nov. 2001. See http://www.biblerevelations.org/harry_potter/any_cost.htm J K Rowling, Harry Potter and The Order of The Phoenix, p.463. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/harry_potter_and_the_order_of_the_phoenix Infowars.com http://infowars.com/print/misc/wicca_barbie.htm Jacqui Goddard, Horror dolls threaten Barbie, The Scotsman, 25 Nov. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/horror_dolls_threaten_barbie Jonathan Petre, Euro rules force Church bodies to employ atheists, The Daily Telegraph, London, 25 Jan. 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/euro_rules_force_church_bodies_to_employ_atheists.htm Manifesto 2000 for a culture of Peace and Non-violence, UNESCO. See http://www3.unesco.org/manifesto2000/ uk/uk_manifeste.htm#respecter Phil Brennan, UNESCO: Strangle This Monster in Its Crib, Newsmax, 18 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/unesco_strangle_this_monster_in_its_crib UK: Children Bill to introduce surveillance of every child and record "concerns" about their parents, Statewatch news, April 2004 £100 instant penalty for truancy, BBC, London, 3 Oct. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/3159532.stm Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, EU elite are filthy pigs, says Bossi, The Daily Telegraph, London, 23 Oct. 2003. See http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=%2Fnews%2F2003%2F10%2F23%2Fwpig23.xml Portugal shamed by child sex, The Sunday Herald, 12 Oct. 2003. See http://www.sundayherald.com/37405 Paul Webster, Toulouse officials ordered murder, says serial killer, The Guardian, London, 3 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/toulouse_officials_ordered_murder_says_serial_killer Neil Mackay, Child porn arrests 'too slow', The Sunday Herald, 19 Jan. 2003. See http://www.sundayherald.com/30813 Vesna Peric Zimonjic, Government officials in sex trafficking ring arrested, The Independent, London, 6 Dec. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/government_officials_in_sex_trafficking_ring_arrested Daniel McGrory, Woman sacked for revealing UN links with sex trade, The Times, London, 7 Aug. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/woman_sacked_for_revealing_un_links_with_sex_trade Kelly Patricia O Meara, DynCorp Disgrace, Insight on the News, 14 Jan. 2002. See http://www.insightmag.com/main.cfm/include/detail/storyid/163052.html Philip Willan, 6,000 children smuggled to the west each year for sex, The Guardian, London, 12 July 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/6000_children_smuggled_to_the_west_each_year_for_sex U.N. Finally Forced to Probe Its Pedophilia Scandal, Newsmax.com, 7 May 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/un_finally_forced_to_probe_its_pedophillia_scandal
Jackson Spielvogel and David Redles, Hitler's Racial Ideology: Content and Occult Sources, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Annual 3. See http://motlc.wiesenthal.com/resources/books/annual3/chap09.html
List of the non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council as at 31 July 1998, E/1998/INF/6,Distr. GENERAL, U.N. See http://www.un.org/documents/ecosoc/docs/1998/e1998-inf6.htm
The Aquarian Age Community website. See http://www.aquaac.org/un/found.html
The Ark of Hope website. See http://arkofhope.org/index.php?module=htmlpages&func=display&pid=1
Gary Kah, The Demonic Roots of Globalism, Huntington House Publishers, 1995 p.125
Ibid., p.116
Bohemian Club, Gaylon Ross Sr.. See http://www.4rie.com/rie%207.html
Alex Jones, Occult Activities at the Elite Bohemian Grove, in Northern California Exposed!. See http://www.infowars.com/bg_story_template.html
Moloch, Encyclopedia Mythica. See http://www.pantheon.org/articles/m/moloch.html
10 Moloch, Catholic Encyclopedia. See http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/10443b.htm
NationMaster.com. See http://www.nationmaster.com/encyclopedia/Tyre
Pete Harrison, Sabrina, Harry and the Web Help UK Paganism Grow, Reuters, 19 June2003, http://www.propagandamatrix.com/sabrina_harry_and_the_web_help_uk_paganism_grow
Caryl Matrisciana, Entertainment at any cost?, WorldNetDaily.com, 9 Nov. 2001. See http://www.biblerevelations.org/harry_potter/any_cost.htm
J K Rowling, Harry Potter and The Order of The Phoenix, p.463. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/harry_potter_and_the_order_of_the_phoenix
Infowars.com http://infowars.com/print/misc/wicca_barbie.htm
Jacqui Goddard, Horror dolls threaten Barbie, The Scotsman, 25 Nov. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/horror_dolls_threaten_barbie
Jonathan Petre, Euro rules force Church bodies to employ atheists, The Daily Telegraph, London, 25 Jan. 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/euro_rules_force_church_bodies_to_employ_atheists.htm
Manifesto 2000 for a culture of Peace and Non-violence, UNESCO. See http://www3.unesco.org/manifesto2000/ uk/uk_manifeste.htm#respecter
Phil Brennan, UNESCO: Strangle This Monster in Its Crib, Newsmax, 18 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/unesco_strangle_this_monster_in_its_crib
UK: Children Bill to introduce surveillance of every child and record "concerns" about their parents, Statewatch news, April 2004
£100 instant penalty for truancy, BBC, London, 3 Oct. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/3159532.stm
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, EU elite are filthy pigs, says Bossi, The Daily Telegraph, London, 23 Oct. 2003. See http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=%2Fnews%2F2003%2F10%2F23%2Fwpig23.xml
Portugal shamed by child sex, The Sunday Herald, 12 Oct. 2003. See http://www.sundayherald.com/37405
Paul Webster, Toulouse officials ordered murder, says serial killer, The Guardian, London, 3 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/toulouse_officials_ordered_murder_says_serial_killer
Neil Mackay, Child porn arrests 'too slow', The Sunday Herald, 19 Jan. 2003. See http://www.sundayherald.com/30813
Vesna Peric Zimonjic, Government officials in sex trafficking ring arrested, The Independent, London, 6 Dec. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/government_officials_in_sex_trafficking_ring_arrested
Daniel McGrory, Woman sacked for revealing UN links with sex trade, The Times, London, 7 Aug. 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/woman_sacked_for_revealing_un_links_with_sex_trade
Kelly Patricia O Meara, DynCorp Disgrace, Insight on the News, 14 Jan. 2002. See http://www.insightmag.com/main.cfm/include/detail/storyid/163052.html
Philip Willan, 6,000 children smuggled to the west each year for sex, The Guardian, London, 12 July 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/6000_children_smuggled_to_the_west_each_year_for_sex
U.N. Finally Forced to Probe Its Pedophilia Scandal, Newsmax.com, 7 May 2002. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/un_finally_forced_to_probe_its_pedophillia_scandal
Back to Contents
Back to Global Religion
