# The Lucis Trust - Satanism and the New World Order

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_lucytrust06.htm

by Scott Thompson Executive Intelligence Review from ExposingSatanism Website
Rev A [1]
A powerful wing of the Anglo-American Establishment is currently under investigation by this news service for its role in promoting the cults of Satanism and Luciferianism, for spawning an entire subculture of drug-induced violence believed to be behind the recent pattern of hideous ritual murders.
As Dianne Core, a leading British expert in the battle against Satanism, put it recently,
"We are in the middle of spiritual warfare, and the Satanic weapons are all pointed at the young."
It is no coincidence, that this wing of the Establishment includes many of the leading advocates of a New Yalta deal with Moscow - top figures of the United Nations bureaucracy, and leading elite families. As we document below, they even look to Mikhail Gorbachov as the premier world cult leader in what they call their "Externalized Hierarchy." In this article, the first of an ongoing series, we present a dossier of some of the principal institutions and individuals behind this evil "New Age" movement. The reader will learn, how behind the oh-so-nice U.N. brochures and talk about "peace," some of the leading figures of this grouping have been exposed as practicing the most obscene homosexual and child pornography rituals imaginable.
Take the notorious case of Canon Edward West, the coordinator of the American association of the Most Venerable Order of St. John. Eyewitness accounts indicate that during the 1980s, he was a frequent participant in obscene sexual rituals at homosexual S&M clubs in Manhattan, including the Mineshaft and the Hellfire Club (named after an 18th-century English secret Satanic society).
Favorite "entertainment" at the Mineshaft included having children urinate on the patrons. In the mid-1980s, the club was shut down, following an investigation by the New York Police Department, which found links to organized crime circles, including those of John Zaccaro, the husband of 1984 Democratic vice presidential nominee Geraldine Ferraro.
The evil friends of Bishop Moore The Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the medieval temple of the Episcopalian Archdiocese of New York, has become the mother institution of the New Age movement in the United States, whose goal is to eclipse the Age of Pisces (Christianity) with an Age of Aquarius (Lucifer).
The presiding bishop of the cathedral, Bishop Paul Moore, whose family is heir to the Nabisco company fortune, has been in the forefront of creating this Satanic "new world order," since at least the late 1950s, when, as a priest in Indianapolis, Indiana, he gave the "People's Temple" cult of Jim Jones its start. Later in 1977, Bishop Moore rocked the Christian world, when he ordained a militant lesbian, Ellen Marie Barrett, who told Time magazine that it was her lesbian love affair that gave her strength to serve God. Bishop Moore claims that the ordination of lesbians, and his other Gnostic heresies, are merely part of the ongoing revelation of God's truth to man by the Holy Spirit, which had been prophesied by the Disciple John. With this dissembling rationale, Bishop Moore has transformed the Cathedral of St. John the Divine into a Gnostic stronghold for such organizations as:
The Lucis Trust, founded in 1922 by Alice Bailey, a disciple of Theosophist Madame Helena Blavatsky.
Originally named the Lucifer Trust, it became a mother institution of the modern New Age movement: The Temple of Understanding, which is headquartered at the cathedral under its president, the Very Reverend Dean James Parks Morton, dean of the cathedral.
It has turned the cathedral into a harbor for,
Gnostic religions ranging from Tibetan Buddhism to Sufi Freemasonry The medieval village of Lindesfarne, New York, which is to be the model for a New Age lifestyle, once the Earth has been purified of its billions of non-white souls A special ministry to Sufi Freemasons who were a historical deployment against Ibn Sina and the Arab Renaissance, and whose modern-day cathedral affiliates have been linked to the assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat The Zen Center, which teaches meditation to the elite of the Liberal Establishment Gay and lesbian organizations, which seek to legitimize their sin by arguing that the "beloved disciple" John had a homosexual affair with Christ, or else by creating Mother Goddess religions in the cathedral's crypts A medieval chivalric order known as the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John, which, under the direction of the Duke of Gloucester of the British Royal Family, has inculcated the "Episcopagan" American Establishment in such Gnostic evil as the necessity to spread Shi'ite fundamentalism under the Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran, because the Shah had "sinned" by trying to industrialize his nation
Gnostic religions ranging from Tibetan Buddhism to Sufi Freemasonry
The medieval village of Lindesfarne, New York, which is to be the model for a New Age lifestyle, once the Earth has been purified of its billions of non-white souls
A special ministry to Sufi Freemasons who were a historical deployment against Ibn Sina and the Arab Renaissance, and whose modern-day cathedral affiliates have been linked to the assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat
The Zen Center, which teaches meditation to the elite of the Liberal Establishment
Gay and lesbian organizations, which seek to legitimize their sin by arguing that the "beloved disciple" John had a homosexual affair with Christ, or else by creating Mother Goddess religions in the cathedral's crypts
A medieval chivalric order known as the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John, which, under the direction of the Duke of Gloucester of the British Royal Family, has inculcated the "Episcopagan" American Establishment in such Gnostic evil as the necessity to spread Shi'ite fundamentalism under the Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran, because the Shah had "sinned" by trying to industrialize his nation
The serried ranks of the dead among Jim Jones's "Peoples Temple" cult, who had consumed cyanide-laced Kool-Aid on orders from Jones, are merely the more public casualties of the Age of Aquarius, when those bearing the "Mark of the Beast" (666) are to be unleashed upon the Earth once again.
Throughout the United States, the Satanic New Age movement has grown to become a major threat to the Judeo-Christian tradition upon which our republic was founded.
Among the more recent signs of this upsurge are the Atlanta child murders, the case of New York child-beater Joel Steinberg, and the mass murder of school children in Stockton, California by a drug addict wearing a "Satan" T-shirt.
The Soviet connection There is a national security dimension to the growth of the New Age movement.
Starting in 1982, Bishop Moore returned from the Soviet Union to warn that unless the Anglo-American Establishment carried out appeasement of the Soviets, the Russians would launch a thermonuclear first strike.
Moore, who entered the 1970s "peace movement" by visiting with the Vietcong-controlled, underground peace movement in Vietnam, had by 1983 joined with the pro-terrorist Institute for Policy Studies and the U.S.A.-Canada Institute of the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences, to mobilize the American peace movement to stop the Strategic Defense Initiative.
Thirty top Soviet intelligence officers, who were joined by Bishop Moore, gave marching orders to the American peace leadership to this effect in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1983. Last February, the Cathedral of St. John the Divine hosted a "February Fling," sponsored by the Temple of Understanding, which brought together top Soviet officials to meet with their counterparts in the West. Through Fr. Luis Dolan, who travels to the U.S.S.R. every six weeks to get marching orders from officials of the CPSU International Department-controlled Soviet Peace Center, the Temple of Understanding overlaps the Center for Soviet-American Dialogue, which is involved in extensive exchanges, whose purpose is to remove the "enemy image" of the U.S.S.R. being an "evil empire."
Father Dolan also works with Wainwright House, which has several programs along the same lines and which hosted a U.S.-U.S.S.R. Citizens Summit. Spokesmen for the Lucis Trust believe that Mikhail Gorbachov may be the premier world leader in their "Externalized Hierarchy," giving impetus to a "Plan" for a "new world order" of Luciferian values and behavior. The Lucis Trust also carries out exchanges with the Soviet Union, where they believe "Triangle Cells'' pray the "Great Invocation'' for the coming Age of Aquarius.
These Luciferians welcome Gorbachov, who bears the "Mark of the Beast'' on his forehead.
Isis priestess of the Aquarian Age The New Age movement's enthusiasm for Gorbachov is really no surprise.
The roots of this movement date back to the 1870s, when Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (nee Princess Hahn in 1831 in Ekaterinoslav, Georgia) was deployed by a combination of "Black Hundreds'' forces that included the Okhrana (Czarist secret service) and the Russian Orthodox Church, to destroy Augustinian Christianity in the West, through the creation of an ideology known as Theosophy, which was a syncretism of Eastern religions.
As one Theosophical Society brochure made clear, its goal was,
"to oppose the materialism of science and every form of dogmatic theology, especially the Christian, which the Chiefs of the Society regard as particularly pernicious."
The deployment of Madame Blavatsky into the West had been part of the same effort - called the "Dostoevsky Project" by the Theosophically-inspired Frankfurt School - which led the Okhrana to unleash the Scottish Freemasonic forces of the liberal Alexander Kerensky, then the "dark forces" of the Bolsheviks (many of whom, including V.I. Lenin, had been trained on the Isle of Capri in the cult beliefs of the Emperor Tiberius, who murdered Christ), for an assault upon the Petrine state.
Among those principally responsible for deploying Blavatsky into the West were:
Count Alexander Ignatiev, one-time head of the Okhrana as interior minister, whose family later joined with the Bolshevik Revolution Imperial Privy Councilor Prince Aksakov, whose correspondence with Blavatsky reveals him to be a key controller Fyodor Dostoevsky, whose writings have regained popularity under Gorbachov, because they were a19th-century revival of the Russian Orthodox Church's "blood-and-soil" doctrine that Moscow would become "the Third and Final Rome" Mikhail, Vladimir, and Vsevelod Soloviev, who, from such bases as the St. Petersburg Ecclesiastical Academy, propounded the doctrines of Spiritualism that are being revived in Russia today, and who profiled Blavatsky as Tentacles of the Blavatsky deployment extended quickly through the West: United States - In 1873, Blavatsky traveled to the U.S., where with the Spiritualist Colonel Olcott, she founded the American Theosophical Society, whose headquarters became Pasadena, California. Colonel Olcott had been involved in seances at this time on a farm in Chittenden, Vermont, with Mary Baker Eddy, who founded Christian Science as co-extensive with Theosophy. Later, Olcott accompanied Blavatsky to Adyar, India, which became the spiritual center of the cult. Great Britain - In 1883, Blavatsky's disciple Annie Besant, who later assumed Blavatsky's mantle as High Priestess of Theosophy, was a co-founder of the British Fabian Society (predecessor of the Labour Party) together with Gnostic Christians and Spiritualists, including the Spiritualist Frank Podmore, later British Prime Minister J. Ramsay Macdonald, Soviet agent Lord Haldane, Lord and Lady Passfield, the Freemason William Clarke, Earl Bertrand Russell, Viscount and Viscountess Snowden, Lord Sidney Oliver, Lord Thomson, and others. In the same year, Scottish noble Douglas Dunglas Home, who had sponsored Blavatsky as early as 1858 and given seances for the Czar, returned to Great Britain, where with support of the Cecil family, he founded the Society for Psychical Research, whose members included Arthur Conan Doyle, Lord Balfour, Lord Bertrand Russell, John Dewey, and William James.Another excrescence of Theosophy was the explicitly Satanist Edward Aleister Crowley's Order of the Golden Dawn (or, Stella Matutina), which overlapped the predominantly Anglo-American Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO) and the Thule Society in Munich, which gave birth to the Nazi Party through the good offices of Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Karl Haushofer, Rudolf Hess, and the Wagner Kreis. Germany - Blavatsky's co-controller, Count Aksakov, established in Leipzig, Germany a Theosophical magazine, Psychische Studien, which was influential upon the careers of Sigmund Freud and especially Carl Jung. It also influenced the schismatic Theosophist Rudolf Steiner, who founded in 1913 the Dornach, Switzerland-based Anthroposophy sect, which has lately been a leading influence within West Germany's Free Democratic Party, and also the seed-crystal in southern Germany of the fascist Green party. [2] Meanwhile, in the 1920s, a Berlin-based Theosophist, Graf von Reventlow, founded a European network of the Comintern's Baku Conference of "Oppressed Peoples,'' which sought to merge Marxism with Sufism. Switzerland - The Ascona, Switzerland secret base of Theosophy - centered around a cult of Astarte - was the spiritual center of the Frankfurt School, which overlapped the Soviet GRU (military intelligence) through such founders as Hede Massing, Richard Sorge, and Max Horkheimer, who developed the "Authoritarian Personality'' dogma to target and destroy those who based their behavior upon natural law. Ascona was also a spiritual center of the "Children of the Sun'' gay and lesbian networks, which overlapped the Philby, Burgess, Maclean spy network in Great Britain. Finally, Ascona was the religious center for the Theosophical psychiatrist Carl Jung, popularizer of the Gnostic Bible. Among Jung's disciple-patients were: Mary Bancroft, the mistress-secretary of Allen Dulles, who was OSS chief in Switzerland during World War II; and Mary and Paul Mellon, who, on their return to the U.S. in 1939, founded the Bollingen Foundation to propagate Gnosticism and a study center on witchcraft at Princeton University. Also, Lenin himself participated in cult dances on Monte Verita in Ascona.
Count Alexander Ignatiev, one-time head of the Okhrana as interior minister, whose family later joined with the Bolshevik Revolution
Imperial Privy Councilor Prince Aksakov, whose correspondence with Blavatsky reveals him to be a key controller
Fyodor Dostoevsky, whose writings have regained popularity under Gorbachov, because they were a19th-century revival of the Russian Orthodox Church's "blood-and-soil" doctrine that Moscow would become "the Third and Final Rome"
Mikhail, Vladimir, and Vsevelod Soloviev, who, from such bases as the St. Petersburg Ecclesiastical Academy, propounded the doctrines of Spiritualism that are being revived in Russia today, and who profiled Blavatsky as Tentacles of the Blavatsky deployment extended quickly through the West:
United States - In 1873, Blavatsky traveled to the U.S., where with the Spiritualist Colonel Olcott, she founded the American Theosophical Society, whose headquarters became Pasadena, California. Colonel Olcott had been involved in seances at this time on a farm in Chittenden, Vermont, with Mary Baker Eddy, who founded Christian Science as co-extensive with Theosophy. Later, Olcott accompanied Blavatsky to Adyar, India, which became the spiritual center of the cult.
Great Britain - In 1883, Blavatsky's disciple Annie Besant, who later assumed Blavatsky's mantle as High Priestess of Theosophy, was a co-founder of the British Fabian Society (predecessor of the Labour Party) together with Gnostic Christians and Spiritualists, including the Spiritualist Frank Podmore, later British Prime Minister J. Ramsay Macdonald, Soviet agent Lord Haldane, Lord and Lady Passfield, the Freemason William Clarke, Earl Bertrand Russell, Viscount and Viscountess Snowden, Lord Sidney Oliver, Lord Thomson, and others.
In the same year, Scottish noble Douglas Dunglas Home, who had sponsored Blavatsky as early as 1858 and given seances for the Czar, returned to Great Britain, where with support of the Cecil family, he founded the Society for Psychical Research, whose members included Arthur Conan Doyle, Lord Balfour, Lord Bertrand Russell, John Dewey, and William James.Another excrescence of Theosophy was the explicitly Satanist Edward Aleister Crowley's Order of the Golden Dawn (or, Stella Matutina), which overlapped the predominantly Anglo-American Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO) and the Thule Society in Munich, which gave birth to the Nazi Party through the good offices of Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Karl Haushofer, Rudolf Hess, and the Wagner Kreis.
Germany - Blavatsky's co-controller, Count Aksakov, established in Leipzig, Germany a Theosophical magazine, Psychische Studien, which was influential upon the careers of Sigmund Freud and especially Carl Jung. It also influenced the schismatic Theosophist Rudolf Steiner, who founded in 1913 the Dornach, Switzerland-based Anthroposophy sect, which has lately been a leading influence within West Germany's Free Democratic Party, and also the seed-crystal in southern Germany of the fascist Green party. [2]
Meanwhile, in the 1920s, a Berlin-based Theosophist, Graf von Reventlow, founded a European network of the Comintern's Baku Conference of "Oppressed Peoples,'' which sought to merge Marxism with Sufism.
Switzerland - The Ascona, Switzerland secret base of Theosophy - centered around a cult of Astarte - was the spiritual center of the Frankfurt School, which overlapped the Soviet GRU (military intelligence) through such founders as Hede Massing, Richard Sorge, and Max Horkheimer, who developed the "Authoritarian Personality'' dogma to target and destroy those who based their behavior upon natural law. Ascona was also a spiritual center of the "Children of the Sun'' gay and lesbian networks, which overlapped the Philby, Burgess, Maclean spy network in Great Britain.
Finally, Ascona was the religious center for the Theosophical psychiatrist Carl Jung, popularizer of the Gnostic Bible. Among Jung's disciple-patients were: Mary Bancroft, the mistress-secretary of Allen Dulles, who was OSS chief in Switzerland during World War II; and Mary and Paul Mellon, who, on their return to the U.S. in 1939, founded the Bollingen Foundation to propagate Gnosticism and a study center on witchcraft at Princeton University. Also, Lenin himself participated in cult dances on Monte Verita in Ascona.
Alice Bailey and the Lucis Trust Alice La Trobe Bateman was the founder in 1920 of the Lucifer Trust, which represented a syncretism of Gnostic Christianity with Blavatsky's Theosophy. Bailey's Gnostic doctrine transformed God into Nietzschean Will, while Christ is considered merely a lowly part of the many "Ascended Masters," who form a "Hierarchy," that is eventually to be "externalized" to carry out a "Plan" for a "new world order" that is otherwise known to Bailey's disciples as the Age of Aquarius or Age of Maitreya.
The Lucis Trust, which today has Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) status at the United Nations and has been given legitimacy by the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, has spawned an array of New Age fronts, including the Temple of Understanding. Born in Britain, Alice was raised an Episcopalian, before separating from her first husband, a drunken missionary to the United States, who beat her frequently. Relocated from Britain to the West Coast, she was recruited into the Pacific Grove Lodge of Theosophy in 1915. By 1920, she became editor of the American Theosophists' newspaper, The Messenger.
In this same year she married Foster Bailey (a Scottish Rite Freemason and Co-Mason), and she launched a fight with Annie Besant for control of Theosophy, which Alice Bailey lost, when Besant's man, Louis Roger, was elected president. Immediately after the dust settled, Alice and Foster Bailey founded their own Tibetan Lodge, then the Lucifer Trust, whose name was abridged in 1922 to its present Lucis Trust. By the 1930s, Bailey claimed 200,000 members, and her faction of Theosophy grew even more rapidly after Krishnamurti in 1939 denounced Besant's scheme to promote him as the Messiah. Throughout these years, Bailey spent her summers in Ascona, Switzerland, where along with Mary and Paul Mellon, she attended Jung's Eranos Conferences.
Bailey established a series of fronts, which include:
The Arcane School Founded in 1923, the school gives correspondence courses in meditation from its branches in New York, Geneva, London, and Buenos Aires. A brochure states: "The presentation of the teaching adapted to the rapidly emerging new civilization stresses the training of disciples in group formation, a technique which will characterize the discipleship service in the Aquarian Age." World Goodwill Founded in 1932, the organization is recognized by the United Nations today as an NGO. Ever since the dropping of the atomic bomb (which is seen by these kooks as a spiritual manifestation of Luciferian light), Lucis Trust has sought to give the U.N. a monopoly over nuclear weapons with which to impose a "one world federalist empire" upon sovereign nations. World Goodwill works directly with the "world federalists," and is part of the work to "Externalize the Hierarchy" of "Illumined Minds," which will usher in an "Age of Maitreya," otherwise interpreted by Bailey to be the return of Christ prophesied in the biblical book of Revelations. Triangles Founded in 1937, Triangles is the name for a global network of cells, whose members pray a "Great Invocation," especially on the night of the full moon, when members of the Triangle can be influenced by the astrological signs of the zodiac. Findhorn This is the sacred community of the New Age movement, based in Great Britain. Bailey disciple David Spangler, another explicit Luciferian, became co-director of the Findhorn Foundation, when he formed the Lorian Association. He sits on the boards of directors of Planetary Citizens, the secretariat of Planetary Initiative for the World We Choose (launched at the Cathedral of St. John in 1982), and is a contributing editor to New Age Magazine.
The Arcane School
Founded in 1923, the school gives correspondence courses in meditation from its branches in New York, Geneva, London, and Buenos Aires. A brochure states: "The presentation of the teaching adapted to the rapidly emerging new civilization stresses the training of disciples in group formation, a technique which will characterize the discipleship service in the Aquarian Age."
World Goodwill
Founded in 1932, the organization is recognized by the United Nations today as an NGO. Ever since the dropping of the atomic bomb (which is seen by these kooks as a spiritual manifestation of Luciferian light), Lucis Trust has sought to give the U.N. a monopoly over nuclear weapons with which to impose a "one world federalist empire" upon sovereign nations. World Goodwill works directly with the "world federalists," and is part of the work to "Externalize the Hierarchy" of "Illumined Minds," which will usher in an "Age of Maitreya," otherwise interpreted by Bailey to be the return of Christ prophesied in the biblical book of Revelations.
Triangles
Founded in 1937, Triangles is the name for a global network of cells, whose members pray a "Great Invocation," especially on the night of the full moon, when members of the Triangle can be influenced by the astrological signs of the zodiac.
Findhorn
This is the sacred community of the New Age movement, based in Great Britain. Bailey disciple David Spangler, another explicit Luciferian, became co-director of the Findhorn Foundation, when he formed the Lorian Association. He sits on the boards of directors of Planetary Citizens, the secretariat of Planetary Initiative for the World We Choose (launched at the Cathedral of St. John in 1982), and is a contributing editor to New Age Magazine.
But, Lucis is not limited to low-level Satanists.
When he was Secretary of Defense in the early-1960s, Robert McNamara prayed to the full moon along the Potomac River, according to journalist Edith Roosevelt. The Lucis Trust endorsed McNamara's tenure as head of the World Bank - which is hardly surprising, since Lucis believes in the Blavatskyian "Great White Brotherhood," which is consistent with the neo-malthusian aim of the International Monetary Fund to exterminate darker-skinned races. [3]
Not only does Bailey explicitly seek to destroy the nation state, which she equates with the "idealism" of the Age of Pisces, but in her 1954 work Education in the New Age, she also endorses Nazi eugenics and sex hygiene to purify the race.
Apart from U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, spokesmen for Lucis view Mikhail Gorbachov as the greatest world leader externalizing their "Plan" today.
The Temple of Understanding The Lucis Trust in 1963 founded a more distanced front group, the Temple of Understanding, which also has NGO status and worked out of the U.N. premises directly, until in 1984 it shifted headquarters to the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.
The Lucis Trust and the Temple remain covertly entwined to this day. While the chairman of the Temple is Judith Dickerson Hollister, those involved with its founding were:
the late "Isis Priestess" of anthropology, Dame Margaret Mead of the Order of St. John Order of St. John's Canon Edward West U.N. deputy secretary general Robert Muellar, who had been involved as well with the Lucis Trust Winifred McCulloch, leader of the New York-based Teilhard de Chardin Society
the late "Isis Priestess" of anthropology, Dame Margaret Mead of the Order of St. John
Order of St. John's Canon Edward West
U.N. deputy secretary general Robert Muellar, who had been involved as well with the Lucis Trust
Winifred McCulloch, leader of the New York-based Teilhard de Chardin Society
Dormant for several years after a major expose by Edith Roosevelt, the Temple was revived at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in 1984 at a ceremony presided over by Bishop Paul Moore and the Dalai Lama. According to the past executive director, Priscilla Pedersen, its present board overlaps that of David Rockefeller's Trilateral Commission.
Recent activities of the Temple include:
Global Forum of Spiritual and Parliamentary Leaders on Human Survival. Held in Oxford, England April 11-15, 1988, its luminaries included the Dalai Lama, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Carl Sagan. Co-organizers of the Global Forum were the Temple of Understanding and the Global Committee of Parliamentarians on Population and Development, which latter advocates neo-malthusian population reduction as the solution to the world's ills. Present also at the conference were four Soviet Communist Party Central Committee members, including Dr. Evgenii Velikhov, Vice President of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. At the Global Forum, Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz, founder-director of the Israel Institute for Talmudic Publications, agreed with Velikhov to set up an institute to gather the Judaica of Russia.In January 1990, the Oxford Global Forum will be followed by a Temple of Understanding event in Moscow, which is being sponsored by the Russian Orthodox Church, the Supreme Soviet, and the Soviet Academy of Sciences. The main thrust of the follow-on conference will be to get world religious and political leaders working together on such neo-malthusian ecological schemes as the "greenhouse effect" hoax. This is merely a global replay, which has the backing of the Soviet Union, which agreed to a Dartmouth Conference proposal in the 1960s to promote ecology in exchange for unilateral Western arms control deals. The North American Interfaith Network It was established last year to bring together the major religions in a theocratic institutional network. Its director is Rev. Daniel Anderson, a Lutheran, who was recently co-opted to be executive director of the Temple, working out of the Cathedral of St. John. The Wichita North American Assisi Conference This conference, held Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 1988 in Wichita, Kansas, was in preparation for the 1993 celebration of the centennial of the launching of the "New Religions" movement by Chicago Round Tabler William T. Stead. Like the Global Forum, the Wichita conference brought together American Indians, Sikhs, Sufis, Buddhists, Islamic fundamentalists, and Jews. February Fling This was a two-week celebration at the Cathedral of St. John in 1988, to promote 100 prominent Soviets. It was co-sponsored by the Temple of Understanding and the Center for Soviet-American Dialogue. Catholic priest Fr. Luis Dolan, who sits on the board of both institutions, was the organizer of the tour. Father Dolan is head of the Citizens Diplomacy Center of Wainwright House, which sponsors a multitude of East-West exchange programs oriented toward removing the "enemy image'' of the U.S.S.R. as an "evil empire."
Global Forum of Spiritual and Parliamentary Leaders on Human Survival.
Held in Oxford, England April 11-15, 1988, its luminaries included the Dalai Lama, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Carl Sagan. Co-organizers of the Global Forum were the Temple of Understanding and the Global Committee of Parliamentarians on Population and Development, which latter advocates neo-malthusian population reduction as the solution to the world's ills.
Present also at the conference were four Soviet Communist Party Central Committee members, including Dr. Evgenii Velikhov, Vice President of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. At the Global Forum, Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz, founder-director of the Israel Institute for Talmudic Publications, agreed with Velikhov to set up an institute to gather the Judaica of Russia.In January 1990, the Oxford Global Forum will be followed by a Temple of Understanding event in Moscow, which is being sponsored by the Russian Orthodox Church, the Supreme Soviet, and the Soviet Academy of Sciences. The main thrust of the follow-on conference will be to get world religious and political leaders working together on such neo-malthusian ecological schemes as the "greenhouse effect" hoax.
This is merely a global replay, which has the backing of the Soviet Union, which agreed to a Dartmouth Conference proposal in the 1960s to promote ecology in exchange for unilateral Western arms control deals.
The North American Interfaith Network
It was established last year to bring together the major religions in a theocratic institutional network. Its director is Rev. Daniel Anderson, a Lutheran, who was recently co-opted to be executive director of the Temple, working out of the Cathedral of St. John.
The Wichita North American Assisi Conference
This conference, held Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 1988 in Wichita, Kansas, was in preparation for the 1993 celebration of the centennial of the launching of the "New Religions" movement by Chicago Round Tabler William T. Stead. Like the Global Forum, the Wichita conference brought together American Indians, Sikhs, Sufis, Buddhists, Islamic fundamentalists, and Jews.
February Fling
This was a two-week celebration at the Cathedral of St. John in 1988, to promote 100 prominent Soviets. It was co-sponsored by the Temple of Understanding and the Center for Soviet-American Dialogue.
Catholic priest Fr. Luis Dolan, who sits on the board of both institutions, was the organizer of the tour. Father Dolan is head of the Citizens Diplomacy Center of Wainwright House, which sponsors a multitude of East-West exchange programs oriented toward removing the "enemy image'' of the U.S.S.R. as an "evil empire."
Wainwright House's Institute for Spiritual Development was directed by Judith Hollister, the founding chairman of the Temple of Understanding.
Through Father Dolan, Wainwright House has pledged to work on four East-West projects in 1989 with the Temple. Among these is a project on ecology, for which Wainwright House has received funding from Lawrence Rockefeller to promote. Another board member of the Temple is the Rabbi Arthur Schneier, self-described as the "Jewish Armand Hammer."
Rabbi Schneier controls the question of emigration of Jewish Refuseniks, and a colleague states that he has lined up with Edgar Bronfman to call for repeal of the Jackson-Vanik trade amendment, because under Gorbachov, Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union has increased.
Center for Soviet-American Dialogue The Center is a major back channel between the New Age movement and the U.S.S.R., and has been taken over by New Age leaders including:
Barbara Marx Hubbard She is a founding member and co-director of the Soviet-American Council for Joint Projects. She co-founded Win-Win-World and is President of the Foundation for Co-Creation. Her name was placed in nomination for the vice presidency on the Democratic ticket in 1984. Hubbard, who entered the New Age movement under the influence of Teilhard de Chardin, created a "human front" in 1967 of those sharing a belief in transcendent consciousness, which became the Committee for the Future. Hubbard called this transcendent consciousness "supra-sex," and she has an extensive network of congressmen involved in the process of haruspication. Willis Harman President of the Institute of Noetic Sciences and Senior Social Scientist at the Stanford Research Institute International. The Institute for Noetic Sciences has worked closely with the Temple of Understanding, while SRI has had among its trainees such figures as former Secretary of State George Shultz, who believes not only in global-power sharing "New Yalta" arrangements with the U.S.S.R., but also in convergence through a New Age based upon cybernetics. Harman is the brains behind Marilyn Ferguson, whose book The Aquarian Conspiracy sought to popularize Luciferian Gnosticism. Harman is also a founding member of Hubbard's Soviet-American Council for Joint Projects, and he is chairman of the Independent Commission for a Viable Future. Harman's own 1974 The Changing Image of Man coined the phrase "paradigm shift" to describe the sought-after transformation from the Age of Pisces to the Age of Aquarius. James A. Garrison Executive director of the Soviet-American Exchange Program at the Esalen Institute, which has been linked directly to Soviet "psychic espionage" activities of the KGB and GRU, penetrating the U.S. military and intelligence communities. This is the modern work of the Blavatsky-Okhrana intelligence deployment, which works today through the likes of Soviet "spoonbender" Yuri Geller.
Barbara Marx Hubbard
She is a founding member and co-director of the Soviet-American Council for Joint Projects.
She co-founded Win-Win-World and is President of the Foundation for Co-Creation. Her name was placed in nomination for the vice presidency on the Democratic ticket in 1984.
Hubbard, who entered the New Age movement under the influence of Teilhard de Chardin, created a "human front" in 1967 of those sharing a belief in transcendent consciousness, which became the Committee for the Future. Hubbard called this transcendent consciousness "supra-sex," and she has an extensive network of congressmen involved in the process of haruspication.
Willis Harman
President of the Institute of Noetic Sciences and Senior Social Scientist at the Stanford Research Institute International.
The Institute for Noetic Sciences has worked closely with the Temple of Understanding, while SRI has had among its trainees such figures as former Secretary of State George Shultz, who believes not only in global-power sharing "New Yalta" arrangements with the U.S.S.R., but also in convergence through a New Age based upon cybernetics.
Harman is the brains behind Marilyn Ferguson, whose book The Aquarian Conspiracy sought to popularize Luciferian Gnosticism. Harman is also a founding member of Hubbard's Soviet-American Council for Joint Projects, and he is chairman of the Independent Commission for a Viable Future.
Harman's own 1974 The Changing Image of Man coined the phrase "paradigm shift" to describe the sought-after transformation from the Age of Pisces to the Age of Aquarius.
James A. Garrison
Executive director of the Soviet-American Exchange Program at the Esalen Institute, which has been linked directly to Soviet "psychic espionage" activities of the KGB and GRU, penetrating the U.S. military and intelligence communities.
This is the modern work of the Blavatsky-Okhrana intelligence deployment, which works today through the likes of Soviet "spoonbender" Yuri Geller.
Notes (not in original article)
[1] Posted version revised 11/18/01. The version previously posted contained errors due to the fact that I obtained it from http://www.omphalos.net/files/anti/EI R_SAT1.html, which is missing quite a bit of information. I did the best I could at filling in the missing information, but I left some of it blank, and some of what I filled in turned out to be wrong. By sheer luck, I downloaded it again from the aforementioned source on impulse, and again on impulse opened it with Corel Wordperfect 8.0. To my amazement, the missing information appeared highlighted in red, although somewhat garbled. With a little work, I was able to reconstruct it.[2] Steiner broke from the Blavatsky-Besant-Bailey brand of "Theosophy" because it had been "hijacked" by various forces with selfish and evil agendas. He indicated that his mission was to purify Theosophy. It appears to me that his teachings are being misused to convey an aura of authority on certain movements which take them out of context.[3] The term "white" in this case refers to a class of initiates, not skin color, although I share Thompson's mistrust of Bailey's "guides" and doubt that they were members of this benevolent class.
[1] Posted version revised 11/18/01. The version previously posted contained errors due to the fact that I obtained it from http://www.omphalos.net/files/anti/EI R_SAT1.html, which is missing quite a bit of information. I did the best I could at filling in the missing information, but I left some of it blank, and some of what I filled in turned out to be wrong.
By sheer luck, I downloaded it again from the aforementioned source on impulse, and again on impulse opened it with Corel Wordperfect 8.0. To my amazement, the missing information appeared highlighted in red, although somewhat garbled. With a little work, I was able to reconstruct it.[2] Steiner broke from the Blavatsky-Besant-Bailey brand of "Theosophy" because it had been "hijacked" by various forces with selfish and evil agendas. He indicated that his mission was to purify Theosophy. It appears to me that his teachings are being misused to convey an aura of authority on certain movements which take them out of context.[3] The term "white" in this case refers to a class of initiates, not skin color, although I share Thompson's mistrust of Bailey's "guides" and doubt that they were members of this benevolent class.
Return to Lucis (Lucifer) Trust
