# The Making of World Wars

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_makingworldwars.htm

by Henry Makow Ph.D.
from SaveTheMales Website
Contents Globalism is Behind Marxist Subversion of America, War on Terror - January 1, 2002 What the Elite Media Doesn't Say About the War - January 9, 2002 The War on Terror: A Bad Movie Directed by an Evil Cabal - March 6, 2002 On the Brink of Nuclear War - July 16, 2002 Is Iraq the Start of the Third World War? - October 7, 2002 The Zionist Roots of the "War on Terror" - November 18, 2002 Elite Sets the Stage for World War Three - March 24, 2003 A Different View of the War on Terror - April 04, 2004 The "Quiet War" Against Humanity - July 17, 2004 Countdown to World War Three - August 15, 2004 Are World Wars Orchestrated? - May 14, 2005 Real "Star Wars" Makes the Movie Seem Tame - May 28, 2005 War on Terror is Elite Mind Control - April 21, 2006 The "Ugly" Cause of World War Two - April 28, 2006 Bankers Bash Bush, Pump Global War - July 21, 2006 Preview of World War Three - September 01, 2006 The "Matrix" of Manufactured War - January 19, 2007 Additional Information The Actual Iran Case - The Beginning of World War III? "The Pink Swastika" - by Kevin Abrams and Scott Lively
Contents
Globalism is Behind Marxist Subversion of America, War on Terror - January 1, 2002
What the Elite Media Doesn't Say About the War - January 9, 2002
The War on Terror: A Bad Movie Directed by an Evil Cabal - March 6, 2002
On the Brink of Nuclear War - July 16, 2002
Is Iraq the Start of the Third World War? - October 7, 2002
The Zionist Roots of the "War on Terror" - November 18, 2002
Elite Sets the Stage for World War Three - March 24, 2003
A Different View of the War on Terror - April 04, 2004
The "Quiet War" Against Humanity - July 17, 2004
Countdown to World War Three - August 15, 2004
Are World Wars Orchestrated? - May 14, 2005
Real "Star Wars" Makes the Movie Seem Tame - May 28, 2005
War on Terror is Elite Mind Control - April 21, 2006
The "Ugly" Cause of World War Two - April 28, 2006
Bankers Bash Bush, Pump Global War - July 21, 2006
Preview of World War Three - September 01, 2006
The "Matrix" of Manufactured War - January 19, 2007
Additional Information
The Actual Iran Case - The Beginning of World War III?
"The Pink Swastika" - by Kevin Abrams and Scott Lively
Return to Atomic Power and the Use of Depleted Uranium (DU) Weapons
Return to Globalization - The Octopus of the New World Order
Return to The Middle East Exopolitical Saga
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The New World Order
Return to Global Militarism
Return to 'War on Terror'
Globalism is Behind Marxist Subversion of America, War on Terror January 1, 2002 How would you explain the following? Communism has been discredited in both Russia and China, yet the Communist Party slogan, "politically correct," has become part of the vernacular in the United States. The Rockefeller Foundation funded all of:
The site of the United Nations headquarters in NYC. The Pacific Institute, a Soviet-infiltrated think tank that influenced U.S. acceptance of Communist China in the 1940's. The invention of the contraceptive pill, and the IUD. The father of modern "sexual liberation," Dr. Alfred Kinsey, a gay pederast and pornographer.
The site of the United Nations headquarters in NYC.
The Pacific Institute, a Soviet-infiltrated think tank that influenced U.S. acceptance of Communist China in the 1940's.
The invention of the contraceptive pill, and the IUD.
The father of modern "sexual liberation," Dr. Alfred Kinsey, a gay pederast and pornographer.
Marxism and lesbianism, disguised as feminism (and equal rights for women which I support), has been unleashed on America like a deadly virus.
Marxists control education and the social services and use their position to destroy Judeo Christian values. They have vast influence in justice and the media. The heterosexual family is besieged: Between 1960 and 1998, the percentage of single-parent families have tripled, and one third of all American children live apart from their fathers. The national birthrate is down by 50%. Homosexuality is taught in elementary schools. In the media, promiscuity and pornography are sold as a substitute for marital fulfillment. I have been searching for a political paradigm to explain why the "establishment" has allowed all of the above. My search has lead me to so-called conspiracy theories. I was surprised to discover that, generally speaking, there is only one conspiracy theory, and it is pretty credible: The world is run by a super-rich elite. Far from being a threat, Marxism (i.e. Communism, now disguised as feminism) is actually subsidized and used by the super-rich to weaken and destabilize the West. The plan, bizarre as it sounds, is to formalize elite control of the world in the United Nations. Through Rockefeller fronts like the Council for Foreign Relations, international banks, secret societies, and intelligence agencies, the super-rich have been laying this plan since the League of Nations. Most of our political leaders have been in on it, which may explain why the world is in such rough shape. The best summary of this outlook is William F. Jasper's "Global Tyranny... Step by Step: The United Nations and the Emerging New World Order." As a former Leftist, I never imagined I would ever recommend anything by the John Birch Society. Beginning in my teen years, I marched for Negro Civil Rights, protested the Vietnam War, spent $50,000 fighting Free Trade (NAFTA) and sponsored a small pro-Sandinista newsletter. In my mind, the John Birch Society was always "a fanatical Right-wing group." I was brainwashed by the Liberal-Marxist media, and given a set of beliefs that made me, and millions like me dysfunctional. It will take more research to substantiate this new political paradigm. Here are some of the directions I will follow. The Birchers say the super-rich use Marxism to maintain economic monopoly and social control. By setting up Soviet Russia, they eliminated potent capitalist rivals. At the same time, they created a dangerous political rival that galvanized Americans and required huge military expenditures. Today, they use the Marxist virus (feminism) to instill group-think, foster homosexual dysfunction and to take the upbringing of children away from heterosexual families. They hand power and position to their members of the Feminist Party and their allies. Self-righteous and self-deluded, Liberals, Marxists and even some Conservatives are instruments of a super-rich totalitarian elite. Journalists, professors, politicians and businessmen, they are the new Communist Party, preying on the people. The Birchers say the "downfall of Communism" in Russia is mostly cosmetic. The Communist elite has simply sloughed off the unworkable burden of Marxist dogma and grabbed Russia's wealth for themselves. Now they don't even pretend to share it. Under KGB operative Putin, the "nomenclatura" will play its familiar role in the New World Order. At its formation, the acting Secretary General of the United Nations, Alger Hiss, was actually a Soviet agent. Another was Harry Hopkins, FDR's closest advisor. Hopkins spoke of "a New Deal for the world," "a worldwide leveling and redistribution of wealth," and a new "democratic world order." The Birchers say the UN is a Marxist organization devoted to serving the world's elite. It usurps our democratic rights by passing laws which supersede Congress. Its true face can be seen in the anti Semitic spectacle of the Durban Conference, its lesbian anti-family declarations, its complicity in the slaughter of Africans, and its role in Kosovo and other globalist actions. Its sisters, the IMF and the World Bank regularly bankroll brutal Marxist dictatorships. When I became a Conservative, I was in favor of globalism because I thought it represented healthy capitalism. I was opposed to the protesters in Seattle etc. and cheered for the police. Now I wonder if I should join the demonstrators. If Marxism is indeed a tool of elite control, old distinctions of Left and Right no longer apply. The only distinction is between democracy and global dictatorship. Which brings me to the current "War on Terror." I'd like to see Osama bin Laden and Sadam Hussein destroyed. But I have a feeling that their crime partly consists in threatening the New World Order. I suspect that terrorism is being used to galvanize the US population in the interests of a hidden agenda.
"The 'Report from Iron Mountain on the Possibility and Desirability of Peace' an elite document leaked in 1967 talks about the need to find 'a political substitute for war' in order to control the social agenda. The environment, health and poverty were all considered and found wanting." "It is more probable in our opinion," they opined, "that such a threat will have to be invented..." (Jasper,131)
"The 'Report from Iron Mountain on the Possibility and Desirability of Peace' an elite document leaked in 1967 talks about the need to find 'a political substitute for war' in order to control the social agenda.
The environment, health and poverty were all considered and found wanting."
"It is more probable in our opinion," they opined, "that such a threat will have to be invented..." (Jasper,131)
With the "downfall" of Communism, a new threat, "the war on terror" apparently has been found. I have a hunch that elements in the US intelligence establishment were aware of the attack planned for Sept. 11.
It bears too great a similarity to other outrage attacks like the sinking of the USS Maine (1898), the Lusitania (1915) Pearl Harbor (1941) all used to mobilize the public for war. The WTC attack also resembles the recent Oklahoma City bombing (1995) which seems designed to discredit militias who oppose globalism. I cheer the troops as much as anyone. I appreciate the Al Queda is a real danger. But I wonder if the hidden agenda is to convince us that we need the New World Order, totalitarian elite world government, to protect us from terrorism. The Bush Administration continues to support feminist and "multi cultural" programs. The latest example: it supports the provision of US government services in foreign languages despite the fact that the Supreme Court has ruled it unnecessary. This further undermines national cohesion. Patriotism is a worthy emotion. Unfortunately, it can be used against us. I'm afraid that some day people who defend cherished American values of democracy, individual freedom, equal opportunity and self reliance will be labeled "terrorists". The signs of subversion and tyranny are everywhere. Americans are in the elite globalist cross-hairs. Our sexual identities, families and morals are being assaulted. Oklahoma City and Sept. 11 may be examples of the lengths to which the elites will go. Sincere people on both Left and Right must join to expose the New World Order. Happy New Year. Back to Contents
What the Elite Media Doesn't Say About the War January 9, 2002
"In a time of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act." --George Orwell
"In a time of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act."
--George Orwell
America's leading TV networks and newspapers are called "the elite media." The adjective "elite" does not indicate distinction. It indicates ownership. Every day, elite news sources compete to offer the identical version of recent events. It is a mighty thin gruel: reporters masticate for hours on the tiniest morsels provided by their stingy masters. As with Russians raised on Pravda, we are forced to read between the lines: A convoy of Afghanis is incinerated; 65 are killed. The military says they were Taliban. To its credit, the elite media picks up reports they were Afghani tribal leaders en route to the inauguration in Kabul. Who were they really? Afghanis who were too "independent"? The elite media, with all its resources, never says. People who look for answers must rely on the Internet. There, independent researchers provide a schizophrenia-inducing alternate reality. For example, we learn that "9-11" is the oldest deception in the political play book, evoking Hitler's 1933 Reichstag fire which allowed him to assume dictatorial powers. The war was planned years ago in order to build an oil pipeline from Central Asia to the Indian Ocean. (See Zbignieuw Brzezinski, The Grand Chessboard, 1998).
The new Afghani leader, Hamid Karzai, was employed as a consultant by the pipeline company, Unocal. Condoleezza Rice was a director of Chevron from 1991-2001, and even has a tanker named for her. Chevron is the principle partner with Kazakhstan in the development of the huge Caspian Sea oil reserves.
When the Taliban refused a pipeline right-of-way, the US threatened,
"if we can't bury you in gold, we'll bury you in bombs."
See this story in South Asian Outlook.
What follows is a sampler from a few more web sites. This is a more nourishing stew but buyer beware!
Peter Goodgame has a fascinating essay, "America Is Falling into an Illuminati Trap" which says Osama Bin Ladin is a pawn of global elites who use Islamic terrorism to undermine nation states (eg. US, Israel, India, Pakistan) and bring about elite-controlled world government. Many Islamic terror groups are still head quartered in London and some are trained there by "former British army officers." He cites an interview with Dr. Tatyana Koryagina, a member of Russian President Putin's brain trust who said the Sept. 11 strike was aimed at "the de stabilization and destruction of America." She said the operation was not the work of 19 terrorists but a larger group seeking to reshape the world. She claimed a group of extremely powerful private persons, with total assets of about $300 trillion, intends to legalize its power and to become the new world government. The Sept. 11 strikes "showed that this group is afraid of nothing: human lives have zero value for them." A story by Carl Cameron, a senior correspondent with Fox News is an illustration of what happens when the elite media stray from the beaten path. This story documents massive Israeli spying in the US including the arrest of 200 Israelis. This spying would have given Israel foreknowledge of Sept. 11. And if Israel knew, others must have known. This story apparently was suppressed from the Fox News Archives.
Inquiries are greeted with the notice:
"This story does not exist."
It can now be found at http//www.angelfire.com/oh2/elevatorbrewing/houston52.htm.
Another web site, "What Really Happened" contains much provocative information. Here are some examples:
A growing number of fire protection engineers have theorized that "the structural damage from the planes and the explosive ignition of jet fuel in themselves were not enough to bring down the towers." Fire Engineering Magazine is calling for an inquiry.
Three articles that appeared in the international press prior to Sept. 11 state that the US had secured Indian and Russian support for a war against the Taliban as early as last March.
The names of the alleged hijackers released by the FBI do not even appear on the published passenger lists of the four hijacked flights. Indeed the passenger lists are notable for the scarcity of any Arabic sounding names. The web site gives the passenger lists, and says seven of the alleged hijackers were found alive and well in the Middle East:
"Because the IDs used by the hijackers were phony, we cannot know who they really were or who they really worked for... Not only does the drinking in strip bars not fit the profile of a fanatically religious Muslim willing to die for his cause, but the witness reports of the men in the bars are of men going out of their way to be noticed and remembered, while waving around phony identifications."
Investigator Michael C. Ruppert's web site has much important information including a story which traces huge speculation in United Airlines put options, in advance of Sept. 11, to a firm connected to the top echelons of the CIA. A companion piece suggests that under the UN, opium poppy production will soon be up and running again. Ruppert, a former LAPD investigator, has begun a speaking tour to expose the current war on terror as a hoax. Noam Chomsky has a book entitled "9-11" which is reviewed by a former WTC employee on Barnes and Noble, as follows:
"You will learn more about the September 11th attacks from this little book than you will from watching Fox News for 100 years."
William Thomas also has a important book "All Fall Down: The Politics of Terror and Mass Persuasion" which describes the events of Sept. 11 as a "silent coup in America." There is a another great web site with links to pictures of smoke pouring out of one WTC tower before the plane crash at: http//home.online.no/~mdaas/daastol/EurasianGreatGame Conservatives should consider what these people are saying. If they are correct, the old divisions between Left and Right are obsolete. We may now face a brazen seizure of dictatorial power by the elites. Most patriotic Americans, including some members of the Bush administration, may not realize what is happening. Furthermore, as the facts of 9-11 emerge, I sense a new anti-war movement will swell the ranks of the anti globalization cause. It will make the Kennedy Assassination and the anti-Vietnam protests look like picnics. Will opponents of the "war on terror" also be branded terrorists? Finally, recent events prove that information is power. The elite media has shown itself to be a cringing servant of power, and an effective instrument of propaganda and social control. The Internet may be our only source of information, and our only hope for the preservation of freedom. Back to Contents
The War on Terror: A Bad Movie Directed by an Evil Cabal March 6, 2002 If the "War on Terror" were a movie, I would give it 2 1/2 stars. Why? The plot is unbelievable and has been used many times before. The major roles are miscast. How's this for implausible? An international terror organization, Al Quaeda, is capable of hijacking four jetliners simultaneously and crashing three into targets. Yet, in the six months since Sept. 11, this formidable organization has done practically nothing. It can't even claim credit for the anthrax-laced letters. Apparently these came from a former US government scientist. The international oil and banking cabal (Rothschild-Rockefeller-Morgan) that directs world events should fire their scriptwriters at the Council on Foreign Relations and the CIA for recycling a tired old gimmick. It was used in the Spanish American War, World War I, and World War II (i.e. attacks on the USS Maine, the Lusitania and Pearl Harbor).
Couldn't they just be honest with the American people and say:
"Hey, we want an Afghanistan pipeline and control of Iraqi and Iranian oilfields. We control Saudi Arabia and Kuwait but that's not enough. We also want to alienate a billion Moslems in order to justify a permanent military and security buildup. You see, militant Muslim believers are going to replace Communism as the enemy. We will use this to consolidate elite control domestically and internationally and bring about the New World Order."
But then, who'd die for that? I'd venture that this evil cabal has been behind both sides of every war for the last century. It financed and controlled Nazism and Communism. You can see it at work in India fostering hatred between Muslims and Hindus. You see it at work in the Middle East. The vast majority of Israelis and Palestinians want to live in peace. There is plenty of room for everyone, especially if you include Jordan. If the cabal, which bankrolls all three countries wanted, there could be peace in an instant. But since it controls the Arabian oilfields and feels threatened by Arab nationalism, it prefers to have the Arabs and Israelis at each other's throats. Divide and conquer. This is why it supported the creation of Israel in the first place. I believe G-d's will is that Jews and Muslims live together in peace and mutual respect. Both sides should renounce violence immediately. Right now, the devil is rubbing his hands with glee. They are falling into his trap. The leaders on both sides of every conflict are puppets. Osama bin Laden is definitely miscast as the evil terrorist. He seems too gentle and spiritual. The cabal did a far better job when they cast Adolph Hitler for World War II. Osama bin Laden is implausible because 1) he was (is?) a CIA operative (remember the CIA works for the cabal, not for the U.S.) 2) his organization freely operates out of London, England 3) his family was/is business partner of George Bush Sr. in the Carlyle Group, a defense conglomerate. Dubya (from "W") is also miscast as the free world superhero and avenger. Despite our desperate desire to believe in someone, Dubya reminds us of the spoiled rich kid who partied all the time and flunked. While the role calls for someone of the stature of Winston S. Churchill, we are reminded of Alfred E. Neuman.
Instead of Churchill's eloquence, we get sound bites like this one last week:
"People don't see the compassionate side of America. For example they don't know that each year we give 350,000 tons of food to the North Korean people. The North Koreans would thank us but they probably don't know where this food is coming from. In fact, I don't know if they are getting it."
I don't want to give away the plot here, but I suspect that the reason actors like Dubya are of such poor quality is that they are disposable. I'm afraid that before we have seen the last of Dubya, he will be the most hated man in America. Like a victim of Tourette's Syndrome, his administration can barely conceal its fascist agenda. Calling the emergency measures a "Shadow Government" is an example. The cabal makes money from war. There is nothing like war to expand expenditures and borrowing. The cabal fosters war by bankrolling disgruntled minorities and extremists. It created Adolph Hitler, Joseph Stalin, and Sadam Hussein. It created Osama bin Laden. But don't think the cabal just wants money and power. It wants to kill people, the more the better. The fewer the people, the more wealth there will be for it. The good news is that the cabal is not racist. The bad news is that it doesn't care whom it slaughters. War is a charade, a grim toll on humanity, a meat grinder into which millions of innocent lives and dreams are fed. World War One was good for 20 million lives. World War Two topped that with 55 million.
In "The New Dealers' War," Historian Thomas Fleming, not a conspiracy theorist, estimates eight million lives, including 425,000 Americans, were lost because of Roosevelt's insistence on unconditional surrender.
"Unquestionably, this ultimatum was written in blood," says Fleming. (p.467) Hitler's generals were ready to depose Hitler and make peace but FDR would have nothing to do with them. Thus they were forced to fight to the death. According to Fleming, this policy was the recommendation of Norman H. Davis, "a J.P. Morgan banker" (p.181) and a Director of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Did America require unconditional surrender because of its hatred of Nazism? Sure. That's why Nazis were put into power in post-war West Germany. No the purpose of this policy was to kill more people (and allow Russia to conquer Eastern Europe.) War offers many opportunities for culling the race. The firebombing of German and Japanese cities served no strategic purpose unless you want to kill two million more. Eisenhower starved two million German prisoners of war to death. Another two million anti Communist Russians who fought with the Germans were turned over to Stalin by the Allies and exterminated. We'll save Allied complicity in extermination of the Jews for another time. This is why I'm worried that this movie will not have a happy ending. It's set up so a nuclear or biological attack can slaughter millions of Americans, and Osama bin Laden will be blamed. The terrified public will be stampeded into accepting totalitarian rule. At the same time, millions of Jews and Arabs could be consumed in a Middle East cataclysm. You say I'm paranoid. I define paranoia as "a condition derived from reading history." Amazing as it sounds, the cataclysms of the 20th century were part of a long-term conspiracy to destroy western civilization and bring the world under pagan elite control. The strategy is to grind humanity down by fomenting conflict and war. The events of September 11 are a reminder that the same cabal is shaping the new millennium. Back to Contents
On the Brink of Nuclear War July 16, 2002 In the summer of 2002, most Americans seem blissfully unaware that the world teeters at the brink of a nuclear catastrophe. The latest Debka-Net-Weekly "intelligence" bulletin reports that Sadaam Hussein is in the throes of a decision: whether to launch a preemptive strike on U.S. forces surrounding Iraq, or to wait until the Americans strike first. Based on its detailed inside information, www.Debka.com most certainly originates with the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad. Hussein's considerations are as follows:
If he waits, the U.S. will be fully prepared and he cannot predict if his armed forces will remain loyal. On the other hand, if he attacks first, he will give the US and Israel a pretext to strike with everything they have, even nuclear weapons. His best option may be to use nuclear weapons first. Israel would be a tempting target.
In Debka's words:
"Military preparations [that] Saddam has set in train [suggest] that he is inching closer to his crucial decision. They all signal his active contemplation of biological, chemical - and even a variety of nuclear - weapons against long-range targets... Many experts believe Iraq has set up secret stores for its nuclear devices, such as radiological bombs... Persistent reports suggest also a nuclear weapons unit equipped with cruise missiles developed in Iraq from the naval missiles bought from China and Belarus."
"Military preparations [that] Saddam has set in train [suggest] that he is inching closer to his crucial decision. They all signal his active contemplation of biological, chemical - and even a variety of nuclear - weapons against long-range targets...
Many experts believe Iraq has set up secret stores for its nuclear devices, such as radiological bombs...
Persistent reports suggest also a nuclear weapons unit equipped with cruise missiles developed in Iraq from the naval missiles bought from China and Belarus."
Yes, Iraq apparently already has nuclear weapons, although Debka doesn't say how sophisticated they are. So much for the argument that Hussein must be removed before he gains "weapons of mass destruction." Indeed Debka states that one of Hussein's current options is:
"A mega-terror strike against the United States or Israel with conventional, nuclear, chemical or biological weapons - that would attain such calamitous proportions as to undo America's military and political position for the Middle East. Whatever the surface appearances, therefore, the immediate horizon seems to hold greater promise of conflict than of diplomacy."
Jews and Arabs are in a genocidal embrace of tragic consequence both for the inhabitants of the Middle East and for the human race in general. It was set in motion in the Balfour Declaration (1917) when Rothschild and the British elite promised the Holy Land to both Zionists and Arabs. The declaration called for a Jewish homeland while at the same time it defended the rights of the indigenous Arab population. The intention was for the Zionists to serve as the vanguard of imperialist interests in the Middle East, a role the Zionists were only too eager to assume. According to Ralph Schoenman's book "The Hidden History of Zionism," which is online, Israel always planned to expand its borders and to disperse the Palestinians. He cites the diaries of former Israeli PM Moshe Sharett, which describe longstanding plans to "dismember the Arab world, defeat the Arab national movements and create puppet regimes under regional Israeli power." George W. Bush's current plan to dismantle Iraq and redraw the map of the Middle East along fragmented ethnic lines apparently has been the secret Israeli agenda for 50 years. Whoever fires the first shot, it seems that Israel and the United States are the aggressor in this the first major imperialist war of the 21st Century. The attack on the World Trade Center Sept. 11 precluded any need for public debate in the United States. For this reason, the Mossad (with the cooperation of the CIA) most likely is behind the attack. I am just guessing here but the elite probably has a double agenda in case the US and Israel do not execute this war to perfection. That agenda is to discredit and undermine both countries in order to further the fascist New World Order. After the slaughter of millions of people, including tens of thousands of American soldiers, humanity will be traumatized and ready for "permanent peace" guaranteed by the United Nations, which is controlled in turn by the elite banking and oil cartels. The elite seems to divide into two "house teams" - Left and Right - for most conflicts. (Thus it backed both Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia). Thus John Pilger inveighs against America's perfidy in The Guardian and NWO stalwart Michael Gorbachev cautions against America's folly. Hidden History of Zionism author Ralph Schoenman's career seems to have been underwritten by the NWO sounding "Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation." No doubt the elite's second team has provided Iraq and its allies Syria, Saudia Arabia and Iran with enough funding and weaponry to ensure that the upcoming war will be sufficiently costly and devastating for both sides. If Islamic terror did not exist, the US and Zionist expansionists would have had to invent it. Perhaps the Hamas should have taken a page out of the Israeli play book and practiced "targeted assassinations" i.e. singling out the principals instead of the uninformed and manipulated public. This policy was followed with great effectiveness by the Irish nationalist Michael Collins, and recorded in the movie by the same name. What is the way out of this imbroglio? Clearly Americans must prevent George W. Bush's attack on Iraq. Once it has begun and loses are incurred, it will be too late. There will be an unthinking patriotic reaction. The American people must realize they are being used as mercenaries by malevolent one world interests, who also are measuring the US for a coffin. Similarly, Israelis must join their courageous "refuseniks" in renouncing the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza strip, and any expansionist designs. They must reaffirm their support for a Palestinian state, acknowledge Israel's injustices against the Palestinian people, and compensate them generously. In the same spirit, the Palestinians must recognize Israel's right to exist along its 1967 boundaries. The Middle East is the Crucible of three great world religions which each state that all men are brothers and should live in peace and love. This is the wish of humanity. Satanic forces are at work to ensure that this doesn't happen. The consequences for you and me and all mankind will be tragic. Back to Contents
Is Iraq the Start of the Third World War? October 7, 2002 In a letter dated August 15, 1871, Albert Pike, a Satanist and practitioner of the occult, said the Illuminati would need to engineer Three World Wars to bring about the New World Order. Pike, who was Grand Commander of US Freemasonry from 1859-1891, said the first war would establish Communism in Russia. The second would take advantage of the differences between "the Fascists and the political Zionists" and would weaken Christendom while empowering Communism and Zionism. The Third World War would take advantage of the differences between Zionism and Islam and would ensure that both destroy each other. After World War Three, the people of the world will embrace Lucifer:
"Without compass or direction, anxious for an ideal, but without knowing where to render its adoration, [the people] will receive the true light through the universal manifestation of the pure doctrine of Lucifer, brought finally out in the public view."
Is Iraq the beginning of World War Three, as Pike projected? I hope not. I prefer to see it in the context of Panama, Yugoslavia and Afghanistan, as a "police action" designed to eliminate leaders that are too independent. None of these countries mounted significant resistance and I don't expect Iraq to. However Ariel Sharon represents a wild card. If he uses the war as a pretext to drive the Palestinians west of the River Jordan, it is possible that a larger conflagration might occur. For example, Egypt, Syria and Iran might attack Israel, which might use its nuclear arsenal. Since Pike speaks of destroying both Islam and Zionism, this may indeed be the Illuminati agenda. Certainly, worldwide shock and revulsion would provide an excuse to further entrench world government in the same way as the first two wars allowed the creation of the League of Nations and the United Nations. The origins of the Illuminati's Second World War provide a useful perspective on the possible third. I don't pretend to be an expert but I have developed the following hypothesis:
In the Treaty of Versailles (1919), the international bankers dictated punitive terms to Germany, thereby ensuring a rematch. Then, they used Communist Russia to help Germany rearm in contravention of their own treaty. The plan was to prepare Germany to challenge Britain and America, exhausting all three so Russia could emerge dominant.
Meanwhile they encouraged "right wing" elements in the U.S. and Britain to help Germany rearm, as a bastion against Russia. British and American investment created a formidable Nazi war machine. In the late 1930's, England and Russia each wanted Germany to engage the other. However, according to William Guy Carr's "Pawns in the Game" (online), Hitler regarded Communism as a greater threat to humanity and proposed an alliance with England. Hitler believed that Communism represented a conspiracy by Jewish international bankers to enslave humanity in order to maintain their monopoly on credit. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain was receptive to Hitler's view. This is true meaning of "the policy of appeasement" so successfully derided by (the world-banker-run) mass media and universities. However the bankers were able to block this alliance and ensured that the original fight card (Germany Vs. England) prevailed. Thus Hitler and Stalin made a pact on Aug. 24, 1939; the invasion of Poland took place Sept. 1. Britain declared war two days later. After conquering France, Hitler paused at Dunkirk and allowed the 350,000-man British army to escape. He still hoped to make a deal with England against Russia. Chamberlain remained receptive and didn't bomb Germany. The eight-month period between Sept. 3, 1939 and May 11, 1940, (when Churchill became PM) was full of intrigue. Churchill and Roosevelt, both puppets of the bankers, conspired behind Chamberlain's back to make certain England's "phony war" became real. Churchill was First Lord of the Admiralty at the time. Tyler Kent, a 29-year-old code clerk at the US embassy in London read the FDR-Churchill correspondence. Kent had served at the US embassy in Moscow from 1934 to 1939. Fluent in Russian, he,
"took the opportunity to meet and mingle with ordinary Russian citizens and learned first-hand the beastly nature of Bolshevism, realizing what it would mean if this oriental barbarism were to spread further."
See "The Roosevelt Legacy and the Kent Case" Kent writes:
"My awareness grew also of the worldwide ideology of the soi-disant "liberals," who gushed over what they called the "new civilization" of the Soviet Union. I began to see, dimly, the power of Jewish propaganda in the United States, which harped constantly on the alleged brutalities of the new National Socialist regime in Germany while simultaneously completely ignoring the far worse brutalities in the USSR. Yet the latter had antedated the Nazi regime by more than a decade. The reasons for this distorted and lop-sided picture soon became clear. In Germany, the burden of state action was falling upon Jews whereas in the Soviet Union, the secret police (NKVD) was almost entirely in Jewish hands until the very late 1930s. The administration of the gulags ("labor camps" which were virtually extermination camps) was wholly Jewish and thus the Jews could wreak their vengeance on their age-old adversaries among the Russian people."
"My awareness grew also of the worldwide ideology of the soi-disant "liberals," who gushed over what they called the "new civilization" of the Soviet Union. I began to see, dimly, the power of Jewish propaganda in the United States, which harped constantly on the alleged brutalities of the new National Socialist regime in Germany while simultaneously completely ignoring the far worse brutalities in the USSR. Yet the latter had antedated the Nazi regime by more than a decade.
The reasons for this distorted and lop-sided picture soon became clear. In Germany, the burden of state action was falling upon Jews whereas in the Soviet Union, the secret police (NKVD) was almost entirely in Jewish hands until the very late 1930s. The administration of the gulags ("labor camps" which were virtually extermination camps) was wholly Jewish and thus the Jews could wreak their vengeance on their age-old adversaries among the Russian people."
In 1936, Congress had enacted stringent neutrality legislation that prevented FDR from advancing the bankers' plan to embroil the US in another European war. US polls showed 83% favored neutrality. Only the Jewish community, 3% of the population, actively campaigned for US intervention. Tyler learned that FDR covertly had given the England and Poland promises of US intervention. Without that, the British would never have guaranteed Poland's sovereignty (the causis bellum) and Poland would have been more conciliatory. Churchill was desperate. Despite his bluster, Churchill told Roosevelt the British were finished unless the U.S. became involved. In an attempt to reprise the Lusitania sinking in 1915 by a German U-boat, Churchill sunk the American liner Athenia on Sept. 4, 1939. Thirty Americans drowned; Churchill blamed the Nazis. Tyler gathered this evidence of Churchill and FDR's duplicity to pass along to isolationist American Senators. But a week after Churchill became Prime Minister, Tyler was arrested and charged with treason. His rebuttal:
" A government employee takes an oath to 'support the laws and Constitution of the United States against all enemies, both foreign and domestic.' The Constitution reserves the power to make war and peace exclusively to Congress. But with brazen contempt for the will of the people, the law and the constitution, President Roosevelt conspired with a small circle of confidants to incite war in Europe and bring the United States into the conflict. He broke his oath to 'preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.'"
" A government employee takes an oath to 'support the laws and Constitution of the United States against all enemies, both foreign and domestic.' The Constitution reserves the power to make war and peace exclusively to Congress.
But with brazen contempt for the will of the people, the law and the constitution, President Roosevelt conspired with a small circle of confidants to incite war in Europe and bring the United States into the conflict. He broke his oath to 'preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.'"
Tyler's diplomatic immunity was waived. He was tried in secret by the British and sentenced to seven years. He was released and returned to the US in 1945 after serving five years. Although Tyler was never accused of giving any documents to the Nazis, he is routinely described in the world banker media as a fascist and a Nazis spy. It is a little known fact that Churchill imprisoned about 1200 "fascists" who were accused of traitorous and dangerous conspiracy to assist the enemy. These were associates of Tyler Kent who tried to alert Chamberlain to the Illuminati's secret agenda. They included Capt. Archibald Ramsay, M.P., his wife, Mrs. Christbel Nicholson (wife of an admiral) and Admiral Barry Domvile, a former chief of Naval Intelligence. One of Churchill's first deeds in office was to bomb German population centers. This provoked Nazi retaliation and the Battle of Britain. As I have said before, I am an assimilated Canadian Jew who believes in Christ's message. My family suffered from Nazi persecution and I have no fondness for Hitler. I had been left-leaning most of my live until I discovered that feminism is being used in place of Communism to shred the social fabric and create the "New World Order." I don't have the whole picture. I don't know whether the world bankers and the Illuminati are identical but they certainly work together. The Illuminati seem to use minorities, unwitting Jews, Zionists, Freemasons, Communists, feminists, and homosexuals to further their diabolical agenda. These tools are always liquidated when they have served their purpose. In my view, the Illuminati perpetrated the World Trade Centre atrocity to again manipulate Americans into declaring war. Again political Zionism is the biggest domestic factor. I don't believe that Muslim fundamentalists represent a genuine threat to the U.S. They are used to justify Israel expansion, and the further subjugation of Muslims, and indeed all of humanity. At the rate we're going, human civilization is doomed. Back to Contents
The Zionist Roots of the "War on Terror" November 18, 2002
Until recently I accepted Israel's self-image as a beleaguered, peace-loving nation in a sea of blood thirsty Arabs. The idea that this tiny state had imperialist designs seemed ludicrous.
But what if, unknown to most people, including Israelis, the world's power elite were using Israel to advance their plan for New World Order? What if Israel's role were to colonize the Middle East, and to become the seat of the World Religion?
But what if, unknown to most people, including Israelis, the world's power elite were using Israel to advance their plan for New World Order?
What if Israel's role were to colonize the Middle East, and to become the seat of the World Religion?
"Israel's Sacred Terrorism" (1980) by Livia Rokach, a 63-page on line monograph suggests that this bizarre scenario may not be so preposterous. Rokach's monograph is based on revelations from the personal diary of Moshe Sharett, who was Israeli's first Foreign Minister from 1948-1956, and Prime Minister from 1954-1956. According to this diary, which the Israelis tried to suppress, Israel's image of vulnerability was a ruse. Israel has always planned to become the dominant power in the region, and "invented dangers" in order to dupe its citizens and provoke wars. In his diary, Sharett quotes a conversation with Army Chief of Staff Moshe Dayan in May 1955:
"We face no danger at all of an Arab advantage of force for the next 8-10 years...Reprisal actions which we couldn't carry out if we were tied to a security pact are our vital lymph...they make it possible for us to maintain a high level of tension in our population and in the army. Without these actions we would have ceased to be a combative people... "
Sharett concludes:
"The state.... must see the sword as the main if not the only, instrument with which to keep its morale high and to retain its moral tension. Toward this end it may - no it MUST - invent dangers, and to do this it must adopt the method of provocation and revenge.... And above all, let us hope for a new war with the Arab countries so that we may finally get rid of our troubles and acquire our space." (41)
"The state.... must see the sword as the main if not the only, instrument with which to keep its morale high and to retain its moral tension. Toward this end it may - no it MUST - invent dangers, and to do this it must adopt the method of provocation and revenge....
And above all, let us hope for a new war with the Arab countries so that we may finally get rid of our troubles and acquire our space." (41)
"COVERT AGGRESSION" This policy of "reprisals" or "provocation and revenge" was also called "covert aggression." The U.S. "war on terror" is a continuation of it. Essentially it involves disguising a policy of aggression as retaliation for sham provocations. For example, Israeli patrols would cross the border to attack Jordanians or Egyptians, and then claim the actions took place in Israel. Once attacked, the army pursued the "aggressors" into enemy territory and wreaked havoc. Ariel Sharon was the leader of a squad ("Unit 101") that specialized in these murderous forays. His 1953 raid on the Jordanian village of Kibiyah killed dozens of civilians. (30) In March 1954, an Israeli bus traveling between Eilat and Beersheba was attacked and 10 passengers were killed. The UN armistice Commissioner, a Col. Henderson said, "from the testimonies of the survivors, it is not proved that all the murderers were Arabs." He attributed the attack to "terrorists intent on increasing the tensions in the area." (28) Thereupon the Israelis left the Armistice Commission in protest. In June-July 1954 an Israeli terrorist squad blew up many British and American institutions in Cairo in an attempt to sour relations between the Arabs and the West. Dubbed the "Levon Affair," possibly this was a precursor to the attack on the World Trade Centre. From the point of view of "covert aggression", if terrorism didn't exist, Israel would have to create it. Possibly, Israel's security establishment inspired some recent attacks on Israelis. In some instances, the terrorists are described as "white." Remember the sniper who killed 10 Israeli reservists at a checkpoint? If he were Arab, wouldn't he have struck again? Most Arab terrorism is no doubt authentic. But I wouldn't be surprised if at critical junctures, Israel's "security establishment was behind it. Israeli commentators lament that Israel is not a democracy. They say its security establishment has hijacked the country. One pundit remarked, "Israel is not a state with an army, but an army with an affiliated state." They also lament that a culture of corruption, brutality and immorality pervades the army. See Ran Ha-Cohen, "Israeli Elections. So What" I believe the Illuminati controls Israel's security establishment.
WHO IS THE ILLUMINATI? The world's wealthiest families have more in common with each other than they do with humanity. From their perspective, we are "useless eaters." In the guise of "globalism," they plan to increase and consolidate their wealth and power, and reduce everyone else's. The heart of the Illuminati's power is the banking and oil cartels, (Rothschild, Rockefeller) but it includes many interlocking cartels like media, pharmaceuticals, defense, illegal drugs and prostitution. It operates through the world's intelligence agencies, and groups like the Council on Foreign relations, which grooms all US leaders. Esoterically, the Illuminati is a secret society within another secret society, the Freemasons who are dedicated to sacrificing mankind to Lucifer. All of this sounds fantastic because it is kept out of the media and education systems, which are mental caretakers in an invisible asylum. Recently, Americans have been recruited to do the grunt work of subjugating Islam. This is not the first time the Illuminati has used the U.S. in this fashion. America was embroiled in World War One to free a million British soldiers to conquer Palestine for the Zionists. In the Second World War, the U.S. saved Communist Russia's bacon.
Both Communism and Zionism are creations and instruments of the central bankers.
THE USES OF ANTI SEMITISM The Illuminati has always used anti Semitism to trick Jews into advancing its nefarious goals. In the "Protocols of the Elders of Zion" the speaker confesses the illuminati has "wiped out every kind of rule except our own." Nevertheless it allows attacks on its plan for world domination in order to create anti Semitism.
"Anti Semitism is indispensable to us for the management of our lesser brethren." (9-2)
From childhood Jews are taught that they are disliked for no rational reason and Israel is insurance against another holocaust. This attitude dehumanizes their opponents and obviates the need for genuine self-criticism. Often the question is not, is something true or false? Right or wrong? But, "Is it good for the Jews?" Traumatizing people and convincing them that irrational fiends threaten their survival is an effective form of mind control. Such people will throw morality and reason to the wind and, if necessary, become savage, mindless killers themselves. They are easily exploited by forces that may not be Jewish at all, that may be anti Semitic, and plot their destruction. Now the Illuminati is using the same tactic on Americans. The Mossad's fingerprints are all over 9-11. Apparently, Israel's Zim Container Lines moved their 200-man office out of the WTC the week before and no Israelis died in the attack. Seven of the supposed Arab "hijackers" seem to be alive. If Osama bin Laden didn't exist, the United States and Britain would have created him. Osama may be genuine but there is evidence that he has received money from the British MI-6 as recently as 1996. According to the French daily Le Figaro, Ben Laden met with the CIA station chief in Dubai in July 2001. He serves the purpose of those inciting a bogus "clash of civilizations." In the domestic sphere, the persecution of Jews has become a cultural paradigm. Lately, women and gays are the Jews, taught they're oppressed by heterosexuality, and homosexuality is normal. . Millions of lives are being ruined. The Illuminati's hidden agenda is to destroy society's immune system (its ability to resist totalitarianism) by attacking its red blood cell, the nuclear family. In conclusion, "covert aggression" is the primary means by which the Illuminati enacts its long-term plan. Americans have been incited to become oppressors by a phony Muslim threat. Unaware of what's done in their name.
Americans are now like Jews asking, "Why do they hate us?"
Back to Contents
Elite Sets the Stage for World War Three March 24, 2003 Something very worrisome is happening. Some of Rockefeller's best toadies oppose the Iraq war. But Rockefeller and his ilk are responsible for this war. What gives? It appears the global elite is dividing its minions into two "house teams" again. The last time this happened we had the Fascist-Communist slugfest called World War Two. The same satanic cabal controlled both sides and picked Germany to take the fall. This time, the U.S., Britain and the "coalition of the willing" are on one side. On the other are France, Germany, Russia and China. The centre of global power is moving to China, Europe and Russia. I see a world war over Korea, or more likely Iran and control of Middle East oil. The U.S., overextended from Kuwait to Korea, will come up short. My guess is that the US will find itself increasingly isolated and vilified as a result of the Iraq war.
I suspect the hidden agenda is to bring down the world's last superpower; to replace the UN with a new instrument of "world government"; to kill a lot of people, and to wean Americans off democracy and their high standard of living.
GLOBALISTS AGAINST THE IRAQ WAR? Jimmy Carter, Nelson Mandela, George Soros, Mikail Gorbachev and Walter Cronkite are all globalist elder statesmen-for-hire. Curiously, they all oppose the Iraq war. Jimmy Carter, a creation of Rockefeller's "Trilateral Commission" publicly supported more UN inspections. Mikhail Gorbachev said the war is a big mistake. Nelson Mandela called it a "tragedy" and warned Bush was plunging "the world into a holocaust." Financial maven George Soros said:
"The Bush doctrine is grounded in power; legality and legitimacy are decorations."
Finally, Walter Cronkite, who is linked to Rockefeller's CFR warned:
"We are going to be in such a fix when this war is over, or before this war is over. Our grandchildren's grandchildren are going to be paying for this war. I look at our future as, I'm sorry, being very dark."
The leaders of Russia, France, Germany and China also voiced opposition with uncharacteristic bluntness. They must have the OK of the global money masters.
"Military action... is a big mistake," Vladimir Putin said. "Iraq has presented no danger..."
China urged the US and Britain to halt their military actions. France, Russia and Germany all refused a U.S. request to close their Iraqi embassies. North Korea apparently is preparing for war. Even in England, major newspapers like The Mirror have been scathing in their criticism of Tony Blair. British newspapers belong to the same clan.
I suspect England will defect to Europe's side before this fiasco is over.
PARALLELS TO WORLD WAR TWO Before World War Two, a faction of the British elite built up Hitler. This was known as the "policy of appeasement." After Hitler fell into the trap of attacking Poland, they did a "sleight of hand" and replaced the accommodating Chamberlain with the defiant Churchill. Iraq is a similar trap. The United States has squandered the sympathy and good will it earned on Sept 11. The images of the World Trade Centre have been replaced in the world's mind by the spectacular explosions in Baghdad. The US comes across as a bully too cowardly to pick on anyone its own size. Notch this victory up beside its thrashing of Grenada, Panama and Serbia. The gloating by US TV commentators is particularly distasteful to the outside world The damage to America's moral authority is incalculable. After this war, who will have sympathy for Americans if Chinese atomic bombs rain down on Los Angeles and New York? The devil degrades his victims before he destroys them.
ELITE TREASON For almost 100 years, the American leadership class has belonged to an international cabal that is determined to dissolve all human loyalties, including the nation state, and establish a global tyranny. George Bush, who is part of this cabal, has led the American people into a trap. Who in their right mind would deliberately alienate 1.3 billion Muslims? Of course Hussein is a bad man but this is not the motive. The U.S. is acting as gofer for the Zionists and the oil cartels, two leading parts of the cabal. They will come out ahead while Americans will foot the bill and take the brunt of Muslim indignation. Can the U.S. even count on Israel? At his trial, Israeli Spy Jonathon Pollard was called "the greatest traitor in the history of the United States" (Gordon Thomas, Seeds of Fire, p.31-32). In the words of CIA Director George Tenet, Pollard, an American Jew, stole "every worthwhile intelligence secret we have." In the year prior to his arrest in Nov. 1986, Pollard transmitted "over 360 cubic feet of top secret paper to Israel," his trial was told. According to Thomas, Israel's Mossad routinely trades information and technology with China's Secret Intelligence Service. (482) Pollard's information could have commanded a pretty price. Thomas says the theft from Los Alamos of the last 50 years of US nuclear research was also a joint Mossad-Chinese operation (33). He says an Israeli team inspected the American EP-3 spy plane the Chinese forced down in April 2001. (487) But Israeli espionage must be seen in the context of the treachery of the American political elite in general. During the Clinton Administration, there was massive transfer of critical military technology to China. For example, in late 1994 the Chinese bought and dismantled a McDonnell Douglas plant in Columbus OH that allowed them to produce ultra-modern airplanes and silkworm cruise missiles. This technology transfer is continuing under the Bush Administration. Consider the recent sale to China of a GM plant in Valparaiso IN, laying off hundreds of workers and moving sophisticated equipment used for making smart bombs.
This transfer of nuclear and other technology to China is reminiscent of what took place after World War Two when secrets of the atom bomb were provided to Russia. (See George Jordan USAF (ret) From Major Jordan's Diaries 1952.) Can you see the pattern?
Russia and China belong the cabal and are being used to subjugate the United States. China is to be the new hub because its people are already used to tyranny. In another parallel with the past, American industry is relocating to China and other low-cost countries. At least 3.3 million US white-collar jobs and $136 billion in wages will shift there by 2015. (See The New American magazine, March 10, 2003).
Similarly, Wall Street invested heavily in Nazi Germany in the 1930's. Standard Oil (through subsidiary I.G. Farben), General Motors, Ford, ITT and IBM were mainstays of the Nazi war machine. In conclusion, while Americans are distracted by jingoism and jiggle, they are being set up for a nasty fall. The leadership class has already "left the building" as it were. The end of the Iraq war will find the United States isolated and reviled. As the Bush cabal tries to push its advantage, it will come into conflict with China and other nuclear powers.
A major confrontation will ensue and an overextended US will be humbled. Americans will take a greatly reduced place in a new world order. Americans should direct their anger not at their country but against their political and cultural elite, which is corrupt, cowardly, and traitorous.
A Different View of the War on Terror April 04, 2004
All wars are really secret attacks on humanity by the world financial elite. The "War on Terror" is no exception. The recent media warnings of terrorist attacks on trains and buses this summer can be seen in this context. The financial elite is relatively small, cowardly and furtive. It needs us to fight its battles for it. It needs us to destroy ourselves fighting each other and to get further into debt. (This is how it enslaves us.) War has always been a fraud designed to help bring about a world police state. This is called the "new world order" a.k.a. "globalism." War is used to transform society. Both World Wars resulted in increased power for government and cartels, which the bankers run by proxy. Both World Wars resulted in calls for "world government." We don't recognize this conspiracy because we are not used to thinking long term. The gradual transfer of wealth and power to international finance has been going on for at least 200 years. It involves a complete transformation of humanity. This includes the destruction of race, religion, family and nation and the embrace of money, sex and violence. This is the hidden agenda behind much that is happening in politics and culture today. (See: "The Protocols is the NWO Blueprint" ) Don't count on professors, pundits and politicians to tell you this. They are sheep dogs, trained and well fed. But, you say, we are still prosperous and relatively free. The elite's first priority now is to suppress and secularize the Muslim world ("democracy," "women's rights".) It needs us to do this dirty work. Our heroic "peace keepers" are really the bankers' enforcers. They are using "Al Qaeda terror" as an excuse to erect a police state at home. While they prattle about "human rights," the Constitution and Bill of Rights are dismantled. We are becoming accustomed to "terror alerts" and intrusions into our privacy. The new security monolith is designed to quell future resistance to globalism. When they are finally ready to pull the plug, it will keep us in line . In the meantime, they distract us with easy credit, trivia, sex and sports.
TERROR IS USED TO MANIPULATE PEOPLE If wars are used to transform society, terror is used to justify wars. The bankers perpetrated the attack on the World Trade Centre to justify the assault on the Moslem world, and the "War on Terror." Invaders always pretend they are acting in self-defense. It's all unfolding according to an occult plan. On Sept. 11, 1990, George Bush Sr. made his "Toward a New World Order" speech at the UN. Eleven years later to the day, two planes smashed into the World Trade Centre. Terror is used to sway public opinion. Two weeks ago, an Israeli missile blasted the Hamas founder, Sheikh Yassin, a 68-year-old half-blind Muslim Cleric out of his wheel chair. Ariel Sharon's purpose was to incite further acts of indiscriminate terror against Israeli citizens. Ariel Sharon's policy is to eventually move the Palestinians beyond the giant wall. In order to do this, he must prepare the Israeli population for this "transfer." In 2000, less than eight per cent of Jewish Israelis said they were in favor. In 2002, that figure reached 44 per cent. Thanks to repeated suicide bombings, the figure is certainly rising above fifty per cent. Hamas terror definitely serves Sharon's purpose and that is why Israel has covertly supported them for years. Another example is the recent bombings in Spain two days before the elections. The Spanish Prime Minister was holding up passage of the EU Constitution. As a result of the carnage, he was defeated and replaced by a more amenable stooge. As Steve Bonta points out in the latest issue of "The New American," whenever terror takes place, ask, "Who benefits?" Did the Muslims benefit from Sept. 11? Would they benefit from indiscriminate acts of terror on American soil? (www.thenewamerican.com is an excellent source of information.)
WHAT CAN WE DO? People often ask this and I answer, " If we form movements, they will have us corralled and pick off the leaders. Think for yourself. Stop looking to others for answers. They fear individual initiative more than anything." What we don't do is just as important. The democratic system has been subverted and now is mostly a form of social control. The bankers control both parties and the means of mass persuasion. They frame the debate and the alternatives. So obviously, we should not waste much energy participating in the democratic process. The second thing is to stop watching TV. People are natural conformists. TV defines reality by setting social norms. Its subliminal message is that the politicians actually serve our interests, and despite problems, everything is OK. Take a look at "TV or Not TV" by Norman Grigg which elaborates on this theme. The bankers' conspiracy exploits peoples' idealism, whether they are communists, zionists, socialists, liberals, freemasons, feminists or neo conservatives. As long as we live in a nominal democracy, we can't do much until more people see the globalist agenda for what it really is. Educating ourselves is very rewarding. I used to seek transcendence in meditation but to my surprise I feel much more liberated since I learned how the world really works. In conclusion, the "War on Terror," like all wars is a fraud designed to advance world banker government by suppressing Islam and creating a police state at home. Back to Contents
The "Quiet War" Against Humanity July 17, 2004 The truth is at once simpler and more incredible than anyone could conceive. A satanic cult headquartered in the City of London holds mankind in bondage. They worship Lucifer and are determined to redefine reality and rule the planet. If you owned an unseemly proportion of the world's wealth, would you share it with the ignorant masses? Wouldn't you teach that God is dead, and Truth and Justice are purely subjective? Wouldn't you try to show that man is nothing but an animal fit to domesticate or destroy? Satanism has infiltrated Freemasonry and many other religions, institutions and groups. Secret Satanists control the levers of power: credit, mass media, education, government and the church. They appear as Liberals, Socialists, Conservatives, Zionists, Nazis and Communists etc. Many pay lip service to Christianity to deceive us. This cult is gradually corrupting, dehumanizing and conditioning us to accept a police state (New World Order). They lull and distract while they eliminate our freedoms and prepare for repression, using "terrorism" as a phony pretext. In a 1961 lecture, Aldous Huxley described this police state as "the final revolution": a "dictatorship without tears" where people "love their servitude." The goal is to produce,
"a kind of painless concentration camp for entire societies so that people will in fact have their liberties taken away ... but ... will be distracted from any desire to rebel by propaganda or brainwashing ... enhanced by pharmacological methods."
Among these pharmacologicals we now can recognize Ritalin, Prozac and Viagra, which healthy men commonly use for performance. Doctors are elite dealers designated to addict, distract and sedate society. A document entitled "Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars" confirms this is part of the war against humanity. It says "inoculation of behavioural drugs" can speed a child's transition from the soon-to-be extinct family unit to "state-controlled public education and state-operated child-care centers."
BLUEPRINT FOR SATANIC SUBVERSION Dated May 1979, "Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars" (Technical Manual SW7905.1) was found in 1986 in an IBM copier that had been purchased at a surplus sale. It is the product of a discipline called "Operations Research" developed during WWII to attack enemy populations using tools of social engineering and psychological warfare. According to the document, the "international elite" decided in 1954 to wage a "quiet war" against the American people with the goal of shifting wealth from "the irresponsible many" into the hands of the "responsible and worthy few."
"In view of the law of natural selection it was agreed that a nation or world of people who will not use their intelligence are no better than animals who do not have intelligence. Such people are beasts of burden and steaks on the table [sic] by choice and consent."
The goal was to establish an economy, which is "totally predictable and manipulatible." The masses will have to be "trained and assigned a yoke... from a very early age..." To achieve such conformity, the "family unit must be disintegrated by a process of increasing preoccupation of the parents and the establishment of government operated daycare centers for the occupationally orphaned children." This is accomplished through "silent weapons" (propaganda and social engineering) applied in the media and schools.
"The public cannot comprehend this weapon and therefore cannot believe that they are being attacked and subdued by a weapon." "When the silent weapon is applied gradually, the public adjusts...until the pressure becomes too great and they crack up...Therefore the silent weapon is a type of biological warfare.... It attacks ...their sources of natural and social energy and their physical, mental and emotional strengths..."
Although not mentioned by name, the silent weapon here is Feminism, which promotes lesbianism while posing as the defender of women. The document says the father must be "house broken." The advertising media see to it that he is "pussy whipped" and "taught that he either conforms... or his sex life will... be zero." The female is "ruled by emotion first and logic second... too starry eyed to see [her child will be] a wealthy man's cannon fodder or a cheap source of slave labor." The writer concludes,
"This mindless school of jelly fish, father, mother, son and daughter, becomes useful beasts of burden..."
"DIVERSION THE PRIMARY STRATEGY" The document speaks of "gaining control of the public" by keeping them "undisciplined, ignorant, confused, disorganized and distracted."
" Keep the public diverted away from "the real social issues and captivated by matters of no importance." "Sabotage their mental activities" by a "constant barrage of sex, violence and wars in the media" i.e. "mental and emotional rape." "Give them 'junk food for thought' and deprive them of what they really need," especially a sound education. "Keep the public entertainment below the sixth-grade level." "Work: Keep the public busy, busy, busy with no time to think; back on the farm with the other animals." "Destroy the faith of the American people in each other."
" Keep the public diverted away from "the real social issues and captivated by matters of no importance."
"Sabotage their mental activities" by a "constant barrage of sex, violence and wars in the media" i.e. "mental and emotional rape."
"Give them 'junk food for thought' and deprive them of what they really need," especially a sound education.
"Keep the public entertainment below the sixth-grade level."
"Work: Keep the public busy, busy, busy with no time to think; back on the farm with the other animals."
"Destroy the faith of the American people in each other."
The general rule:
"there is profit in confusion; the more confusion, the more profit. Therefore the best approach is to create problems and then offer solutions."
"THE WELFARE STATE AS STRATEGIC WEAPON" The public wants the government to,
"perpetuate their dependency role of childhood. Simply put, they want a human god to eliminate all risk from their life, pat them on the head, kiss their bruises, put a chicken on every dinner table...tuck them in and tell them everything will be alright...."
The "human god" is the politician who promises the world and delivers nothing. This public behavior is,
"surrender born of fear, laziness, and expediency. It is the basis of the welfare state as a strategic weapon, useful against a disgusting public."
The public's lack of resistance is a sign that it,
"is ripe for surrender and is consenting to enslavement and legal encroachment. A good ...indicator of harvest time is the number of public citizens who pay income tax despite an obvious lack of reciprocal or honest service from the government."
EXAMPLES OF SILENT WEAPONS People may object that this document is yet another forgery. However, people who are conscious can see that this blueprint already has been executed. The promotion of homosexuality under the guise of "tolerance" and "equality" is an example of the silent weapon. The equation of homosexual marriage with heterosexual marriage is a brazen denial of the uniqueness of heterosexuality. While they blather about human rights, they viciously attack the health and happiness of 97% of the population. The difference between heterosexuality and homosexuality is one word: children. Homosexuals do not have biological children. Becoming parents is an essential step in heterosexual development. This requires that we form a permanent bond that is unique to us. (see "Relearning Heterosexual Love") Homosexuals could have a special class of marriage with all the same rights and responsibilities. But they are used to confuse the majority so we don't bond and suffer arrested development as a result. (See "Canada Redefines Marriage" ) Feminism is another example. By denying healthy natural heterosexual roles, women usurp the place of men as providers and have few or no children, often as single parents. Men become redundant or "wives." Family is destroyed and society destabilized.
OTHER SILENT WEAPONS The mass media and education mislead, manipulate, distract and deform. "Mental and emotional rape," they call it. While we have material plenty, our minds and souls are starved for truth. We are conditioned to think about trivia or evade reality altogether. No coverage or debate is given to the insidious progress of world government and the erosion of national independence. Because there will be no meaningful nationhood or democracy, the young are not taught history or civic virtues. Sex is promoted as a lifelong obsession. Pornography is rampant. We are not supposed to have mature concerns, such as the sort of world our children will inherit. When was the last time you saw a movie that taught or inspired you? That contained recognizable human situations and emotions? That addressed the real issues we face? That warmed your heart and made you glad to be alive? When did a movie present a hero you could adopt as a role model? Mankind has the intelligence to create a wonderful world. We are being sabotaged. Satan's disciples are responsible for the murder of scores of Presidents and other leaders, for depression, genocide and war including the bogus "Cold War" and it's successor the "War on Terror."
All wars are against humanity organized by this satanic cult. Their headquarters is Chatham House in London and their branch office is at Pratt House in NYC. The web of control extends through the Rockefeller Rothschild banking and oil cartels, corporations, foundations, think tanks, intelligence networks and governments. The logos of scores of huge corporations, including mass media, contain Masonic references. Our political, economic and cultural "leaders" have sold their souls and betrayed society. They are literally servants of Satan. Otherwise they would not tolerate that both Presidential candidates are members of a Satanic secret society, the Skull and Bones. They would not tolerate the obvious ruse that took place Sept. 11. They imagine they will be privileged in the New World Order.
History has shown that everyone is expendable.
CONCLUSION We call ourselves "progressive", but that is another example of doublespeak. The "progress" is being made by the Illuminati. While man was made in God's image, human life was sacred. When we agreed God was dead, we became expendable. That's why the author of "Silent Wars" can refer to us as "beasts of burden" and use the "Darwinian struggle" to justify enslavement and genocide. Satan is not content to destroy us physically. He has a wager with God. Are we made in God's image or not? In order to win, he needs to prove we are nothing but dumb animals. Lack of resistance signifies our acquiescence. We have been "progressively" demoralized and lulled. We must shake off our stupor and show that we are not jelly fish but men who will fight for our Divine birthright. This is a battle humanity can never evade. The longer it is postponed the harder it will be to win. Back to Contents
Countdown to World War Three August 15, 2004 As fighting resumes in the holy city of Najaf, more may hinge on the outcome than we realize. In a provocative article, Joe Vialls reveals that Iran and Saddam's Iraq have a covert military alliance and began joint preparations for this war after the Gulf War ended in 1991. Iran already has nuclear capability and recently threatened to "wipe Israel off the map" if Israel attacked its nuclear facilities. Vialls says the cleric Al Sadr is tied to the Iranians.
"As we shall see, if Moqtada al-Sadr is killed or maimed, we will be into an altogether new and exceedingly lethal ball game," says Vialls.
As you know, a large part of the US fleet is out of port and probably near Iran. Many observers believe there will be a US attack on Iran after the US election, no matter who wins. Iran has a military alliance with Russia. These events should be seen in the perspective of a letter written by Albert Pike, the Grand Commander of American Freemasonry in 1871 and published in 1925. The letter foresaw three world wars designed to bring about Illuminati world hegemony. Each war planted the seeds for the next. For example, the Second World War was designed to ensure the destruction of Germany, the expansion of Communist Russia and the establishment of the State of Israel. It unfolded exactly as Pike described and set the stage for the next war.
"The Third World War must be fomented by taking advantage of the differences caused by the "agentur" of the "Illuminati" between the political Zionists and the leaders of Islamic World," Pike wrote.
"Agentur" means "agent." The same term is used in another Illuminati document "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion" which dates from the same period. The key point here is these wars are contrived. They are "caused by agentur of the Illuminati" on both sides. These agents owe their first loyalty to the Illuminati not to their countries. Their aim is to destroy their respective countries and profit from the carnage. Pike continues:
"The [third] war must be conducted in such a way that Islam (the Moslem Arabic World) and political Zionism (the State of Israel) mutually destroy each other."
The rest of the world will be drawn in.
"Meanwhile the other nations, once more divided on this issue will be constrained to fight to the point of complete physical, moral, spiritual and economical exhaustion..."
At this point they will be constrained to accept the Luciferian one-world government. Iran is rumored to have missiles that would reach England. I suspect China is also being built up by the illuminati to attack and destroy the USA. See "Elite Sets the Stage for World War Three" Pike's complete letter and valuable background can be found on an excellent web site "Three World Wars.com" operated by Michael Haupt of Cambridge UK. Readers who object that the terms Nazism and Zionism were not known in 1871 should remember that the Illuminati invented both these movements. The Illuminati refers to a tightly organized network of family dynasties representing Anglo American and European aristocracy and Jewish finance joined by intermarriage, belief in the occult, and hatred of Christianity. Freemasonry is their instrument. They care nothing for their non-Illuminati brethren, Jewish or not. They will destroy billions as they create a neo feudal world characterized by the superrich, their support staff, soldiers and serfs.
"TAKING SIDES" The Iraq war and a possible larger conflagration is a trap engineered by the Illuminati to destroy both the Moslem world and Israel, and possibly the U.S. Thus the real enemy is not Israel, America or Islam who are being manipulated. The real enemy is the Illuminati and their agents, bent on destroying and enslaving mankind. For example, World War Two was choreographed. Roosevelt, Stalin, Churchill and Hitler were all Illuminati. They were actually all on the same side. Humanity ignorantly slaughtering itself for no reason was on the other side. As Pike's letter indicates, the Nazis were intended to lose and the Communists to gain control of Eastern Europe. This is why the Nazis made so many stupid blunders on the Eastern Front and deliberately alienated the anti-Communist Russian people. It explains why they didn't invade prostrate England or make the critical oil fields of Russia and the Middle East their first priority. Similarly today, George Bush, John Kerry, Tony Blair, Ariel Sharon, Gerhard Schroeder are all Freemasons. Bush and Kerry belong to the same "Skull and Bones" chapter! I am guessing but I expect Vladimir Putin and some significant Iranian leaders are also tied to the Illuminati. They may not be aware of the big picture but if they deviate, they will be assassinated like the Israeli PM, Yitzhak Rabin, who was also a Freemason. Sadaam Hussein is believed to be a high-ranking Freemason with longstanding business ties to George H.W. Bush and the CIA. This would explain why George H.W. Bush didn't remove him in 1991; and why reports suggest he was secretly airlifted out of the country in the first days of the 2003 war. The current Iraq war was planned years in advance to discredit the U.S., mire it in a Vietnam-style war and set it and Israel up for confrontation with a nuclear-armed Iran, backed by Russia and possibly China. Osama Bin Laden is probably also Illuminati. The whole Iranian Islamic Republic was put in place by the Illuminati. See Peter Goodgame's comprehensive report: "The Globalists and the Islamists." Thus while the majority of people on both sides believe in their cause, and fight and die for it, history suggests war is always a hoax aimed at slaughtering the "innocents" and establishing the power of the Illuminati in a one-world government.
"Out of these troubled times, our objective: a new world order can emerge," President George H. W. Bush told the U.N. on September 11th 1990. "Today, that new world is struggling to be born, a world quite different from the one we have known." "If the people were to ever find out what we have done," the same Bush told reporter Sarah McClendon in 1992, "we would be chased down the streets and lynched."
We cannot understand the world until we appreciate that most leaders are traitors and that mankind is victim of a diabolical conspiracy on an unspeakable scale. It's time we stopped fighting each other and addressed the real enemy.
Are World Wars Orchestrated? May 14, 2005 Muslims are rioting in Afghanistan today because US interrogators at Guantanamo Bay flushed copies of the Koran down the toilet. How do the rioters know this? It was reported in Newsweek, a publication owned by the family of Eugene Meyer, a past Director of the War Finance Board (WW1), Governor of the Federal Reserve and President of the World Bank. His Washington Post company has had a long relationship with the CIA. Nothing appears in the mass media without an ulterior purpose. The Illuminati is promoting a clash of "civilizations" between Islam and the US. In the present run-up to World War Three, it is worth asking if this sinister cabal also orchestrated World War Two, which saw the genocide of 70 million human beings. A detail in Prince Michel Sturdza's aptly titled The Suicide of Europe (1968) set off my alarm bells. Sturdza was Romanian Foreign Minister from Sept.-Dec. 1940. He was a leader in the pro-Nazi, anti-Communist, nationalist Christian "Legionary" movement. The Nazis, who like their Communist counterparts were NWO, were opposed to all nationalist movements. They soon overthrew the Legionaries and put these patriots in concentration camps. Before assuming his post in 1940, Sturdza was visiting Berlin. No one wanted to speak to him with the exception of Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, the wily chief of the Abwehr, German Army Intelligence. Canaris had a request that both surprised and shocked Sturdza. He asked him to cooperate with Canaris' counterpart in Bucharest, a certain Moruzov who Sturdza suspected was a Communist agent. Pressed on this, Canaris said Moruzov was providing the "best information concerning Soviet Russia's military preparations." Before leaving Berlin, Sturdza received a visit from Canaris' deputy, a Captain Muller,
"bearer once more of his chief's insistences, which left my wife and me perplexed." "Captain Muller informed us that Great Britain had never been and would never be defeated."
He added:
"What I am about to tell you, coming from a Prussian officer, might perhaps be considered as an act of high treason. Pay attention however. Don't under any circumstances take the responsibility as Minister of Foreign Affairs in your country, of pushing it into a war where you have Great Britain as an adversary. You will be crushed. Great Britain is always victorious."
"What I am about to tell you, coming from a Prussian officer, might perhaps be considered as an act of high treason. Pay attention however. Don't under any circumstances take the responsibility as Minister of Foreign Affairs in your country, of pushing it into a war where you have Great Britain as an adversary.
You will be crushed. Great Britain is always victorious."
This was a peculiar thing for a German Army Intelligence official to say especially since Germany appeared invincible in August 1940. It had just conquered France in June and sent the British packing . Sturdza thought he was being tested and was non-committal.
"I had not the faintest idea that I had been in contact with the greatest spy ring and traitors known to the military history of any country." (Page 162)
Indeed Canaris, who may have been of Greek-Jewish origin, sabotaged the Nazi war effort. Sturdza believes his spy ring was the main cause of the Nazi defeat. After a failed attempt to assassinate Hitler, its members were brutally murdered by the Gestapo. Naturally, they are portrayed as courageous heroes: principled humanists who resisted fascist tyranny. I respect this and hope it is the case. Yet, the statement, "You will be crushed. Great Britain is always victorious," suggests a different agenda, a larger design. The headquarters of the Communist-Capitalist International is in the City of London. The Bank of England financed the Nazi war machine just as they financed the Bolshevik revolution. The bankers orchestrated World War Two to destroy the great nation states of Europe and wipe out the cream of the new generation. For example, the Soviets slaughtered 15,000 Polish officers in the Katyn forest even though the Poles could have helped resist the Nazis onslaught. Was Canaris Illuminati or an illuminati dupe? Apparently he wanted to overthrow Hitler and end the war early, but the Allies insisted on "unconditional surrender," i.e. maximum slaughter. No nationalist forces were to remain. The German army had no choice but fight to the end. I don't see the Second World War as "the good war." It was fabricated to concentrate wealth and power, and to degrade and demoralize humanity. Both sides were guilty of unspeakable atrocities. The two great wars, and the upcoming third are designed to bring about Illuminati one-world dictatorship and mind control. Mankind is in the grip of a multigenerational diabolical conspiracy, and is too mesmerized by sex and money to realize it.
Real "Star Wars" Makes the Movie Seem Tame May 28, 2005 The new "Star Wars" movie is fantasy. The true story could be much stranger and a lot more exciting. Stephen Greer MD, 49, head of "The Disclosure Project" is the hero of the non-fiction version. He is an ER physician who gave up medicine to lift the massive cover-up of UFOs.
His egghead appearance is deceptive. He is 6 ft. 1, lean, charismatic and bench-presses 140 pounds with one arm. The Forces of Evil are the London-based central bankers. Like the fallen angel Lucifer (their idol) they have rebelled against the Creator's design and are determined to enslave mankind. They hold us prisoner mentally, spiritually, materially and technologically and plan a culling through war and virus. According to Greer, the explosion of Atom bombs in 1945 caught the attention of advanced alien civilizations who feared we could become a menace. They have since made thousands of visits to earth, many focused on disarming atomic weapons. For example, Roswell New Mexico, where two UFO's were shot down and five alien corpses recovered in 1947, was the home of the only US nuclear weapons squadron at the time. There have been about two-dozen cases where spacecraft have been recovered including a few where aliens have been captured dead or alive. The bankers have suppressed this information and even kept Presidents and CIA Directors out of the loop. Both Carter and Clinton were threatened with assassination if they insisted on releasing this information. Dr. Greer has been offered bribes and threatened. In 1997, he and two close associates all came down with a mysterious strain of cancer at the same time. The two associates died. The bankers use Intelligence Agencies and Defense Corporations to control UFO information and pursue secret "black budget" research. The aliens have a "free energy" technology, which would make fossil fuels obsolete. The bankers have copied and suppressed it because they also control the oil cartel. This pollution-free technology would make a Third World War fought over dwindling energy reserves unnecessary. Finally, the "aliens" represent a level of spiritual evolution that would release humanity from its current arrested development. I realize this all sounds pretty far-fetched. Before you dismiss it, go to the Disclosure Project website and look at National Press Club News Conference. Order the four-hour video in which dozens of retired officials of the US military industrial and intelligence establishment, including astronaut Gordon Cooper, confirm that this bizarre scenario is indeed true. Apparently "aliens" will be the next bogeyman used to justify massive expenditures for space weaponry. When the "terrorist" threat runs its course, the bankers intend to fake an alien attack to force humanity to adopt their one-world dictatorship. They already have "alien reproduction vehicles" and alien clones for the purpose of this hoax. Seen the movie "Independence Day"? We're going to "kick alien butt" in spite of the fact that in more than fifty years, the aliens have evinced no hostile intent, but rather benign concern. The Luciferian bankers will use the space weaponry to ward off alien attempts to liberate plantation earth and maybe even export their special brand of Satanism, taking Lucifer's rebellion to the next level. Before I continue, let me remind you that most of our cherished beliefs have been spoon-fed to us by the banker-controlled media and educational systems. We have been given mental paradigms that act as filters and we cannot process this information. You don't have to accept or reject it. You can reserve judgment.
GREER UP-CLOSE I attended a four-hour workshop with Stephen Greer in Toronto May 21. He strikes me as a sincere person who is risking his life and the security of his family (he is married with four children) to challenge the pernicious cabal that currently controls the world. I am troubled however by the storybook quality of some of his personal history. He claims his father was of Cherokee Indian descent and that his family was dysfunctional. His parents were "devout atheists," which makes me wonder if they might also have been Communists. He claims he toiled at odd jobs to support his sisters and put himself though college. Exhausted, he came down with an unusual disease that resulted in a near-death experience during which he communicated with spirit beings. Ever since he has had the ability to access cosmic consciousness and communicate with extraterrestrials. He claims there are physical sightings of UFOs after he has psychically "vectored" them in. He describes one species of extraterrestrial as about 38 inches tall, bronze skinned, no ears and exuding a spirit of "kindness." Before becoming an MD, Greer was one of (Transcendental Meditation) Yogi Maharishi Mahesh's star trainers. Greer continues to offer instruction in achieving cosmic consciousness as part his Disclosure Project program. I am also troubled by Greer's apparent naivety in approaching members of what he calls the "Kleptocracy" for support in developing zero-point (free) energy. He claims Laurence Rockefeller wanted to endow the project but his family was "jumping on his balls."
"How can you be so naive?" I challenged Greer. "Rockefeller is Standard Oil."
But Greer maintains that individual members of the Kleptocracy are troubled by the direction of human affairs and may be willing to help. He says 40% of the "control group" is in favor of making the UFO phenomena public. He says people want to know about UFO's but few are willing to help him. "The trouble with nice people is that they are 'nice.' We need people who are willing to take risks. We need spirit warriors." CONCLUSION Could the "Disclosure Project" be disinformation? I suppose, but I don't know what purpose it would serve. Whatever we may think about Stephen Greer, the testimony he has collected from dozens of retired officials strikes me as authentic and convincing. Take a look at the video and make up your own mind. In my view, the only way we will get the Kleptocracy to convert the world to zero-point energy is to give them ownership over it, and make it worth as much to them as fossil fuels. At least it will be pollution free. Greer concluded the workshop on a hopeful note. He said we now have a limitless free source of pollution-less energy that will usher in a new age of peace and prosperity for humanity.
"One world is dying while another is struggling to be born," he said. " We are ushering in a 500,000 year era of peace. Keep your eye on the far horizon."
War on Terror is Elite Mind Control April 21, 2006 It is more effective to manage society by mind control than by physical coercion. The events of 9-11 and the "war on terror" mostly are exercises in mass brainwashing. German psychiatrist Kurt Lewin, who became director of the elite-sponsored Tavistock Institute in 1932, developed the thinking behind 9-11.
In the book "Mind Control World Control" (1997) Jim Keith writes:
"Lewin is credited with much of the original Tavistock research into mass brainwashing applying the results of repeated trauma and torture [of individuals] in mind control to society at large." "If terror can be induced on a widespread basis into a society, Lewin has stated, then society reverts to a tabula rasa, a blank slate, a situation where control can easily be instituted from an external point." "Put another way: By the creation of controlled chaos, the populace can be brought to the point where it willingly submits to greater control. Lewin maintained that society must be driven into a state equivalent to an 'early childhood situation.' He termed this societal chaos 'fluidity.'" (Page 44)
"Lewin is credited with much of the original Tavistock research into mass brainwashing applying the results of repeated trauma and torture [of individuals] in mind control to society at large." "If terror can be induced on a widespread basis into a society, Lewin has stated, then society reverts to a tabula rasa, a blank slate, a situation where control can easily be instituted from an external point." "Put another way: By the creation of controlled chaos, the populace can be brought to the point where it willingly submits to greater control. Lewin maintained that society must be driven into a state equivalent to an 'early childhood situation.' He termed this societal chaos 'fluidity.'"
(Page 44)
Elite planners designed Sept. 11 for its shock value. In the aftermath, they were able to impose a security crackdown, a costly military build-up and a war in Afghanistan and Iraq on a stunned population. Keith cites another Tavistock researcher Dr. William Sargent author of "Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversion and Brain-Washing" (1957):
"Various types of beliefs can be implanted after brain function has been sufficiently disturbed by ...deliberately induced fear, anger or excitement." (48)
This blueprint was laid out long before Sept. 11, 2001. The official story of that tragedy doesn't bear scrutiny. There was no wreckage at the Pentagon. All three buildings were demolished by explosives. Our "leaders" are accomplices to the murder of over 3000 Americans and the destruction of an American icon. The plan is to fold the US into a "world government" controlled by London-based central bankers. Our cultural, economic and political elite is complicit in the ongoing cover up.
FUTURE SHOCK Most political and cultural events are contrived by the elite for their psychological effect. JFK could have been disposed of in more humane ways. (He had many health problems.)
Instead, for its shock value, they shot him down , in Mort Sahls' words, "like a dog in the street." Jim Keith:
"The Kennedy assassination was a British Intelligence, i.e. Tavistock hit, and its purpose was to shock the American consciousness into a near-comatose state for reprogramming, the standard Tavistock modus operandi." (p.143)
The same can be said for the assassinations of Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy. It all climaxed with the beatings of demonstrators at the 1968 Chicago Democratic convention. After that, my generation turned inward as we were programmed to do.
"Turn on, Tune in, Drop Out" said CIA funded pied piper Timothy Leary. ["I mean who was I supposed to work for, the KGB?" Leary quipped. (Keith p.99) Leary didnt realize that there wasn't a big difference.]
Many young people became "dead heads" after Jerry Garcia's Grateful Dead. Keith writes:
"An FBI internal memo from 1968 mentions the employment of the Grateful Dead as an avenue 'to channel youth dissent and rebellion into more benign and non-threatening directions.' [They] performed a vital service in distracting many young persons into drugs and mysticism, rather than politics." (179)
Keith goes on to document CIA connections to the creation of mind control cults used to create "controlled chaos." These include the Symbionese Liberation Army, Jim Jones, Charles Manson, Scientology, the Unification Church, Son of Sam and Heaven's Gate. The John Lennon assassination also ties in. (183) To bring the picture up to date, add the murder of Princess Diana, Columbine, the blowing of the levees in New Orleans, the burning of Black churches, and the bird flu scare. What we have is an ongoing secret war by the central bankers against society, a drumbeat of psychological torture designed to keep society off balance or zoned out.
THE BITTER TRUTH The most significant thing about our life is that we are victims of elite mind control.
We have been trained to be apathetic, trivia-minded and self absorbed. Apart from the political shocks, we are hardly aware of the vicious attack on our natural heterosexuality by a psy-op known as "feminism" masquerading as women's rights. We get our values, identity, meaning and love from our family roles. Women were brainwashed to abandon the female role and compete for the male role. A woman who dedicated herself to husband, home and children was stigmatized. This is part of the long-term elite program to eliminate the institutions of marriage and family. According to this web site,
"Tavistock Institute has developed such power in the USA, that no one achieves prominence in any field unless he has been trained in behavioral science at Tavistock, or one of its subsidiaries."
Read how Tavistock directs hundreds of elite think tanks and corporations in the United States. The degree of elite coordination is breath taking. For example, Century 21 has a new ad where a real estate agent is greeting a middle class Chinese couple arriving to settle in America. The voice-over says something like:
"This is the shape of the future. We are agents of change."
Obviously this ad will not appeal to Americans looking for a realtor. Rather, it conditions them to embrace immigration. Central banker dupes and lackeys have used the term "change agents" to describe themselves for decades. Mankind is in the grip of a satanic force and is sinking into a coma. Our "leaders" work for an occult cabal of super rich perverts and criminals who secretly plot the end of Western Civilization and world tyranny. They see us as animals to be trained or culled. The good news is that the animals "owe" them a lot of money for their fiat currency. So if we can tune out their madness, we can relax. The chaos is controlled. Wars are all orchestrated and they love money too much to destroy us, at least not yet.
The "Ugly" Cause of World War Two April 28, 2006 Josslyn Victor Hay, 22nd Earl of Erroll, a prominent British colonial politician, knew the real cause of the Second World War and had the stature to be heard. Winston Churchill ordered the Secret Service (Special Operations Executive) to kill him. What "ugly" secret would make the British government kill a British citizen and pass it off as an unsolved murder? Significantly the conspirators chose the codename "Operation Highland Clearance" for Erroll's murder. The brutal eviction of Scottish tenants from their farms in the early 1800's is a fitting symbol for the dispossession of the human race by the New World Order, which the Second World War did so much to advance.
The popular version of the murder is depicted in the 1987 movie "White Mischief" starring Charles Dance as Lord Erroll and Greta Scacchi as Diana Broughton. Erroll's body was found in the early morning Jan. 24, 1941 kneeling in the front passenger foot well of his car with a bullet wound behind the ear, murdered execution style. Erroll, a widower was having an affair with a married woman Diana Broughton and had dropped her at her home nearby after midnight.
Suspicion was cast on Diana's much older husband Sir Henry Broughton, who was tried but acquitted. The murder, which took place in Nairobi Kenya, was portrayed in terms of the decadence of white settlers far from the London Blitz. The murder would have remained unsolved but for a retired SOE insider who, informed of a terminal disease, gave the information to a colleague Tony Trafford who composed a 100-page memo. Trafford, since deceased, gave it to an author, coincidentally named Errol Trzebinski who was writing "The Life and Death of Lord Erroll: The Truth Behind the Happy Valley Murder" (2000). At 6 foot 2" with chiselled Nordic looks, Lord Erroll was a natural leader, heir to an ancient Scottish lineage, organized and intelligent, an excellent speaker with a photographic memory. A member of the Kenyan colonial legislature, he held the post of Military Secretary with important military and intelligence duties. "Operation Highland Clearance" involved more than 100 people. In the early stages of the war, why did the Churchill government have to silence this man forever?
THE GREAT RUSE Essentially Hitler was not interested in a world war. His design was to conquer the USSR in a loose "Nordic" alliance with England. Erroll belonged to the "Cliveden Set" a powerful section of the British elite that supported this alliance. Churchill's backers, the privately owned Bank of England funded Hitler as a means to intimidate Stalin, destroy Germany and have a world war. War enables them to concentrate power and wealth in their hands and slaughter national elites who might interfere with their plan for world dictatorship. They used the Cliveden types to fool Hitler into thinking England approved of his plans. Like proud proteges, the Nazis entertained the English and gave them information on their military build-up. The Nazis were set up. This is the real meaning of the "Policy of Appeasement." When Hitler realized he had been double-crossed, he may have taken his revenge on the Jews. The Cliveden Set divided into two groups, those who were aware of the trap, and those who were not. Erroll was one of latter who sincerely believed Hitler represented a bulwark to Communism. When the war broke out, Erroll did his patriotic duty. But he knew too much. He was aware of how the Crown bankers had used Hitler and he spoke of it within range of MI-5 assets. Errol's father, Victor Hay, was the British High Commissioner in the Rhineland. At age 20, Errol was the private secretary to the British Ambassador in Berlin. He spoke German and French fluently, knew the Prince of Wales, and was part of the European aristocracy. His diplomatic career hit the rocks in 1924 when he married a twice-divorced woman eight years his senior. He followed her to Kenya where she had a large estate won in a divorce settlement. They had a daughter. Erroll visited England and kept in touch. He joined Oswald Mosley's Fascist party but later quit. He was a close friend with the Duke of Hamilton who was a linch pin in the Bank of England's plan. In May 1941, three months after Errol's death, Rudolf Hess, the Deputy Fuhrer, flew to Scotland to present Hamilton with a generous peace proposal. Both men were homosexuals. Hess was Hitler's homosexual lover in the Landsberg Prison and helped him compose "Mein Kampf." Hamilton may have had an affair with Albrecht Haushofer, the son of Hess' mentor Karl Haushofer, who originated the concept of lebensraum. Haushofer was part of the German Resistance who hoped to shunt Hitler aside and make peace with England. (See "The Pink Swastika" by Kevin Abrams & Scott Lively, Chapter "Homo-Occultism") It is possible that Hitler was created by a largely homosexual occult secret society that spanned both British and Nazi elites. This was called the Thule Society in Germany and the Order of the Golden Dawn in England. Winston Churchill, a Druid, was part of this occult scene. (He was also a friend of Edward VIII, considered a Nazi sympathizer.) But the Nazis branch was not aware of the hidden English agenda. Erroll was silenced because he was an opponent of Communism, and could discredit Churchill and the British war effort. (See Churchill's homosexual connection.)
THE MURDER On Sept 7, 1940, a group of highly placed persons including Douglas Douglas-Hamilton, the Fourteenth Duke of Hamilton, met in Scotland and decided to terminate Jocelyn Hay, Lord Erroll. The matter was handed to the SOE on Sept. 12 to be handled by their Cairo station. Jock and Diana Broughton were MI-5 assets who entered Kenya in Nov. 1940 to discover Erroll's intentions and to involve him in a love triangle that would obscure the real purpose of his murder. In December another agent-couple entered Kenya and on the night of the murder, pretended to have engine trouble, and requested a ride back to town for the female who shot Errol. There were radio-controlled teams following Erroll. Trezebinski's retired SOE contacts try to put a slightly different spin on events suggesting Erroll was murdered because "ex-appeasers " in the establishment including "the Duke of Hamilton, senior figures in Chamberlain's last cabinet, close friends of Edward VIII and Edward himself" would be embarrassed by what Erroll knew. (p.280) An insider told her Rudolf Hess, Lord Moyne and Erroll shared knowledge of some "ugly" secret. Jewish terrorists ostensibly murdered Lord Moyne in 1944. Other Cliveden members who died mysterious and premature deaths were Lord Lothian (1940), Lord Rothermere (1940), Sir Harry Oakes (1943) and the former Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain who died of "cancer" in Nov. 1940 six months after leaving office. Hamilton conveniently died in action in 1944. Churchill jailed hundreds of others. According to the insider, the "ugly secret" is "not that Churchill had discovered the conspiracy [to make peace with Germany] and had been enraged but that he had been part of it" i.e. he had played Hitler. The other spin is that Churchill had been sincere about an alliance and was worried about exposure. (p.296) He would have had to make peace with Hitler if the bankers had not inveigled the US to intervene. Related, my "Bankers Engineered US WWII Intervention"
CONCLUSION The ultimate ugly secret is that the USSR was a creation of British Freemasonry, financed by the Bank of England. They lost control of Stalin and created Hitler to menace him. But Stalin would have had to do something terrible for the British to have joined Hitler. Russian Communism was one half of their NWO Hegelian dialectic. We see it today in the form of arbitrary state power, repression and indoctrination. You can bet that whenever a country is being ostracized as a pariah state, its real crime is asserting its independence from the NWO. It's no coincidence that the "axis of evil," Iraq, Iran and North Korea do/did not have Rothschild-run central banks. As Erroll's fate makes clear, intelligence agencies work for the central bankers, not for the countries they pretend to serve. They are used to eliminate any genuine threat to the banker's monopoly over credit and power. I want to make clear that I have no sympathy for Hitler who wanted to subjugate Russia and enslave its people. The real point of this article is that the central bankers have empowered a bizarre cabal of gangsters, perverts and misfits to create wars and mayhem. For example, chaos relieved Winston Churchill's chronic depression. At the beginning of World War One, he confessed: "Everything is tending to catastrophe and collapse. I am interested, geared up, and happy. Is it not horrible to be built like this?" These monsters are our leaders. Subverted by a Luciferian cult, Western society has little moral authority. Our moral bankruptcy is masked by material prosperity but this will not last. Thus, they are erecting a police state while the intelligentsia and masses can still be bought.
Bankers Bash Bush, Pump Global War July 21, 2006 [Note: I now believe I was mislead by Neo Con attacks on Bush, and believe he was/is on board with the attack-Iran plan. ] Israel's demented assault on Lebanon might be explained in terms of the frustration of London-based Illuminati bankers with America's failure to attack Iran. They hope the war in Lebanon will spread to Syria and Iran, eventually sucking China and the U.S. into World War Three. Banker toadies are not shy about this goal. On CNN, Glenn Beck declared Wednesday, "World War Three has begun" and wondered when we would have the "Duke Ferdinand moment."
He is referring to the assassination of Arch Duke Ferdinand, a false flag operation that started World War One. According to The Red Symphony, Leon Trotsky, a Rothschild agent, masterminded it. Newt Gingrich echoed Beck's insane rhetoric. He said recent events,
"could be accurately described as a third world war... The ideological wing of Islam is irreconcilable to modern civilization... The free world must stand up to the barbarism or be defeated by it... In this crisis of civilization... it is possible to win a first decisive victory."
"could be accurately described as a third world war... The ideological wing of Islam is irreconcilable to modern civilization...
The free world must stand up to the barbarism or be defeated by it... In this crisis of civilization... it is possible to win a first decisive victory."
Through their agents, the bankers are pushing for a "war of civilizations" between Christianity and Islam, and ultimately between China, which stands behind Iran (via North Korea) and the USA which backs Israel. The ultimate goal is a depopulated planet with a world government dictatorship. The Illuminati bankers need to turn their monopoly over the credit of the world's greatest nations into a political and social monopoly such as (their previous drafts) Communism and Fascism. (Significantly, the central banks of North Korea and Iran are among the handful they dont control.) War is the principal means by which the banking cartel degrades and enslaves humanity. Specifically, the bankers want to destroy our sources of identity and power, i.e. nation, race, religion and family. They used the same dog-eared playbook to start World Wars One and Two so let's recall their strategy. The bankers cannot destroy us themselves; they need their enemies to destroy each other. They have been doing this for centuries. Albert Pike, the Supreme Commander of American Freemasonry, predicted the Third World War "between political Zionism and Islam" more than 100 years ago.
He said their agents on each side will drag their countries into the abyss.
"The war must be conducted in such a way that Islam and political Zionism mutually destroy each other," Pike wrote in 1871.
IMPEDIMENTS TO WORLD WAR The problem is that elements in the US government and military are beginning to recognize the Illuminati plan. They sense the agenda is for the US to be brought down a few pegs. Apparently North Korea intended the recent missile tests as a warning. They have missiles capable of reaching Japan and possibly the US West Coast. Today we learned that Iranian observers were present at these tests. Iran sells North Korea billions in oil. Guess how North Korea, an impoverished country, has paid. Iran probably already has nuclear weapons and the missiles to deliver them. How else could it promise to inflict grievous damage if it or Syria is attacked? Faced with this threat, George W. Bush and Condie Rice are acting with restraint. Believe me, I am no fan of theirs. But we should be suspicious of the changed tone and frequency of criticism of the President in the central banker-controlled mass media. The conservative foreign policy establishment is "beside itself with fury at the administration," according to an article in The Washington Post Wednesday. The "final straw" was the U.S. decision to offer direct talks and potential benefits to Iran as an inducement to curb its nuclear program. Bill Kristol and colleagues have taken credit for starting the Iraq War but complain of a failure to move aggressively enough. On FOX Tuesday Kristol (pictured above) said, "we have to be ready to use military force against Iran." But the president has his backers among some politicians and pundits. According to The Washington Post:
"GOP lawmakers, meanwhile, appear to be lining up closely with the president on foreign policy. It has not helped the neo conservative case, perhaps, that the occupation of Iraq has not gone as smoothly as some had predicted."
Some prominent conservatives, including William F. Buckley Jr. and George Will, have been skeptical of the mission in Iraq and, in Will's case, much of the ability of America to build democracy abroad. In his syndicated column yesterday, Will referred to the neo conservative complaints in observing that the administration is "suddenly receiving some criticism so untethered from reality as to defy caricature." However, with the support Bush and Rice are giving the Israeli aggression there is no assurance they are not becoming "untethered from reality."
ISRAEL Israelis would do well to consider that Iran already has nuclear weapons. (Possibly they know this and the issue is just an excuse for war.) Some observers believe the Illuminati plan is to sacrifice Haifa and Tel Aviv to their Satanic god in a second "holocaust." The Illuminati created Israel and feel it is theirs to destroy. It doesnt help that Israel has squandered its moral capital on this outrage, and Israeli children are photographed writing greetings to Lebanese children on bombs. The truth is that anyone who supports this carnage has no moral protection from receiving the same treatment. Don't underestimate this. We are dealing with occultists who want to degrade us to the level where our slaughter can be justified to God. This is a public relations disaster for Israel and its supporters. A tsunami of worldwide anger will hit Israel, overcoming the media stranglehold and all other inhibitions. The Israelis will say it's because they are Jewish. That's 90% of "anti-Semitism" in a nutshell: the refusal of many Jews to see what they are doing to arouse antipathy. According to the BBC, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said that the two Israeli soldiers "were captured to pressure Israel to release the thousands of Palestinian prisoners in its jails," especially women and children. The destruction of a country because of the capture of two prisoners by a citizen militia is indefensible. To call them "abductions" is laughable. POW exchanges have been going on for centuries. Of course the real reason for this excess is to create an atmosphere of turmoil, despair and panic that will trigger a series of events, a "Duke Ferdinand moment" leading to a regional or global conflagration. Israelis had better realize they are entering a quagmire. They are pawns in a deadly game, and pawns get sacrificed. Jews appear to have learned nothing from World War Two.
CONCLUSION The US is like the turkey reading the Thanksgiving menu and exclaiming, "wait a minute." Let's support George Bush and Condoleezza Rice in their refusal to attack Iran, and vent our anger and contempt on the Glenn Becks, William Kristols and Newt Gingrich's of the world who want to shove us into the nuclear oven. They are scoundrels, impostors and traitors. These days I am having deja vu. I am experiencing what it must have been like before the first two world wars when the same shady cast of characters was frog-marching Americans into costly and gratuitous infernos. We cannot be complacent. They have never yet failed to manipulate us. Are we too naive to recognize that modern history is nothing but the process by which the Illuminati transfer total power from the feudal aristocracy to themselves, using liberal democracy as a transitional step and facade? Incredible and bizarre as this sounds, will humanity recognize before it is too late, it is in the grip of a well organized long-term Satanic conspiracy?
Preview of World War Three September 01, 2006 In coming days and weeks, sock-puppets like George Bush will jawbone about stopping Iran's "nuclear enrichment program." If you understand the big picture you can tune all that out. If it weren't nuclear enrichment, he'd find some another excuse to menace Iran. Here's why: The London-based Illuminati central bankers want to complete their Masonic world dictatorship by extending their power over Russia and China. (The Illuminati is an occult society that controls Freemasonry, the largest secret society in the world. That's their emblem on the US dollar.) In "The Grand Chessboard" (1997) Carter National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski said control of the Middle East and Central Asia, including Afghanistan and the Caspian oil fields was a prerequisite to controlling Russia and China. To justify the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq, the Illuminati engineered Sept. 11 (Yes, the Bush Administration, Federal Reserve, CFR, CIA MI-6 and Mossad were behind it.)
As Brzezinski wrote:
"the pursuit of power is not a goal that commands popular passion, except in conditions of a sudden threat or challenge to the public's sense of domestic well-being. The economic self-denial (that is, defense spending) and the human sacrifice (casualties, even among professional soldiers) required in the effort are uncongenial to democratic instincts. Democracy is inimical to imperial mobilization." (p.35) (See Michael Ruppert, "A War in the Planning for Four Years: How Stupid do they Think We Are?")
"the pursuit of power is not a goal that commands popular passion, except in conditions of a sudden threat or challenge to the public's sense of domestic well-being.
The economic self-denial (that is, defense spending) and the human sacrifice (casualties, even among professional soldiers) required in the effort are uncongenial to democratic instincts. Democracy is inimical to imperial mobilization." (p.35) (See Michael Ruppert, "A War in the Planning for Four Years: How Stupid do they Think We Are?")
In 2001, Russia and China together with four Central Asian states set up the "Shanghai Cooperation Organization" to expel the US from the region. Iran, Pakistan and India were granted observer status. Iran was regarded as the linchpin to the whole region. In other words, under no circumstances will Russia and China let Iran be defeated. The same applies to the Taliban in Afghanistan. World War Three will pit West against East, NATO against the SCO. Why is it fine if Pakistan has nuclear weapons but not Iran? Ostensibly, Pakistan is an Illuminati puppet-state. In other words, only Illuminati-run states are allowed nuclear weapons. However Pakistan is drawing closer to China and is assisting the Taliban. Why doesn't Bush go after North Korea's nuclear arsenal? It's under Chinese protection, has no oil and isn't the linchpin of Central Asia. So when Glenn Beck intones on CNN that Iran "is out to destroy our way of life" recognize a cheap whore soliciting your fathers and sons for NWO cannon fodder. And when Israelis squeal about being under attack, give them a slap on the head. They are the aggressors and high tech terrorists. Their gratuitous destruction of Lebanon had nothing to do with a threat because there was none. It was intended as an object lesson for Iran. However the Israelis were taught the lesson. If only they would learn it. I'll spell it out. Iran already has nuclear weapons and the backing of Russia and China. If Iran is attacked, Israel will be destroyed. Better for Israel to make peace with its neighbors and make restitution for its crimes against Lebanon and the Palestinians. Iran President Ahmadinejad said recently Iran's neighbors, including Israel, have nothing to fear from Iran. The same cannot be said for Israel. Unfortunately we are on Illuminati conveyor belt, moving inexorably toward annihilation and acting as if it were a hayride. What is the timeline? There are still alot of preparations (money) to be made. I am guessing about five years. Until then, the proxy wars will continue. Our political "leaders" are Satanists, criminals and traitors. Our religious and cultural leaders mostly are cowards and/or degenerates. The mass media engages in lies and mind control. We must stop colluding in our own moral degradation, enslavement and ultimate destruction. We must reject war.
The "Matrix" of Manufactured War January 19, 2007
Recently a feud between Donald Trump and Rosie O'Donnell gave their ratings a boost.
Mel Gibson and Michael Richards also made gratuitous attacks that helped their bottom line.
What if the world's great conflicts were just as phoney? What if Bush and Chavez; Blair and Putin; Olmert and Ahmadinejad were all part of a giant Punch and Judy Show? What if we were riding the roller coaster, cheering and groaning, and biting our fingernails for nothing? What if it were all staged like professional wrestling (only thousands of innocent people were dying?)
What if the world's great conflicts were just as phoney?
What if Bush and Chavez; Blair and Putin; Olmert and Ahmadinejad were all part of a giant Punch and Judy Show?
What if we were riding the roller coaster, cheering and groaning, and biting our fingernails for nothing?
What if it were all staged like professional wrestling (only thousands of innocent people were dying?)
Many of us consider Ahmadinejad, Putin and Chavez the "good guys" in the fight against the New World Order. It's possible they are controlled by the Illuminati as well. Our hidden masters control everything else. Would they leave war to chance? I can't prove this grand hypothesis today. However, there is some anecdotal evidence. First, take past wars. None of them were anything like inevitable. I have shown how World War One was made possible by British food subsidies to the Germans, and ended when this trade stopped. World War Two, which Churchill called the most "unnecessary war in history" was also engineered through loans to the Nazis and the policy of "Appeasement." The Masonic bankers also engineered US entry into WW II. The war supposedly was fought for the independence of Poland yet at the end, Eastern Europe was under the heel of the Russians, the 1939-1941 allies of the Nazis. Instead of Nazis, Polish nationalists were massacred by Soviets. An improvement? Sounds to me like war for its own sake, or for Communism. Our War on Terror is the natural successor of the "Cold War"; both as phony as three-dollar bills. The war on Iraq? Lebanon? Afghanistan? Iran? Do any of them make any sense? These wars are unwinnable. How do you win a guerilla war without annihilating everyone? They are not meant to be won. Remember Albert Pike's letter? The Zionists and Islam will be used to destroy each other. As Dick Cheney intimated, the Iraq War will last 40 years i.e. as long as the Cold War. Both sides are subsidized and controlled by the world's central bankers and their secret societies/intelligence agencies. War is an end in itself. It concentrates money and power in the hands of our Satan-loving elites. It provides human sacrifices to their bloodthirsty god and brutalizes and demoralizes humanity. It is a waste of energy to discuss the "political reasons" for these conflicts. They are a ruse.
OUR "MISLEADERS" (term coined by Jordan Maxwell) After debating for months whether the US was winning or losing in Iraq, someone decided it was losing. As the "decider," Bush stoutly accepted responsibility and even shed a tear at a soldier's funeral. That didn't prevent the demonizing of poor George. His opponents assailed his sanity, intelligence, virility and honor. What do they expect of an admitted satanist? George is not to blame. Every President in the Twentieth Century has been a hand puppet of the Rothschild-Rockefeller cartel of cartels. They wouldnt let George manage a gas station let alone the "Free World." Luckily, Bush just reads the teleprompter. Henry Kissinger, CEO of the visible NWO, issues the orders. Derision only gives Bush credibility heightening the illusion the US has a functioning democracy, mass media and justice system. Remember, the US government is ultimately responsible for the slaughter of 3000 Americans in broad daylight Sept. 11.
The US ruling class and punditry are complicit in the ongoing cover-up. The most obvious "controlled conflict" is the two party system.
CREATING CONFLICT Let's look at the "opponents" of globalization and the New World Order. Chavez, Putin and Ahmadinejad were all obscure figures handed power by a hidden hand. Like Bush, they certainly lack the stature of real "deciders."
Chavez and Ahmadinejad vilify Bush and the USA, but, like Chavez' mentor Noam Chomsky, cannot pronounce the words "Rothschild" or "central banker." Chavez's Bolivarian Revolution is Freemasonic in origin, as is his Communism. Someone claims he met Chavez at a meeting of the Grand Lodge of Texas in the 1990's. Chavez led a failed coup but got out of jail after only 2 years. Wikipedia reports that he later received campaign funds from large banks. The Financial Times noted sardonically last August, Bankers traditionally face firing squads in times of revolution. But in Venezuela, they are having a party.
Now Chavez and Ahmadinejad are busy establishing an Anti-American coalition in South America: More controlled conflict. But before that happens, we are looking at a war in Iran that will make Iraq look like a picnic.
Do we hear Putin warning the US and Israel against this idiocy by drawing a line in the sand?
CONTROLLING DEBATE I suspect that the bankers set up Nationalist and anti-Globalist spokesmen and groups in order to control both sides.
The tip off: are these people getting corporate/government support and coverage in the mass media? Probable Canadian examples are Naomi Klein, Maude Barlow and Mel Hurtig. On the other hand, you know Connie Fogal, leader of the Canadian Action Party is legit because she talks about the bankers and consequently gets no media. In the US, Aaron Russo is legit for the same reason. It's apparent that political action requires money. The bankers mint it. The rest of us are too busy making a living to be anything but bystanders and victims.
CONCLUSION These days you can't turn on the media without someone (usually Zionists like Charles Adler or Glenn Beck,) stirring up hostility against Iran and Muslims in general. They keep talking about how war-like Islam is when we are invading them! Any future conflict may destroy Israel, but these highly paid shills dont care. War for its own sake is the goal. War is considered "revolutionary" because it advances the Masonic bankers' goal of the New World Order. It "overturns" civilization by destroying nation, race, family and religion. Fabian Harold Laski even referred to the two great wars as "revolutions." To have a war, the bankers need to create and provision two sides. Thus all wars are waged against humanity by a small satanic criminal network that owns 50% of the world's wealth. The mainspring is the world's private central bankers. The Hindus have a term for the "Matrix." They say our lives are governed by "Maya" or "illusion." Who thought anyone would go to so much trouble to create it? Perhaps liberation lies in recognizing that conflicts are artificially created and controlled. Back to Contents
