# The Population Control Agenda

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_depopu08.htm

by Stanley K. Monteith, M.D.
from RadioLiberty.com Website
One of the most difficult concepts for Americans to accept is that there are human beings dedicated to coercive population control and genocide.
Many readers will acknowledge that our government is helping to finance the Red Chinese program of forced abortion, forced sterilization, infanticide, and control of the numbers of live births. Most readers will accept the fact that our nation is helping to finance the United Nations world-wide "family planning program," a form of population control.
Most rational men and women, however, find it impossible to believe that such programs are really part of a "master plan" to kill off large segments of the worlds population.
I shall have to admit that I studied the politics of AIDS (HIV disease) for over a decade before I finally came to a horrifying conclusion. The real motivation behind efforts to block utilization of standard public health measures to control further spread of the HIV epidemic was "population control."
That was not an easy concept for me to acknowledge, despite the fact that I had long recognized that the twentieth century has been the bloodiest hundred-year period in all recorded human history.
It was not until I journeyed to Elberton, Georgia, stood within the dark shadows of the great Druid-like monument built there, and read the words engraved on the massive stone pillars of that structure that I finally came to accept the truth.
At that point it became obvious that just as our lord has given mankind Ten Commandments to guide our lives, so, too, those from "the dark side" have been given their instructions from the "one" they worship.
The ten programs of the "guides" are inscribed in eight different languages on the four great granite pillars of the American Stonehenge. That message foretells a terrifying future for humanity, and explains why efforts to approach the AIDS epidemic from a logical point of view have been consistently thwarted.1
Before you scoff, and reject my suggestion as some sort of madness, check out my references, then try to disprove my conclusions. If my allegations are unfounded, you will soon recognize the deception and return to your daily activities, certain that there is no cause for concern.
On the other hand, should you determine that my assessment is correct, or even partially correct, then you have a moral obligation to decide just what part you intend to play in response to the unfolding world genocide - how you will protect yourself, your loved ones, and the countless millions of helpless human beings throughout the world who have been marked for destruction.
You must never forget the warning recorded for posterity by Martin Niemoeller, the Lutheran minister who lived in Hitlers Germany during the 1930s and 1940s.
His words echo down to us over succeeding decades:
"In Germany they came first for the Communists, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a Jew. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a trade unionist. Then they came for the Catholics, and I didnt speak up because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and by that time no one was left to speak up." 2
"In Germany they came first for the Communists, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a Communist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a Jew.
Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didnt speak up because I wasnt a trade unionist. Then they came for the Catholics, and I didnt speak up because I was a Protestant. Then they came for me, and by that time no one was left to speak up." 2
You will note that Reverend Niemoeller warned that after coming for the Jews the Nazis came for both Catholics and Protestants. Why is that fact never mentioned?
The question that I am most frequently asked is,
"How can you possibly believe that there are people who intend to kill off large segments of the worlds population?"
My answer is really quite simple.
I hold that belief because I have read their writings. I believe they are telling the truth. Just as Adolf Hitler wrote of his plans for Europe in "Mein Kampf" (My Plan), so, too, those who intend to depopulate large segments of the earth have written of the necessity of limiting the worlds population. They fully intend to "exterminate" a significant portion of the worlds population.
The fact that the vast majority of Americans have never heard of their intent, of The Georgia Guidestones in Elberton, or of "The Plan" and "The Hierarchy" attests to the degree of control that exists over what the American people have been allowed to know about the occultic forces which are working within our society today.
Margaret Sanger and Planned Parenthood
As you read on you will soon discover that I have primarily relied on material which can be readily found in books, audio-taped interviews, and public news sources.
If you take the time to check my references, you will soon discover that there really are those who have publicly advocated the elimination of "human weeds" and "the cleansing of society." Indeed, to this very day your tax money is used to finance Planned Parenthood, an organization founded by Margaret Sanger. During the 1930s Margaret Sanger openly supported the Nazi plan for genetic engineering of the German population, and the propagation of a "super race."
In Planned Parenthoods 1985 "Annual Report" leaders of that organization proclaimed that they were, "Proud of our past, and planning for our future." 3
How could anyone possibly claim to be proud of the organization founded by Margaret Sanger when history records that she wrote of the necessity of:
"the extermination of human weeds... the cessation of charity,... the segregation of morons, misfits, and the maladjusted, and... the sterilization of genetically inferior races." 4
Margaret Sanger published "The Birth Control Review."
In that magazine she openly supported the "infanticide program" promoted by Nazi Germany in the 1930s, and publicly championed Adolf Hitlers goal of Aryan white supremacy.
In the years prior to World War II Margaret Sanger commissioned Ernst Rudin, a member of the Nazi Party, and director of the dreaded German Medical Experimentation Programs, to serve as an advisor to her organization.
In his excellent book "Killer Angel," George Grant chronicles the life and writings of Margaret Sanger, and painstakingly documents Sangers plans for the genetic engineering of the human race.
George Grant noted that in the 1920s Margaret Sanger wrote "The Pivot of Civilization" in which she called for:
"The elimination of human weeds, for the cessation of charity because it prolonged the lives of the unfit, for the segregation of morons, misfits, and the maladjusted, and for the sterilization of genetically inferior races." 5
According to George Grant, Margaret Sanger believed that the unfit should not be allowed to reproduce. Accordingly, she opened a birth control clinic in:
"The Brownsville section of New York, an area populated by newly immigrated Slavs, Latins, Italians, and Jews. She targeted the unfit for her crusade to save the planet." 6
Nineteen years later, in 1939, Margaret Sanger organized her "Negro project," a program designed to eliminate members of what she believed to be an "inferior race."
Margaret Sanger justified her proposal because she believed that:
"The masses of Negroes ...particularly in the South, still breed carelessly and disastrously, with the result that the increase among Negroes, even more than among whites, is from that portion of the population least intelligent and fit..." 7
Margaret Sanger then went on to reveal that she intended to hire three or four Colored Ministers "to travel to various black enclaves to propagandize for birth control."
She wrote:
"The most successful educational approach to the Negro is through a religious appeal. We do not want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population, and the Minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members." (emphasis added-Ed.) 8
As Margaret Sangers organization grew in power, influence, and acceptance, she began to write of the necessity of targeting religious groups for destruction as well, believing that the "dysgenic races" should include "Fundamentalists and Catholics" in addition to "blacks, Hispanics, (and) American Indians." 9
As the years went by, Margaret Sanger became increasingly obsessed with her occultic beliefs. Along with her acceptance of the occult, she became increasingly hostile to both christianity and the American precepts of individual freedom under God.
Her distaste for America can be seen in her writings when she wrote:
"Birth control appeals to the advanced radical because it is calculated to undermine the authority of the christian churches. I look forward to seeing humanity free someday of the tyranny of christianity no less than Capitalism." 10
Margaret Sanger eventually embraced not only communism but theosophy as well.
What is theosophy? It is a covert, occultic religion based upon the repudiation of God and the worship of Lucifer. In modern-day America, theosophy is one of the most powerful hidden (occult) forces working behind the scenes in New York City, Washington D.C., and across our nation today. 11
How many times have you been told that Adolf Hitler killed 6 million Jews in the Holocaust? What you probably have never been told, however, is the segment of the Holocaust tragedy recorded by Professor Norman Cohn in his historical account of the Jewish Holocaust, "Warrant for Genocide."
Professor Cohn chronicled the dark days of World War II, noting:
"Only about a third of the civilians killed by the Nazis and their accomplices were Jews... Other peoples were marked out for decimation, subjugation, and enslavement, and the civilian losses of some of these (countries - Ed.) amounted to 11 per cent to 12 per cent of the total population." 12
"Only about a third of the civilians killed by the Nazis and their accomplices were Jews...
Other peoples were marked out for decimation, subjugation, and enslavement, and the civilian losses of some of these (countries - Ed.) amounted to 11 per cent to 12 per cent of the total population." 12
If Professor Cohns figures are accurate - and I feel certain that they are, because other Jewish researchers have come up with similar figures - then, why havent the christians of America been allowed to learn the fact that in addition to the 6 million Jews murdered by the Nazis, somewhere between 7 and 12 million non-Jews were also ruthlessly liquidated in Hitlers Germany?
I believe this information has been intentionally suppressed because those who were killed were largely christians, and the covert forces which control the reality of the American public today do not want the followers of Jesus Christ in our nation to awaken to their peril ...until it is far too late.
Hitler hated not only Jews and Judaism, he also hated christians and christianity as well. Why was that? Because Adolf Hitler, just like Margaret Sanger, was a disciple of theosophy and of Madame Blavatsky, the founder of a religion that worshipped Lucifer. Accordingly, both Margaret Sanger and Adolf Hitler were energized by the same "dark, spiritual forces."
The fact that most of our citizens have never heard of Madame Blavatsky, theosophy, or that two of theosophys most ardent disciples were Adolf Hitler and Margaret Sanger clearly reflects the degree of control that exists over what the American people have been allowed to learn about the occultic forces at work in our nation today.
As a researcher on the subject of the occult, I regularly receive letters and publications from the Lucis Trust.
The Lucis Trust of today is the modern-day extension of the "Lucifer Publishing Company," an organization founded by Alice Bailey during the early years of the twentieth century.
Alice Bailey was a disciple of Madame Blavatsky and the nominal leader of the Theosophical Society between the early 1900s and the late 1920s.
Because the name "Lucifer" had such a bad connotation in those days, Alice Bailey changed the name of her organization from "The Lucifer Publishing Company" to "The Lucis Trust."
The nature and beliefs of her organization, however, have always remained the same. The Lucis Trust of today is one of the major front groups through which theosophy works to influence life here in America. The supernatural powers that still energize The Lucis Trust today certainly come from the same dark, spiritual forces that energized Madame Blavatsky, Adolf Hitler, and Margaret Sanger in generations past.
Publications from The Lucis Trust regularly refer to "The Plan" for humanity that has been established by "The Hierarchy." Part of that plan is inscribed on the great granite pillars of the American Stonehenge in Elberton, Georgia ... "The Georgia Guidestones." 13
A full discussion on the subjects of population control and occultism is far beyond the scope of this short monograph. Full documentation on these subjects will be found in my soon-to-be-published book, "None Dare Call It Genocide." At this point let me simply offer a few examples of the views expressed by those who publicly advocate population reduction and/or genocide.
David Graber, a research biologist with the National Park Service, was quoted in the Los Angeles Times Book Review Section, October 22, 1989, as saying:
"Human happiness and certainly human fecundity are not as important as a wild and healthy planet. I know social scientists who remind me that people are part of nature, but it isnt true... We have become a plague upon ourselves and upon the Earth ...Until such time as homo sapiens should decide to rejoin nature, some of us can only hope for the right virus to come along." 14
"Human happiness and certainly human fecundity are not as important as a wild and healthy planet. I know social scientists who remind me that people are part of nature, but it isnt true...
We have become a plague upon ourselves and upon the Earth ...Until such time as homo sapiens should decide to rejoin nature, some of us can only hope for the right virus to come along." 14
Michael Fox, when he was the vice-president of The Humane Society of the United States wrote,
"Mankind is the most dangerous, destructive, selfish and unethical animal on the earth." 15
In "The First Global Revolution," published by The Council of the Club of Rome, an international elitist organization, the authors note that:
"In searching for a new enemy to unite us, we came up with the idea that pollution, the threat of global warming, water shortages, famine, and the like would fit the bill. All these dangers are caused by human intervention ...The real enemy, then, is humanity itself." 16
The Los Angeles Times of April 5, 1994 quoted Cornell University Professor David Pimentel, speaking before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, as saying that,
"The total world population should be no more than 2 billion rather than the current 5.6 billion."
In the UNESCO Courier of November 1991, Jacques Cousteau wrote:
"The damage people cause to the planet is a function of demographics - it is equal to the degree of development. One American burdens the earth much more than twenty Bangladeshes... This is a terrible thing to say. In order to stabilize world population, we must eliminate 350,000 people per day. It is a horrible thing to say, but its just as bad not to say it."17
"The damage people cause to the planet is a function of demographics - it is equal to the degree of development. One American burdens the earth much more than twenty Bangladeshes...
This is a terrible thing to say. In order to stabilize world population, we must eliminate 350,000 people per day. It is a horrible thing to say, but its just as bad not to say it."17
Bertrand Russell, in his book, "The Impact of Science on Society," wrote,
"At present the population of the world is increasing ... War so far has had no great effect on this increase ... I do not pretend that birth control is the only way in which population can be kept from increasing. There are others ... If a Black Death could be spread throughout the world once in every generation, survivors could procreate freely without making the world too full ... the state of affairs might be somewhat unpleasant, but what of it? Really high-minded people are indifferent to suffering, especially that of others." 18
"At present the population of the world is increasing ... War so far has had no great effect on this increase ... I do not pretend that birth control is the only way in which population can be kept from increasing. There are others ...
If a Black Death could be spread throughout the world once in every generation, survivors could procreate freely without making the world too full ... the state of affairs might be somewhat unpleasant, but what of it? Really high-minded people are indifferent to suffering, especially that of others." 18
Negative Population Growth Inc. of Teaneck, New Jersey recently circulated a letter stating their long-range goal.
"We believe that our goal for the United States should be no more than 150 million, our size in 1950. For the world, we believe our goal should be a population of not more than two billion, its size shortly after the turn of the century." 19
In the GlobaI Assessment Report of UNEP (a United Nations sponsored study group), Phase One Draft, Section 9, the authors quoted an expert who suggested that:
"A reasonable estimate for an industrialized world society at the present North American material standard of living would be 1 billion. At the more frugal European standard of living, 2 to 3 billion would be possible." 20
More New Age Influence
Speaking at a round-table discussion group at the Gorbachev Conference held in San Francisco in the fall of 1996, Dr. Sam Keen, a New Age writer and philosopher stated that there was strong agreement that religious institutions have to take a primary responsibility for the population explosion.
He went on to say that,
"We must speak far more clearly about sexuality, contraception, about abortion, about values that control the population, because the ecological crisis, in short, is the population crisis. Cut the population by 90% and there arent enough people left to do a great deal of ecological damage."
Mr. Keens remarks were met with applause from the assembled audience made up largely of New Age adherents, Socialists, Internationalists and occultists.
Many of the leading occultists of our modern world attended that meeting in San Francisco, a meeting organized by Mikhail Gorbachev, former Director of the Soviet KGB, and later President of Russia. 21
What is the message found on The Georgia Guidestones? What is the plan of the "guides"?
If you read occultic literature, you will soon find that those who worship Lucifer today refer to a "Hierarchy" that guides both their actions and the affairs of the world. Who are the "Hierarchy"?
The Lucis Trust, formerly The Lucifer Publishing Company, recently sent a letter to their supporters stating,
"The spiritual Hierarchy makes definite use of the twelve spiritual Festival periods. We can learn to cooperate with the members of the Hierarchy as they work to bring the divine Plan to the attention of men and women of goodwill and spiritual aspiration everywhere throughout the world. The idea of spiritual approach - of Hierarchy to humanity and humanity to Hierarchy - is the primary principle underlying meditation ...understanding of how the spiritual energies which flow through each zodiacal sign can illumine and inspire right human relations." 22
"The spiritual Hierarchy makes definite use of the twelve spiritual Festival periods. We can learn to cooperate with the members of the Hierarchy as they work to bring the divine Plan to the attention of men and women of goodwill and spiritual aspiration everywhere throughout the world.
The idea of spiritual approach - of Hierarchy to humanity and humanity to Hierarchy - is the primary principle underlying meditation ...understanding of how the spiritual energies which flow through each zodiacal sign can illumine and inspire right human relations." 22
The ancient Druids were members of an occultic religion; the circle of monuments at Stonehenge in England is occultic; and the message engraved on the American Stonehenge in Elberton is occultic. Yoko Ono is the widow of John Lennon, a man who was deeply involved in the occult.
Yoko Ono has written a musical score with three movements dedicated to the message of The Georgia Guidestones.
She was recently quoted as saying,
"I want people to know about the stones ...Were headed toward a world where we might blow ourselves up and maybe the globe will not exist ... its a nice time to reaffirm ourselves, knowing all the beautiful things that are in this country, and The Georgia Stones symbolize that." 23
What is the message to modern-day man which is engraved on the great stone pillars of the Druid-like monument in Elberton? The first of the "guides" reads:
"Maintain humanity under 500,000,000 in perpetual balance with nature. (This - Editor) Means the entire human race at its climax level for permanent balance with nature."
The Infamous Tuskegee Study
In recent history, we have seen the influence of occultic population control advocates here in America.
Nowhere is that influence better demonstrated than in the Tuskegee Study, a scientific research program in which 400 syphilis-infected black men were recruited by the U.S. Public Health Service back in 1932. The participants were all told that they would be treated for their infections, but instead of treating their illness, all medicines were withheld.
The black men were then actively prevented from obtaining treatment elsewhere as their bodies, and the bodies of their wives and children, were systematically ravaged by disease.
The evil men who conceived that Nazi-style study justified their atrocity by alleging that scientists needed to learn how untreated syphilis progressed in the human body. For a period of forty years, between 1932 and 1972, the genocidal Tuskegee Study continued. It was not until 1972, when one newspaper finally had the courage to break the story to the public, that the Tuskegee Study was finally terminated. By that time, only 125 of the original 400 black men had survived.
To this very day, 24 years after the end of that grotesque human experiment, none of the perpetrators of that atrocity have ever been either accused or indicted for their crimes.
Back in 1932, when the Tuskegee Study began, Margaret Sangers ideas had already begun to infect the minds and souls of physicians and scientists here in America. According to Margaret Sangers sense of morality, experiments on "human weeds" were fully justified in the name of "science." Do you honestly believe for one moment that such an experiment would have been tolerated here in America had the participants been white men? 24
Another far more effective method of reducing the world population was devised in the early 1960s by a group of environmentalists and population-control adherents. They set out to block the use of DDT for mosquito and malaria control after it had been found that the insecticide was extremely effective in saving human lives.
Alexander King, president of the Club of Rome, wrote,
"My own doubts came when DDT was introduced. In Guyana, within two years, it had almost eliminated malaria. So my chief quarrel with DDT, in hindsight, is that it has greatly added to the population problem." 25
In 1970 The National Academy of Sciences, in their book "Life Sciences," stated that,
"In little more than two decades DDT has prevented 500 million deaths due to malaria."
To population-control advocates, this irresponsible preservation of human life was unconscionable, so they set out to outlaw further use of the pesticide.
Up until 1970 all reliable scientific data had consistently demonstrated that DDT was completely safe for both humans and animals. Indeed, DDT was the safest pesticide ever known to mankind.
Furthermore, it was inexpensive and could be widely used in third-world countries to control the spread of insect-borne diseases. Accordingly, population-control adherents set out to have DDT banned in the name of saving the environment.
You have probably read the contrived stories alleging that DDT caused softening of eggshells, interfered with the balance of nature, and endangered humanity by entering into the food chain. In truth, all of those stories were fabricated, and were simply part of a carefully coordinated program to block further use of the life-saving pesticide.
If you are interested in learning the truth concerning the deceitful campaign waged against DDT, I suggest that you order a copy of my audio-taped interviews with Dr. J. Gordon Edwards.
Dr. Edwards is a world-renowned biologist who led the fight in the 1960s to counter the propaganda program waged by environmentalists and population-control advocates to ban further use of DDT. You can also order a copy of Dr. Edwards excellent monograph, "Remembering Silent Spring and its Consequences."
William Ruckelshaus was a long-time member of the Environmental Defense Fund, and the Director of the EPA. He outlawed further use of DDT in 1972 despite the recommendation of the chairman of the EPA investigating committee which had heard six months of testimony on use of the pesticide, and had determined that DDT was completely safe.
When Ruckelshaus outlawed further use of DDT, he signed the death warrant for hundreds of millions of helpless human beings living in third-world countries. To those energized by the dark side, however, the loss of hundreds of millions of human lives was relatively inconsequential.
In his excellent monograph, "Remembering Silent Spring and its Consequences," Professor J. Gordon Edwards quoted from a speech delivered by Victor Yanconne, founder of the Environmental Defense Fund.
In that talk, Mr. Yanconne related a story told to him by a reporter who had asked Dr. Charles Wurster, one of the major opponents of DDT, whether a ban on DDT wouldnt actually result in far greater use of much more toxic pesticides.
Dr. Wurster is reported to have replied:
"So what? People are the cause of all the problems. We have too many of them. We need to get rid of some of them and this is as good a way as any."
Then asked by the same reporter,
"Doctor, how do you square the killing of people with the mere loss of some birds?"
Dr. Wurster is reported to have replied,
"It doesnt really make a lot of difference, because organo phosphate acts locally and only kills farmworkers and most of them are Mexicans and Negroes." 26
How many people have died in the past 25 years since the use of DDT was outlawed?
If the National Academy of Sciences was correct in their 1970 assessment that 500 million lives had been saved by DDT over a twenty-year period, then we have probably lost well over 600 million human lives during the past twenty-five years since advocates of population control succeeded in outlawing DDT. 27
The Relationship Between Abortion, Breast Carcinoma, and Population Control
Let me offer another example of a population control program which is being promoted here in the United States today.
Many physicians have expressed their concern about the dramatic increase in breast carcinoma seen in women in recent years.
Despite the fact that 18 scientific studies published in both domestic and foreign medical journals have clearly demonstrated the direct causal relationship between first-trimester abortion and breast cancer, all efforts to disseminate that information here in the United States have been consistently blocked by those who favor abortion and population control.
In the fall of 1996 a new scientific paper dealing with a meta-analysis of 23 different scientific studies on the relationship between first-trimester abortions and breast cancer was published in a British Medical Journal.
That study clearly demonstrated a higher incidence of breast cancer in women who had had first-trimester abortions. In response to that publication, the American Medical Association (AMA), the American Cancer Society (ACS), and pro-abortion/population-control advocates joined together in an unholy alliance to attack the conclusions of the authors, and to block all efforts to disseminate that information to American physicians.
All of the organizations mentioned above continue to oppose efforts to have physicians warn women of the risk they face when they submit themselves to first-trimester abortions. Before carrying out all surgical procedures in America "advised consent" is required, except for abortion.
The AMA, the ACS, and the pro-death lobby continue to insist that women must not be advised of the risk they incur when they destroy the life of their unborn child.
Why is there such inconsistency? Current abortion policies in America are absolutely necessary to reduce our population.
That is why a minor child can be taken from school to an abortion clinic without parental notification, yet that same child cannot be given an aspirin without parental consent.
It all has to do with population control. 28
Population Control in Russia Today
Another dramatic example of population control is the tragedy being played out in the "former" Soviet Union today in regard to male longevity.
In Russia, the life span of the average Russian male has dropped precipitously over the past several decades. The average life expectancy of an American male is 74-78 years of age, and in Japan the average life span is 78 years, but the average life span of Russian men has fallen from 68 years in the 1970s to 63.8 years in 1985, to 57.7 years in 1994.
It is estimated that, if current trends continue, the average life span of a Russian male will be 53 years shortly after the turn of the century. Do you really believe that this shocking reduction in life span is happening simply by "accident"?
The true cause of this dramatic reduction in life span in Russia will be detailed in my coming book, "None Dare Call It Genocide." 29
The Massacres in Africa
One has only to learn what really happened to the christians in Rwanda between April and July of 1994 to imagine what may lie in store for christians here in America at some time in the not-too-distant future.
After the christian Tutsis had been disarmed by governmental decree in the early 1990s, Hutu-led military forces began to systematically massacre the defenseless christians. The massacre began in April 1994 and continued until July 1994.
Using machetes rather than bullets, the Hutu forces were able to create a state of abject fear and terror within the helpless christian population as they systematically butchered hundreds of thousands of them.
The United Nations immediately convened hearings on the genocide taking place in Rwanda, but Madeline Albright, the American Ambassador to the United Nations, argued strenuously that neighboring African nations should not be allowed to intervene until the "civil war had come to an end."
In reality, of course, there was no civil war since those being slaughtered had no weapons with which to defend themselves; it was simply a matter of mass murder.
In addition to blocking intervention by neighboring nations, Madeline Albright also insisted that the word "genocide" must not be used, and that the United Nations forces stationed in Rwanda were not to be allowed to intervene. In the three months that followed, between one-half and three-quarters of a million christians were systematically dismembered, hacked to death, and slaughtered in the bloody carnage that ensued.
Tens of thousands of christians were murdered in their churches; tens of thousands more were murdered in their hospitals and in their schools. On several occasions, United Nations soldiers stationed in Rwanda actually handed over helpless christians under their protection to members of the Hutu militia. They then stood by as their screaming charges were unceremoniously hacked to pieces.
At the end of the carnage, in late July 1994, the American government rewarded the Hutu murderers with millions of dollars in foreign aid.
Strangely, the American press has remained silent about the fact that almost all of those who were slaughtered were christians, and it was the policies of our government that were primarily responsible for blocking efforts by neighboring African countries to intervene. 30
There are literally dozens of other examples of population-control programs which have been implemented throughout our world by modern-day "Malthusians" in their effort to ensure that the world population is dramatically curtailed. To date it is estimated that far more than one billion human lives have been terminated as a result of the world-wide abortion programs financed by the United States.
In addition, we are beginning to see the devastating effects of the AIDS epidemic as this modern-day plague begins to depopulate large areas of both Asia and Africa.
Because of the influence of occultic population controllers, however, all logical efforts to address the HIV epidemic throughout the world continue to be blocked. Rather than utilizing the proven public health methods used with all other illnesses, advocates of population control continue to promote both hedonistic sex education and condom distribution.
In the May 1996 issue of "Special Warfare," a publication of the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School, it was noted that:
"The immediate future may present other daunting challenges to Civil Affairs units. Because of complicated social and cultural reasons, AIDS already infects a high proportion of the military and civilian officials of Zaire, Uganda, Kenya, Zambia, and other central Africa countries. In some or all of these countries, government establishments may collapse in the next 10-15 years. If this pattern is repeated in other areas where AIDS is spreading at an alarming rate, then civil rule may also erode or break down in parts of North Africa, the Middle East, India, and Southeast Asia." 31
"The immediate future may present other daunting challenges to Civil Affairs units. Because of complicated social and cultural reasons, AIDS already infects a high proportion of the military and civilian officials of Zaire, Uganda, Kenya, Zambia, and other central Africa countries.
In some or all of these countries, government establishments may collapse in the next 10-15 years. If this pattern is repeated in other areas where AIDS is spreading at an alarming rate, then civil rule may also erode or break down in parts of North Africa, the Middle East, India, and Southeast Asia." 31
Let me assure you that there really are hundreds of thousands of occultly energized people throughout the world today who honestly believe that human compassion is outmoded, and that the inferior peoples of the world must either be allowed to die or be actively exterminated.
I will conclude this monograph by quoting from the writings of the English Churchman, Thomas Robert Malthus (1766-1834).
In his "An Essay on the Principle of Population," Malthus wrote:
"All children born, beyond what would be required to keep up the population to a desired level, must necessarily perish, unless room may be made for them by the deaths of grown persons... Therefore... we should facilitate, instead of foolishly and vainly endeavoring to impede, the operations of nature in producing this mortality..." 32
"All children born, beyond what would be required to keep up the population to a desired level, must necessarily perish, unless room may be made for them by the deaths of grown persons...
Therefore... we should facilitate, instead of foolishly and vainly endeavoring to impede, the operations of nature in producing this mortality..." 32
I personally believe that God expects each and every of us to become involved in the affairs of this world until He returns. Furthermore, I believe that all human life is sacred. We are told that christians are to be the "salt and light of the world," the preservative that keeps humanity from rotting.
What is the christian church doing today to preserve the lives of the inhabitants of Gods earth; what are you doing to protect the lives of those who have been targeted by the forces of darkness? Today, the AIDS epidemic is beginning to depopulate both Africa and the non-Communist countries of Asia?
What can you do?
Order my taped interview with Peter Hammond which tells the story of the murder of the christian population of Rwanda. Order my four-tape set on Population Control which includes information on The Georgia Guidestones and the plan of the "guides." You have my permission to copy and distribute my audio tapes and this monograph, in order to disseminate this information as far and wide as possible. Get involved in local political organizations. Speak out on these matters on talk-radio, in your church, and to your friends. The life you save could well be that of a loved one ...a friend ...or your own. Finally, pray that our Lord will intervene, and that our nation can be returned to Godly leadership.
Order my taped interview with Peter Hammond which tells the story of the murder of the christian population of Rwanda.
Order my four-tape set on Population Control which includes information on The Georgia Guidestones and the plan of the "guides." You have my permission to copy and distribute my audio tapes and this monograph, in order to disseminate this information as far and wide as possible.
Get involved in local political organizations. Speak out on these matters on talk-radio, in your church, and to your friends. The life you save could well be that of a loved one ...a friend ...or your own.
Finally, pray that our Lord will intervene, and that our nation can be returned to Godly leadership.
End Notes
1) Copies of the material obtained in Elberton, Georgia, on The Georgia Guidestones, and a four-audio-tape set on "Population Control" are available from Radio Liberty: P.O. Box 13, Santa Cruz, CA, 95063. 2) Bartletts Familiar Quotations: Fifteenth Edition: Little, Brown, and Company: p. 824. 3) Killer Angel: George Grant: Reformer Press: p 105: available from Radio Liberty: P.O. Box 13, Santa Cruz, CA, 95063. 4) ibid: page 65 5) ibid p 65, 71-72, 92: see also Pivot of Civilization: Sanger: New York: Bretanos: pp 101,108,123: 6) Womans Body, Womans Right: Linda Gordon: New York: Penguin Press: p 204: see also: Killer Angel: p 64 7) Womans Body, Womans Right: p 332: see also Killer Angel: p 73 8) Killer Angel: p 74: see also: Womans Body, Womans Right: Linda Gordon: New York: Penguin Press: pp 229-334. 9) Womans Body, Womans Right: pp 229-334: see also Killer Angel: p 73 10) Killer Angel: p 104 11) Killer Angel: p 90: see also The Dark Side of Freemasonry: Decker: Huntington House: p 71: equating Satan with the "white deity": see also: The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow: Cumbey: Huntington House: available from Radio Liberty. 12) Warrant for Genocide: Cohn: Harper and Rowe: 1966: p 15. 13) Killer Angel: op cited: p 90: see also: Hitler and the New Age: Rosio: Huntington House: Available from Radio Liberty. P.O. Box 13, Santa Cruz, CA, 95063: see also the Radio Liberty interview with Aaron Zellman: see also The Pagan Agenda: tape series available from Radio Liberty: See also The Aquarian Conspiracy by Marylin Ferguson: see also The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow: Constance Cumbey: available from Radio Liberty. 14) Los Angeles Times: Book Review Section: October 22, 1989: p 9. 15) Animal Rights: A New Species of Egalitarianism: The Intellectual Activist: September 14, 1983: p 3: Also quoted in The War on the West: William Perry Pendley: Henry Regnery: p 15. 16) The First Global Revolution: Club of Rome, Alexander King and Bertrand Schneider, 1991: Pantheon Books, New York, p 115 17) The Population Controllers: New American Magazine: June 27, 1994: p 7. 18) The Impact of Science on Society: Bertrand Russell: 1953: p xv. 19) Material is available from Radio Liberty, P.O. Box 13, Santa Cruz, CA, 95063. 20) The World Conservative Union: Rue Mauverney 28, CH-1196 Gland, Switzerland. 21) Copies of the text of Dr. Keens remarks are available from Radio Liberty. 22) A copy of the letter quoted from The Lucis Trust is available from Radio Liberty for researchers. 23) Quotation from Yoko Ono was found on the web site: http://www.odysee.net%7Ericjoly/geostone.htlm#francisco. Copies available from Radio Liberty for researchers. 24) AIDS and the Doctors of Death: Aries Rising Press: Los Angeles: pp 168-170. 25) Remembering Silent Spring and its Consequences: J. Gordon Edwards: a monograph: p 7: available from Radio Liberty, or from Dr. Edwards at San Jose State University in San Jose, CA. 26) Reported by Chairman John Rarick: House Hearings on the Federal Pesticide Control Act of 1971, pp 266-267, in Serial No 92-A: quoted in a treatise by Dr. J. Gordon Edwards: A taped interview with Dr. Edwards is available from Radio Liberty, as is his treatise: see also Environmental Overkill: Dixy Lee Ray: Regnery: p 77. 27) Environmental Overkill: op cited: pp 76-77 and 192: see also my 2-hour interview with Dr. Dixy Lee Ray: see also Dr. Edwards treatise on DDT, available from Radio Liberty. 28) Strong Abortion-Breast Cancer Link Revealed: Washington Times: October 12, 1996: A1. 29) Russia Strives to Reverse Population Shrinkage: Washington Times: September 22, 1996: p A8. 30) An audio-taped interview with Peter Hammond of Front Line Ministries is available from Radio Liberty: also see Holocaust in Rwanda: Peter Hammond: available from In Touch Mission Intl (ITMI), P.O. Box 28240, Tempe, AZ, 85285. 31) Special Warfare: May 1996: PB 80-96-2: Special Operations and LIC in the 21st Century: The Joint Strategic Perspective: Brian Sullivan: p 2. 32) Killer Angel: op cited: pp 50-51.
Return to Depopulation of Planet Earth
