# The Metamind

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/crystal_tablet/tsrl19.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 19
The Metamind
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c) Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version
by TS permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
The AEon of Set heralds the expansion and extension of Elect minds into yet a third stage of intellectual evolution - a point of perspective as far removed from that of mankind as mankind's is from Pithecanthropus. [No doubt the prospect will seem as incredible to humans as a forecast of their Coming Into Being would have seemed to Pithecanthropus.] Many phenomena casually called "ESP" are in fact the first symptoms of what may be termed the Metamind.
Setians should gain an understanding of the human mind's characteristics, physiology, and potential - then apply Metamental experiments to appropriate situations. "The most exhilarating thing in the world, I think, is the ability of the Setamorphic Metamind to correlate all its contents." 19A. "The Philosopher's Stone" by Colin Wilson. NY: Warner Paperback Library #0-446-59213-7, 1974. (TS-1)
MA: "A novel concerning the Metamind - with a Lovecraftian accent. A more intellectual treatment of the theme than Wilson's better-known #7E [although #7E has a more colorful plot]. An expansion on much of the historical and bibliographical data in #19A may be found in Wilson's earlier book "The Outsider" (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1956). Subsequently Wilson wrote #4A and became thoroughly confused when he tried to explain the Metamind as a natural phenomenon." 19B. "The Psychology of Man's Possible Evolution" by Peter D. Ouspensky. NY: Alfred A. Knopf, 1969. (CS-1) (TS-1) AL: "Should be read especially by those members whose magical ability is hampered by flaws in their balance factor."
MA: "A series of lectures which explain the Gurdjieff approach to the concept better than G. himself was able to do. If you're unfamiliar with G., see "Gurdjieff" by Louis Pauwels (NY: Weiser, 1972). See also the section on G. in #4A." 19C. "The Fourth Way" by Peter D. Ouspensky. NY: Random House (Vintage), 1957. (TS-4)
MA: "An advanced commentary in the form of questions and answers concerning the material covered by #19B. The greatest value in both this book and #19B lies in the subsequent practice and use of the techniques by the magician." 19D. "Tao of Jeet Kune Do" by Bruce Lee. Burbank: Ohara Publications, 1975. (TS-4) Lee: "To realize freedom, the mind has to learn to look at life, which is a vast movement without the bondage of time, for freedom lies beyond the field of consciousness. Watch, but don't stop and interpret, 'I am free' - then you're living in a memory of something that has gone. To understand and live now, everything of yesterday must die." 19E. "The Brain Revolution" by Marilyn Ferguson. NY: Bantam Books #553- 08412-225, 1975. (TS-3)
MA: "An easy-to-read summary of the physiology of the brain to the extent that it is mapped. Well-researched and documented. This book is an excellent jumping-off point for further investigations. An especially interesting section describes the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of the brain to physical and psychological stimuli or deprivation. In other words, the mind is affected by the body more than most persons realize. This is important to the magician in control both of self and of others." 19F. "Physical Control of the Mind: Towards a Psychocivilized Society" by Jose' M.R. Delgado, M.D. NY: Harper and Row (Harper Colophon Books), 1969. (TS-4)
MA: "Delgado, Professor of Physiology at Yale University, is one of the most distinguished authorities in the field of Electrical/chemical Stimulation of the Brain (ESB). This book is necessarily dated, but it is so well-written that it deserves to be perused as a preface to more recent works on the subject. In various sections of the text, Delgado discusses ESB techniques and experiments, clinical & psychological applications of ESB, the definition of the mind and 'soul' as distinct from the brain, and the many ethical issues involved in such a line of research. For a discussion of the Central Intelligence Agency's ESB experiments, see "Operation Mind Control" by W.H. Bowart (NY: Dell #0-44016755-8, 1978). See also "The Search for the 'Manchurian Candidate'" by John Marks (NY: Times Books, 1979). See also #19X." 19G. "The Psychology of Anomalous Experience" by Graham Reed. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1974. (TS-4)
MA: "Reed is Professor of Psychology at Canada's York University. This book addresses unusual, irregular, and puzzling experiences - deja' vu, illusions, delusions, hallucinations, etc. - in terms of the mind's normal psychological processes of gathering, monitoring, processing, and storing information. Drawing from the "Existenz" of Jaspers (#16B) and others who have stressed the distinction between the form and content of psychological experience, Reed approaches the border between psychology and philosophy. An extremely useful reference text for the magician who is attempting to identify valid mental vs. Metamental impressions." 19H. "The Roots of Coincidence" by Arthur Koestler. NY: Vintage Books #V- 934, 1972. (TS-3)
MA: "The debate over the sense/nonsense of parapsychology rages on. To date "Psi" has not yet been proven to standards of scientific law, but then neither have a great many other interesting and useful phenomena. In their anxiety to gain academic respectability, parapsychologists have been easy victims for the Uri Gellers and other opportunists and fringe-occultists. This book by Koestler cuts through all the confusion and discusses the concepts of telepathy, psychokinesis, precognition, ESP, and clairvoyance in a rational and logical context. Subsections relate the concepts to Einsteinian theories of physics and fields, and to the controversial theories of Lamarck and Kammerer. Selected theories in this book were later tested by Koestler, and the results were compiled as The Challenge of Chance by Alister & Robert Hardie and Koestler (NY: Vintage Books #V-393, 1975).
The physical, physiological, philosophical, and metaphysical conclusions drawn by Koestler from his cumulative research are set forth in his "Janus: A Summing Up" (NY: Random House, 1978), recommended as a complement to the aforementioned earlier works." 19I. "Design for Destiny" by Edward W. Russell. NY: Ballantine Books #23405, 1971. (TS-3) -and- 19J. "The Fields of Life: Our Links with the Universe" by Dr. Harold Saxon Burr. NY: Ballantine Books #23559, 1972. (TS-4)
MA: "During a period of more than forty years, Burr and his colleagues at the Yale University School of Medicine conducted research that indicated the existence of electrodynamic fields surrounding an permeating living entities. Even more interesting was the evidence that these fields can be 'mapped', and that changes in the fields can be used for diagnostic purposes. [See also #17F.] #19J is Burr's own account of his research; it is both more technical and more scholarly than #19I (which is a deliberately sensationalized speculation on the possible implications of the L-field theory). Accordingly #19J may be considered a work of scientific calibre, while #19I is more along the lines of 'food for thought'. For example, #19I hypothesizes the existence of similar fields for thought ('T-fields'), which might be a way out of the difficulty of justifying ESP in terms of energy required for electronic transmission.
Normal electrical thought impulses are too weak to pass through the skull, much less the air beyond." 19K. "The Game of Wizards: Psyche, Science, and Symbol in the Occult" by Charles Ponce. Baltimore: Penguin Books #3864, 1975. (TS-3)
MA: "Ponce is a member of the C.G. Jung Foundation for Analytical Psychology [see also #14C]. In this book he attempts to formulate the connection between the human psyche and the 'occult', and on the whole he is successful. The reader will note the influence of #19I/J in his methodology. Ponce's only problem is that he is a neo-Cabalist; hence he hangs himself by one foot from the Tree of Life. His book is interesting and provocative nevertheless." 19L. "Propaganda: The Formation of Men's Attitudes" by Jacques Ellul. NY: Vintage Books #V-874, 1973. (TS-3)
MA: "Between objective truth and the subjective individual lies interpretation, and the deliberate manipulation of this interpretation is called 'propaganda'. This book defines the concept, illustrates its social applications & effects, and evaluates its psychological consequences in a careful, scholarly manner. [For a specific discussion of the use of propaganda in religion, see William Sargent's "Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversion and Brainwashing" (NY: Harper & Row Perennial Library #P-231, 1957).]" 19M(1). "The Crack in the Cosmic Egg" by Joseph Chilton Pearce. NY: Washington Square Press #41648-0, 1971. 19M(2). "Exploring the Crack in the Cosmic Egg" by Joseph Chilton Pearce. NY: Washington Square Press #83118-6, 1974. (TS-3)
MA: "A philosophical exploration into the human body's ability, both conscious and unconscious, to alter objective reality, with both physiological and philosophical [don Juan, Christ, etc.] case studies. Necessarily Pearce investigates the conceptual processes involved in 'thinking' and finds that the entire body - not just the 'roof brain' - is involved in the process. Many actual principles applicable to ritual magic, ESP, and PK phenomena may be uncovered, if only to the extent of a crack, in these intriguing works. [Compare also with #19I/J.]" 19N. "The Deep Self" by John C. Lilly, M.D. NY: Warner Books #33-023, 1977. (TS-5)
MA: "Lilly has achieved prominence [or notoriety] as the principal proponent of, and experimentor with the sensory deprivation tank during the last two decades. This book summarizes and analyzes the findings of his earlier books and reports, and offers practical guidance concerning the construction and use of isolation tanks. Lilly, who along with his work was portrayed in the 1981 film "Altered States", comments: 'In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true either is true or becomes true within certain limits. These limits are to be found experientally and experimentally. When the limits are determined, it is found that they are further beliefs to be transcended. In the province of the mind, there are no limits. The body imposes definite limits.'" 19O. "A New Model of the Universe" by Peter D. Ouspensky. NY: Alfred A. Knopf, 1931 [reprinted Random House (Vintage Books), 1971]. (TS-3)
MA: "A series of essays addressing various problems of esoterica according to what Ouspensky calls the 'psychological method'. He surveys many Eastern and Western cultural traditions, together with modern scientific principles, in an attempt to find common threads. The title of the book is somewhat misleading, because the book does not comprise an integrated argument towards a particular conclusion. [The title is actually that of one of the included essays.] I would recommend #19B and #19C first, after which one will be sufficiently familiar with Ouspensky's idiom to derive the greatest benefit from his essays." 19P. "Behavior Control" by Perry London. NY: Harper & Row, 1969. (CS-3) AL: "A Satanic glimpse into the very near future. As this book was too hot for most markets, it might be difficult to obtain." 19Q. "The Myth of Mental Illness" by Thomas S. Szasz. NY: Dell Publishing Co., 1961. (CS-3) AL: "A scathing indictment against the Judaeo/Christian glorification of weakness and inadequacy which has fostered the psychic vampire. A fine book by a courageous writer." 19R. "The Manufacture of Madness" by Thomas S. Szasz. NY: Dell Publishing Co., 1970. (TS-3)
MA: "An incisive comparison of the philosophy and methods of the medieval Inquisition with those of the modern mental health profession, specifically with reference to involuntary mental hospitalization. Szasz is an M.D. who is motivated by outrage at what he perceives as unethical practices within his profession. In this volume he explains how an initial, tacit decision is made to consider a deviant - as an 'Other' (i.e. something less than a 'normal' human being), whereupon any social, religious, or humanistic rights that 'normal' humans have may be denied him with impunity. Once accorded 'Other' status, the unfortunate victim becomes the helpless plaything of the society and its officials. In this sense a medieval person accused of witchcraft, a concentration-camp inmate, and a member of contemporary society declared legally insane are all 'Others'. For a series of historical readings illustrating the progress of this phenomenon, see Szasz' "The Age of Madness" (NY: Doubleday Anchor Books, 1973)." 19S. "The Secret of the Golden Flower" by Richard Wilhelm (Trans.). London: Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd, 1931. (TS-3)
MA: "A classic of Chinese Taoism describing the process of the attainment of transcendental existence by the means of creating a mandala from the personal subconscious. An oriental approach to the premises of #19M, as well as being one of the key influences in the magical philosophy of W.B. Yeats [see #10H]." 19T. "Wilhelm Reich: Life Force Explorer" by James Wyckoff. Greenwich, Conn.: Fawcett Publications #449-00586-095, 1973. (TS-3)
MA: "A thoughtful, carefully researched, and succinct biography of Reich, including synopses of his various theories. An excellent 'first book' to read to become acquainted with this 20th-century 'Dr. Frankenstein'. For a more detailed account of his controversial theory of life energy, see Ola Raknes, Ph.D., "Wilhelm Reich and Orgonomy" (Baltimore, Maryland: Penguin Books #A1472, 1971). See also #14A, as well as my "Cloven Hoof" article 'The Frankenstein Legacy' [reprinted as Appendix 75 in #6N]." 19U. "An End to Ordinary History" by Michael Murphy. Los Angeles: J.P. Tarcher [distributed by Houghton Mifflin], 1982. (TS-4)
MA: "Like many other works on this list, this book is an iceberg-tip. The entire field of parapsychological research in the Soviet Union and other communist countries has long lain under a blanket of semi-suppression - not because such research is discredited, but rather because it is considered a potentially vital state secret. Since the publication of Ostrander & Schroeder's "Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain" in 1970, there hasn't been much written outside of obscure technical material [which is fine for the Temple's archives but inconvenient for individual Setians' libraries]. #19U is a novel, but derives much of its 'fiction' from Murphy's extensive experience in this field in collaboration with the 'Transformation Project', a San Francisco-centered data base of human consciousness evolution. See also "Jacob Atabet" by the same author. Murphy is co-founder of California's famous Esalen Institute at Big Sur." 19V. "The Soulsucker" by Ted Sabine. NY: Pinnacle Books, 1975. (TS-3) Robertt Neilly IV*: "The main character in this novel has a functioning Metamind. Its understanding of the human mind enables it to convey mental suggestions to humans, including bodily sensations, moods, and time & sense perception." 19W. "Mind Wars" by Ron McRae. NY: St. Martin's Press, 1984. (TS-3)
MA: "An update to "Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain" with a military flavor, written not by scientists but by one of Jack Anderson's sensationalistic journalists. Nevertheless this is a rather impressively researched and written book, packed with data found nowhere else outside of classified government research reports. McRae analyzes the 'remote viewing' experiments conducted amongst much fanfare & big bucks by the Stanford Research Institute [see #2O] and concludes [as I do] that their results are unconvincing. Excellent chapter entitled 'The Need to Believe' on wishful thinking concerning Psi phenomena. The debunking of phony psychics like Uri Geller is treated. The chapter on the 'First Earth Battalion' is zany; its deletion would have improved the book. There is an excellent 12-page bibliography, listing both classified and unclassified sources." 19X. "Acid Dreams: The CIA, LSD and the Sixties Rebellion" by Martin A Lee and Bruce Shlain. NY: Grove Press, 1985. (TS-3)
MA: "This is an oversize/345-page paperback which takes the reader on a behind-the-scenes tour of the psychedelic/hippie/new left culture of the United States ~ interrelated with the covert drug exploration, money laundering, and clandestine dealing programs of the private and public sectors. It is a tour to leave even the most cynical & suspicious Satanist thoroughly stunned at the calculating 'machinery' operating behind the apparently-innocent peace/love movement of the '60s/'70s. This story does not devalue the genuine idealisms of some of the more visionary and idealistic people described in #4K, but it does show that every silver cloud has its dark lining - to rearrange the aphorism a bit! In this case the lining was/is a very dark one indeed."
