# The Thule Society and The Real Adolph Hitler

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_thule04.htm

from ThreeWorldWars Website
The planning of the Second World War started when Adolph Hitler joined a secret society called the Thule Society in 1919. It was in this group that he found the perverted beliefs that were later to lead him in his control of the German government. In the Thule Society:
"... the sun played a prime role... as a sacred symbol of the Aryans, in contrast to... the moon, revered by the Semitic peoples. The Fuhrer saw in the Jewish people, with their black hair and swarthy complexions, the dark side of the human species, whilst the blond and blue-eyed Aryans constituted the light side of humanity. ... Hitler undertook to extirpate from the material world its impure elements."1
In addition to sun (or light) worship, the Thule Society also practiced Satan worship:
"The inner core within the Thule Society were all Satanists who practiced Black Magic."2
The Society was not a working-man's group as it included amongst its members:
"judges, police-chiefs, barristers, lawyers, university professors and lecturers, aristocratic families, leading industrialists, surgeons, physicians, scientists, as well as a host of rich and influential bourgeois.... "3
The membership of the Thule Society also became the foundation of the Nazi Party:
"... the Committee and the forty original members of the New German Workers' Party were all drawn from the most powerful occult society in Germanythe Thule Society."4
One of the founders of both groups, the Nazi Party and the Thule Society, was Dietrich Eckart:
"a dedicated Satanist, the supreme adept of the arts and rituals of Black Magic and the central figure in a powerful and wide-spread circle of occultiststhe Thule Group. (He was] one of the seven founder members of the Nazi Party...."
Eckart claimed to be the initiator of Hitler into the secrets of Satan worship. He is quoted as saying on his deathbed:
"Follow Hitler. He will dance, but it is I who have called the tune! I have initiated him into the 'Secret Doctrine;' opened his centers in vision and given him the means to communicate with the Powers. Do not mourn for me: I shall have influenced history more than any German."
But it was not just the Thule Society that gave Hitler the support he needed to become the leader of the German government. There were additional sources of Hitler's strength. One who offered an explanation of Hitler's easy rise to power was Walter Langer, a noted psychoanalyst. Langer wrote in his book The Mind of Adolph Hitler that it was his theory that Hitler was himself one-quarter Jewish and the grandson of a Rothschild.
He wrote:
There is a great deal of confusion in studying Hitler's family tree. Adolph's father, Alois Hitler, was the illegitimate son of Maria Anna Schicklgruber. It was generally supposed that the father of Alois Hitler was Johann Georg Hiedler.... Alois, however, was not legitimized, and he bore his mother's name until he was forty years of age when he changed it to Hitler. A peculiar series of events, prior to Hitler's birth, furnishes plenty of food for speculation.There are some people who seriously doubt that Johann Georg Hiedler was the father of Alois. Thyssen and Koehler, for example, claim that Chancellor Dolfuss (the Chancellor of Austria) had ordered the Austrian police to conduct a thorough investigation into the Hitler family. As a result of this investigation a secret document was prepared that proved Maria Anna Shicklgruber was living in Vienna at the time she conceived.At that time she was employed as a servant in the home of Baron Rothschild. As soon as the family discovered her pregnancy she was sent back to her home in Spital where Alois was bom.5
In a postscript in Langer's book, Robert G.L. Waite adds this comment:
"But even when Langer is mistaken and his guesses prove incorrect, he is often on the right track. Consider his hint that Hitler's grandfather might have been a Jew. There is no reason to believe the unlikely story told by Langer's informant that Hitler's grandmother Maria Anna Schickelgruber, a peasant woman in her forties from the Waldvietral of rural Austria, had had an intimate liason with a Baron Rothschild in Vienna. But Hitler had worried that he might be blackmailed over a Jewish grandfather and ordered his private lawyer, Hans Frank, to investigate his paternal lineage.Frank did so and told the Fuehrer that his grandmother had become pregnant while working as a domestic servant in a Jewish household in Graz.The facts of this matter are in disputeand a very lengthy dispute it has been. The point of overriding psychological and historical importance is not whether it is true that Hitler had a Jewish grandfather, but whether he believed that it might be true. He did so believe and the fact shaped both his personality and his public policy." 6
"But even when Langer is mistaken and his guesses prove incorrect, he is often on the right track.
Consider his hint that Hitler's grandfather might have been a Jew. There is no reason to believe the unlikely story told by Langer's informant that Hitler's grandmother Maria Anna Schickelgruber, a peasant woman in her forties from the Waldvietral of rural Austria, had had an intimate liason with a Baron Rothschild in Vienna. But Hitler had worried that he might be blackmailed over a Jewish grandfather and ordered his private lawyer, Hans Frank, to investigate his paternal lineage.Frank did so and told the Fuehrer that his grandmother had become pregnant while working as a domestic servant in a Jewish household in Graz.The facts of this matter are in disputeand a very lengthy dispute it has been. The point of overriding psychological and historical importance is not whether it is true that Hitler had a Jewish grandfather, but whether he believed that it might be true. He did so believe and the fact shaped both his personality and his public policy." 6
It is possible that Hitler discovered his Jewish background and his relation to the Rothschilds, and aware of their enormous power to make or break European governments, re-established contact with the family. This would partially explain the enormous support he received from the international banking fraternity, closely entwined with the Rothschild family, as he rose to power. One thing is certain, however. Hitler started World War II by moving into Austria first. It has been theorized that he moved into this country for two reasons. First, he wanted to silence Dolfuss who Hitler believed knew that he was a descendant of the Rothschilds, and secondly, he wished to remove all traces of his ancestry from the Austrian records.
Sources
Jean-Michel Angebert, The Occult and the Third Reich Trevor Ravenscroft, The Spear of Destiny Ibid. Ibid. Walter C. Langer, The Mind of Adolf Hitler Ibid.
Jean-Michel Angebert, The Occult and the Third Reich
Trevor Ravenscroft, The Spear of Destiny
Ibid.
Walter C. Langer, The Mind of Adolf Hitler
Return
