# The Hoover Institution

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/world_order/WorldCh07-3.htm

Because of growing Congressional outcry against the vast expenditures of the major foundations on behalf of Communist revolutionary causes, the World Order decided to give the American people some "anti-Communist" foundations, based in the Hoover Institution on War, Peace and Revolution. The Hoover group is generally thought to be conservative, but on examining their personnel and directors, we find the same old international crowd of Bolsheviks and financiers.
The Hoover Institution was founded at Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif. in 1919 with a donation of $50,000 from Herbert Hoover. He had been a member of the first graduating class at Stanford, founded with a bequest from Leland Stanford, the Southern Pacific railroad tycoon. His only son, Leland Stanford Jr. died in a hotel room in Florence, Italy at the age of fifteen. His grieving mother became the prey of a number of spiritualists, one of whom persuaded her to start a spiritualist university, founded on such mystical Eastern teachings, as "The balance between night and day is the balance of the world", and "The mainspring of the movement of the world". "Life and death is the great secret of immortality."
Because of the difficulty of organizing these doctrines into a coherent academic curriculum, Mrs. Stanford was dissuaded from the idea of a "spiritualist" university, and the present Stanford University then came into being. Reputedly "conservative", it has in fact been dominated by Harvard Liberals for many years.
Herbert Hoover founded the Hoover Institution at the suggestion of three men, Andrew Dickson White, Daniel Coit Gilman, and Ray Lyman Wilbur, president of Stanford. Newsweek June 7, 1959 noted that Hoover said:
"In 1915 while head of the Committee on Relief in Belgium, I happened to read some remarks by President Andrew White of Cornell made at a conference on the disappearance of contemporaneous documents and fugitive literature."
Hoover says he resolved to institute a search of Europe after the war to obtain documents and preserve them in an academic setting. Gilman and Wilbur aided him in planning this program. Both White and Gilman were original incorporators of the Russell Trust, which has dominated American education for a century. Wilbur requested that Hoover install this collection at Stanford. Wilbur served as director of the Rockefeller Foundation 1923-40, and General Education Board, 1930-40. His nephew and successor as president at Stanford, Richard Lyman, is now president of the Rockefeller Foundation.
Wilbur also served as Secretary of the Interior in Hoover's Cabinet 1929-33. During this period, he signed the contracts for Hoover Dam, having thought up that name. The dam was not completed until after FDR took office; he maliciously ordered his Secretary of Interior, Harold Ickes, to change the name to Boulder Dam. Hoover points out in his Memoirs that:
"...two-thirds of the work had been done during the Hoover Administration, all contracts were let as Hoover Dam, as was customary with many presidents with works named after them when these works were done during their administrations; on May 8, 1933, Secretary Ickes, on orders from Roosevelt changed the name to Boulder Dam."
Roosevelt dedicated the dam Sept. 30, 1933 without mentioning Hoover or the fact that most of the work had been done during the Hoover Administration. On March 10, 1947, the House unanimously voted to change the name back to Hoover Dam. Hoover wrote to Congressman Jack Z. Anderson, who had sponsored the bill, "When a President of the U.S. tears one's name down that is a public defamation and an insult. I am grateful to you for removing it."
Because of the importance of the Hoover Institution in the Reagan Administration, it is important to recap the career of the man who founded it. As a mining stock promoter in London, Hoover had been barred from dealing on the London Stock Exchange, and his associate, who apparently took the rap, went to prison for several years. The incident brought Hoover to the favorable attention of the Rothschilds, who made him a director of their firm, Rio Tinto. Chairman was Lord Milner, who founded the Round Tables, which later became the Royal Institute of International Affairs and its subsidiary, the Council on Foreign Relations.
In 1916, the promoters of World War I were dismayed when Germany insisted she could not continue in the war, because of shortages of food and money. The Czar's physician, Gleb Botkin, revealed in 1931 that the Kaiser's chief military adviser, and chief of his armies on the Russian border, Grand Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt, risked his life on a secret mission to Russia to Czarskoe Selo, the Imperial Palace, where he asked his sister, Empress Alexandra, to let him talk to the Czar about making a separate peace with Germany. The Empress, fearful of criticism, refused to receive him, and after spending the night at the palace, he was escorted back to the German lines.
To keep Germany in the war, Paul Warburg, head of the Federal Reserve System, hastily arranged for credits to be routed to his brother, Max Warburg, through Stockholm to M.M. Warburg Co. Hamburg. Food presented a more difficult problem. It was finally decided to ship it directly to Belgium as "relief for the starving Belgians". The supplies could then be shipped over Rothschild railway lines into Germany. As director for this "relief" operation, the Rothschilds chose Herbert Hoover. His partner in the Belgian Relief Commission was Emilie Francqui, chosen by Baron Lambert, head of the Belgian Rothschild family.
The plan was so successful that it kept World War I going for an additional two years, allowing the U.S. to get into the "war to end wars". John Hamill, author of "The Strange Career of Herbert Hoover" states that Emile Francqui, director of Societe Generale, a Jesuit bank, opened an office in his bank as the National Relief and Food Committee, with a letter of authorization from the German Gov. Gen. von der Goltz. Francqui then went to London with this letter, accompanied by Baron Lambert, head of the Belgian Rothschilds, and Hugh Gibson, secretary of the American Legation in Brussels.
The "Report of the National Committee" states that:
"The National Committee and its subsidiary organizations were not subject to control of the Belgian Public Administration and neither was it accountable to the Public as a public authority. The National Committee existed by itself according to the will of its founders and those who had given it their support. That is why it was sovereign in the decisions it made and excluded all control of its actions by the Public."
Hamill says:
"From its commencement, the Food Division had been organized and conducted on a commercial basis. The Commission for Relief in Belgium raised its sale prices to the National Committee by an amount equivalent to the profit that had formerly been taken by it. Hoover referred to this as 'benevolence'."
Francqui had previously been a partner of Hoover in the Kaipeng coal mine swindle in China, which set off the Boxer Rebellion, [with] the Chinese vowing to kill all "white devils" in China; and the Congo atrocities, where Francqui was remembered by the sobriquet, "the Butcher of the Congo". He was an ideal choice to be partner in a benevolent enterprise.
The National Committee report published in 1919 showed that as of Dec. 31, 1918 the Committee had spent $260 million. In 1921, trying to make the accounts balance, this figure was revised upward to $442 million showed as spent during the same period. However, $182 million was unaccounted for. In Dec. 1918, Francqui showed expenditure for relief of $40 million, four times as much as for any previous month, although the war was now over. On Jan. 13, 1932, the New York Times reported widespread attacks on Hoover in the Belgian press, "that President Hoover, during his Belgian Relief days, had manifestly been party to a scheme to make money out of Belgium."
Hoover was then appointed U.S. Food Administrator in Washington. Although the operation was principally run by Lewis L. Strauss of Kuhn, Loeb Co., Hoover still depended heavily on his longtime associate, Edgar Rickard. On Nov. 13, 1918, Hoover sent a letter to President Wilson requesting authority for Edgar Rickard "to act in my stead" while he was in Europe. Wilson signed the letter Nov. 16, 1918, "Whereas by virtue of exec. order Nov. 16, 1918, Edgar Rickard now exercises all powers heretofore delegated to Herbert Hoover as U.S. Food Administrator." Rickard assumed the title of "Acting Food Administrator in Washington" according to a letter from Herbert Hoover Jan. 17, 1919, "since my departure to come to conference in Paris."
The U.S. Food Administration was then split into four divisions, Sugar Equalization Board, Belgian Relief, U.S. Grain Corp. and U.S. Shipping Board. On Dec. 16, 1918, Wilson sent a letter to the State Dept. an executive order, "Please pay at once to the U.S. Food Administration Grain Corp. $5 million from my fund for National Security and Defense." The order was referred to the Secretary of Treasury for payment and approved.
Justice Brandeis biography by Mason notes, "Norman Hapgood wrote Brandeis from London Jan. 10, 1917, 'Herbert Hoover is the most interesting man I know. You will enjoy his experience in diplomacy, finance etc. in England, France, Belgium and Germany!" In early February he talked with justice Brandeis, who arranged for him to see Senator McAdoo, Wilson's son-in-law, leading to Hoover's appointment as U.S. Food Administrator.
On Jan. 21, 1919, the New York Times noted the Senate debate in which Hoover was assailed for his proposed $100 million request for aid to Europe. The plan was criticized by Sen. Penrose and Sen. Gore as one that would unload the surplus of American meat packers in Europe. Sen. Penrose asked Sen. Martin, the Democratic floor leader if Hoover "is an American citizen and has ever voted in an American election?" Martin retorted, "I do not propose to be drawn into such an irrelevantism as that". Penrose then declared, "I do not believe he is a citizen of the U.S., who has taken no oath of office, and whose allegiance is in doubt." The criticism so piqued Hoover that he signed a letter of resignation reciting his "four years of public service without remuneration." It was never submitted and turned up many years later in the personal papers of his assistant, Lewis L. Strauss.
The New York Times noted Sept. 4, 1919 that Edgar Rickard had made a speech at Stanford Univ. vigorously promoting the League of Nations. Hoover and Col. House were also working together to obtain Senate approval and public approval for Wilson's League of Nations plan.
The members of the Commission for Relief in Belgium team have subsequently played a very prominent role in the history of the U.S. Hoover became Secretary of Commerce and later President of the U.S. A team from Hoover Institution moved into Washington in 1980 as the vanguard of a "conservative" administration. Prentiss Gray, Hoover's assistant in the U.S. Food Administration, became president of J. Henry Schroder Banking Corp. in 1922. Julius H. Barnes, another Hoover associate, became Chairman of J. Henry Schroder Bank. Perhaps a surplus of "relief funds" subsequently purchased a number of American corporations. Barnes became president of Pitney Bowes, Pejepscot Paper, General Bronze, Barnes-Ames Corp., Northwest Bancorporation, and Erie & St. Lawrence Corp.
Edgar Rickard, Hoover's partner since they launched a magazine in 1909 to promote their mining stocks, had been honorary secretary of Commission for Relief in Belgium; he now became president of Androscoggin Water Power Co., president Belgo-American Trading Co; vice pres. Erie & St. Lawrence Corp.; president Hazard Wire Rope Co., president Hazeltine Corp.; vice pres. Intercontinental Development Corp., president Latour Corp., president Pejepscot Paper Co., and vice president Pitney Bowes Co., chairman Wood Fibre Board Corp.
Robert Grant of the U.S. Food Administration became director of the U.S. Mint in Washington. Prentiss Gray became vice pres. British American Continental Corp., Electric Shareholdings Corp., Hydroelectric Securities Corp., Manati Sugar Corp., St. Regis Paper, Swiss American Electric, Prudential Investors, International Holdings and Investment Corp. -- the last two being companies controlled by Societe Generale and Francqui. These investment firms were organized by Belgian capitalist Capt. Alfred Loewenstein, who mysteriously vanished from his plane while flying over the English Channel.
While his closest advisers pursued their multi-million dollar careers, Herbert Hoover remained dedicated to his ideals of public service. He became Secretary of Commerce, and chose as his secretary Christian A. Herter, who had been his secretary at the Belgian Relief Commission, 1920-21, and had also been secretary of the American Commission to Negotiate Peace. He was secretary to Hoover 1919-24 at Commerce; he married into the Pratt family of Standard Oil, who gave their Manhattan mansion as headquarters for the CFR, and he was later appointed Secretary of State.
Charles Michelson wrote of Hoover's career at the Dept. of Commerce, in "The Ghost Talks", 1944:
"Officially, Mr. Hoover was ever a promoter. When he took over the Dept. of Commerce, it was a reasonably modern organization. He took the Bureau of Mines from Interior. He dipped into the State Dept. when he realized his idea of commercial agents abroad, and left the old commercial attaches of our legations jobless. It was not by accident that he builded for his department the hugest and perhaps the most lavishly furnished palace that housed a branch of the government."
One of Hoover's most notable deeds, as Secretary of Commerce, was his award of the Hazeltine radio patents to his partner since 1909, Edgar Rickard, a gift conservatively estimated to be worth at that time one million dollars. When Hoover organized his campaign for the presidency, he gave as his personal address Suite 2000, 42 Broadway N.Y. Suite 2000 was also listed as the office of Edgar Rickard. It was also the address of Hoover's erstwhile accomplice in the U.S. Food Administration, Julius H. Barnes, chairman of the Schroder Bank, which was to soon win notoriety as Hitler's personal bank.
Although "Wild Bill" Donovan had served Hoover faithfully for four years while he sought the nomination to the Presidency, Hoover did not hesitate to cast him aside when he became a political liability because of his Catholic religion. The New York Times noted June 17, 1928:
"W.A. Bechtel of San Francisco sent a congratulatory telegram to the nominee, 'In behalf of the construction industry we congratulate the Republican Party on its selection of a candidate for chief Engineer of the greatest business in the world for the next four years, one of our fellow Californians who has shown yourself deserving of this great honor.'"
Hoover was soon preparing contracts for the largest public work of that time, the Hoover Dam, of which Bechtel was to become the chief contractor.
Despite his charitable preoccupations, Hoover still engaged in free enterprise. On Dec. 7, 1919, he and his partner Julius H. Barnes had bought the Washington Herald; it was later acquired by the Patterson-McCormick family, and still later, by Eugene Meyer, who promptly closed it down. Barnes also bought the Penobscot Paper Co. for $750,000 in 1919; he happened to have some extra cash on hand. The New York Times Jan. 28, 1920 [reported] that Col. House was busily developing a boom at Austin, Texas for Hoover as President, with the aid of some British friends. The Times further noted Jan. 28, 1920 that the British Government denied that Lord Grey was taking part in the Hoover boom.
At a dinner at the Hotel Commodore, April 23, 1920, Julius Barnes and Herbert Hoover were the guests of honor. The keynote speaker announced that the name of Herbert Hoover was "known throughout the civilized world".
From the time that White, Gilman and Wilbur persuaded Hoover to gather documents for the Hoover Library, much support was made available from official sources. Even then, no one was sure just how World War I had gotten started. It was to someone's interest to see to it that as many pertinent and secret documents from the warring powers should be gathered in one place, gone over, and, if necessary, secluded from prying eyes.
Hoover was able to call upon Gen. Pershing to provide hundreds of Army officers to aid him in his quest. In his "Foreword to The Special Collection of the Hoover Library", Hoover says that he recruited 1500 officers from the American Army, and the Supreme Economic Council, and sent them to all parts of Europe. The New York Times Feb. 5, 1921 says that Hoover had as many as 4000 agents in Europe, going from country to country to gather these documents. Even in those pre-inflationary times, the cost of maintaining 4000 agents in Europe must have been prohibitive. No one has ever found out who was paying them. Also, many of the documents were purchased outright. The only expenditure Hoover ever made public was the original $50,000 he had given in 1919 to establish the library. Who spent millions of dollars to put this collection together? It is most unlikely that Hoover would have parted with such sums, but no one has ever admitted putting any money into this project.
The Times noted in the Hotel Commodore story that Hoover, a member of the first graduating class at Stanford, had presented the school with a collection of 375,000 volumes. It included the most valuable collection of secret Bolshevik records in existence, among them, the lists of the original district Soviets, which had been bought from a doorkeeper for $200. The Times noted that the Soviet Government had no copies of these rare archives! Times, June 30, 1941, noted that the Bolsheviks had allowed Hoover to remove 25 carloads of material, at a time when Russian refugees were permitted to leave only with the clothes on their backs. The solicitude for Hoover's collection may have been influenced by the fact that he had saved the infant Bolshevik regime from extinction by rushing large quantities of food to them.
Hoover's collection also included the complete secret files of the German War Council during World War I, a gift from President Ebert; Mata Hari's diary, and sixty rare volumes from the Czar's personal library. Many of the collections were permanently sealed. Time noted that the Hoover Institution contained 300 sealed collections, which no one has ever been allowed to examine.
One can only speculate whether interested parties, perhaps the Rothschilds, Hoover's employers, determined at the close of World War I, to remove the secret documents of Europe's warring nations to some far-off place, such as the West Coast of America, to lessen their political liability, damaging evidence of various acts of collusion.
The initial organization of the material was done by a Stanford professor of history, Ehpraim D. Adams (1865-1930). Adams and his wife were installed in an office in Paris May 22, 1919, to receive the first shipments of documents. Other offices were opened in Berlin, London, and New York. Aiding Adams were Dr. Alonzo Engelbert Tyler, who had been educated at the University of Berlin, served on War Trade Board 1917-19, and staff member of Stanford Food Research Institute; Dr. Carl Baruch Alsberg, also educated at University of Berlin, worked for the Dept. of Agriculture; and Dr. Joseph Stancliffe Davis, a Harvard professor of economics.
The advisory committee of the original Hoover Library consisted of Dr. James R. Angell, president of Yale, and president Carnegie Corp.; Dr. J.C. Merriam, educated at the University of Munich, chmn Natl Research Council, and Carnegie Institution; Herbert Hoover; and Julius H. Barnes.
Prof. Adams was Director of the Hoover Library 1920-25. He was succeeded by Ralph H. Lutz, who headed the library from 1925-44. Lutz had served on the Supreme Economic Council, Paris under Bernard Baruch 1918-19. In 1910 he received a Ph.D from the University of Heidelberg. He had taken his undergraduate degree from Stanford 1906. He had served as vice chmn Hoover Library under Adams 1920-25.
Harold H. Fisher was director Hoover Library 1944-52. He had been deputy director of American Relief Administration and its chief historian under Hoover 1920-24. He was professor of history at Stanford Univ. from 1933 on, becoming emeritus in 1955, director of Hoover's Belgian American Educational Foundation 1943-64, and chairman of the Pacific Council of IPR 1953-61 during the period when the FBI arrested a number of IPR executives and charged them with espionage. While chairman of IPR, Fisher continued to give his mailing address as Hoover Institution, Stanford University. The New York Times noted Oct. 29, 1929, that Hoover, as President of the U.S., had sent greetings to the IPR meeting, "My best greetings and wishes".
The next director of the Hoover Institution was C. Easton Rothwell, 1952-60; he had been chairman of research at the Hoover Institution 1947-52. From 1941-46, he served as chief of spec. research and political affairs, Dept. of State; he was exec. sec. U.N. Conference at San Francisco 1945 under Alger Hiss; was on the staff of Brookings Institution 1946-7, staff of the Natl War College 1951, delegate to Fulbright Conference, Cambridge England 1954.
In 1960, the library, now known as the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, was headed by Wesley Glenn Campbell, who is still its director. Born in Ontario, Campbell took his degree from Harvard 1946, PH.D. 1948, and taught there in the Economics Dept. five years. He became economist for the Chamber of Commerce 1951-54, American Enterprise Institute, 1954-60, when he became head of Hoover Institution. He is director of Hoover's Belgian American Education Foundation, and the super secret Mont Pelerin Society, which publishes no information about its meetings.
Campbell married Rita Ricardo, who continues to use her maiden name. She is a direct descendant of the famed economist, David Ricardo, whose theory of rent was appropriated by Karl Marx. Ricardo also originated "the law of wages", which states that workers must be limited to a bare subsistence wage, the amount controlled by "taxation". Ricardo also regarded workers as mere producers of "labour-time", a theory which Marx adopted as basic to his concept of labour. It embodies the classic parasitic view that the host exists only to produce sustenance for the parasite, and has no right to the products and gains of his own labour. An article in Change, Oct. 1981 states that Rita Ricardo "helped shape Reagan's thinking on social security and national health insurance", both of which are applied as taxation on the worker's income.
In 1964, Campbell and other Hoover personnel were the chief advisers of the Goldwater campaign; within two decades they had become the most influential policy-makers at the White House.
The New York Times Index for the period of Hoover's presidency, 1929-33, contains no references to either Stanford or the Hoover Library. On June 23, 1933, the Times noted that the ex-President would maintain an office at Stanford. Instead, he took a suite at New York's Waldorf Astoria, and spent the remainder of his life there. Although he was rarely seen at the Hoover Institution, he presided over the annual gatherings of the West Coast powerhouse, Bohemian Grove, and was viewed as its reigning figure.
The New York Times March 24, 1935 referred to "Hoover's Palo Alto Brain Trust", although the Brain Trust did not take power in Washington until 1980. On June 30, 1941, a new 14 story, 210 ft. building, costing $1.2 million, was dedicated for the Hoover Institution at Stanford by President Seymour of Yale, a Romanesque tower housing some 5 million documents, many of them sealed. The Saturday Evening Post, Mar. 11, 1950, noted that Edgar Rickard, director of Hoover Institution, had raised $600,000 in 1937 towards the cost of the new building.
Hoover stated that the purpose of the library was "to expose through research the inequities of Communism", although he had originally written it as "to demonstrate the evils of the doctrine of Karl Marx." A later president of Stanford, Wallace Sterling, re-edited this in 1960 to read "to expand human knowledge, that human welfare may thus be enhanced", a classic example of Orwell's "doublethink". Sterling explained this act of censorship by claiming, "We cannot have research with predetermined conclusion". Sterling, also born in Ontario, had been a member of the Hoover research staff from 1932-37, was awarded the Hoover Medal. He was with the Ditchley Foundation 1962-76, and has served on the staff of HEW and the Natl War College.
On July 21, 1957, the Hoover Library officially changed its name to Hoover Institution on War, Peace and Revolution. It receives funding from Lilly, Pew, and Volker Funds, and the Sarah Mellon Scaife Foundation. Ford Foundation gave it $255,000 in 1953. On July 6, 1943, the Lilly Fund had financed a three day conference at the institution for Bertram Wolfe, New York; Raymond Aron, France; and Richard Lowenstein of Berlin. All of these beneficiaries were old line liberals.
In 1927, because of Wilbur's directorship there, the Rockefeller Foundation gave the Hoover Library $200,000 for Slavic Studies. The Carnegie Corp. also gave $180,000. On Jan. 7, 1975, President Ford signed a $30 million scholarship bill; tacked onto it was a $7 million grant to the Hoover Institution. The Dept. of justice gave the Hoover $600,000 to study crime.
Stanford University's campus is world headquarters for Hewlett-Packard and the multi-billion electronics industry. The 8800 acres of Stanford's campus was originally Leland Stanford's Palo Alto Stock Farm, which he endowed with some $20 million. The campus houses a $105 million Atomic Energy Commission laboratory (SLAC) built through the influence of L.L. Strauss, chairman of AEC and director of Hoover Institution. Two thousand acres have been set aside for rental units. A shopping center on the campus pays $500,000 rent annually.
The 300 acres Stanford Research Park houses the world headquarters of Hewlett-Packard. In 1912, Lee de Forest invented the vacuum tube in Palo Alto, launching the radio industry. Prof. Louis Terman of Stanford invented the Stanford-Binet IQ test; his son Fred became professor of electric engineering at Stanford, and persuaded two of his students, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, to start an electronics concern. Hewlett-Packard now has $4.4 billion annual sales, 68,000 employees. Fortune says Bill Hewlett is worth $1.045 billion, Dave Packard is worth $2.115 billion.
Prof. William Shockley invented the transistor here, launching the Silcon Valley complex. His invention was later taken over by Fairchild Semiconductor, which is now owned by Schlumberger Inc. Shockley received little or nothing for his discovery.
Stanford received $3 million from the Ford Foundation for a medical center, and in Sept. 1959, the Ford Foundation gave Stanford $25 million, its largest gift to any educational institution. The New York Times noted on Oct. 10, 1977, that Stanford "known as the Harvard of the West", had completed a $300 million fund-raising campaign headed by Arjay Miller, former president of Ford Motor Co. The Harvard influence has always been strong at Stanford and the Hoover Institution. Donald Kennedy, who became president of Stanford in 1980, married Jeanne Dewey, took his AB., MA., and PH.D. from Harvard, and served on the Harvard Board of Overseers from 1970-76. He was Commissioner of Food & Drugs under President Carter 1977-79, before becoming president of Stanford.
Stanford has other important real estate holdings. Time, Jan. 14, 1966 noted that Stanford has a German castle at Beutelsbach, a villa in Florence, a hotel in Tours, and occupies Harlaxton Manor, a 365 room stone mansion in Lincolnshire leased to Stanford by the Jesuits.
"The Guide to the Hoover Institution", published in 1980, notes that Rita Campbell is Archivist; Robert Hessen is Deputy Archivist. The collection is composed of 24% North America, 26% Russia and Eastern Europe; 27% Western Europe, and 1.8% Latin America. Page 5 of the Guide notes that the collection was inspired by two historians, Andrew D. White, president of Cornell, and Ephraim Adams of Stanford. No. 2358 in the collection is the Paris files of the Czarist Secret Police; No. 2373, the files of the Imperial Russian Okhrana (secret police); No. 2382, a list of the atrocities committed by Soviet political agents in Kiev.
On June 25, 1962, Alfred Kohlberg (known as the head of the China Lobby) died; he left 15 cabinets of papers which are restricted until 1991. The Max. E. Fleischmann Foundation spent $250,000 for Boris Nikolaevsky's 40-year collection of Russian documents, which were then presented to Hoover Institution. The Hoover collection also includes the personal diaries of Joseph Goebbels and Heinrich Himmler, the files of Basil Malakoff, Soviet Ambassador in Washington 1919-26, the files of the Bank for International Settlements, and the official Japanese records of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
In 1966, Alan H. Belmont joined the Hoover as exec. asst. to the director. He had formerly been with the FBI 1936-65, serving as personal assistant to J. Edgar Hoover. Also at the Hoover was Stefan Possony, educated at the University of Vienna, came to the U.S. in 1940, was advisor to the War Dept. 1943-46, and was appointed director of international political studies at the Hoover in 1961.
In 1963, the directors of the Hoover Institution included:
Richard Amberg, publisher of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch
Clarence Bamberger, mining engineer
William J. Baroody, who had founded the American Enterprise Institute, and was chairman of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Karl R. Bendetsen, chairman of Champion Paper, was special War Dept. representative to Gen. MacArthur 1941, spec. adviser to Secretary of the Army, asst. Secretary of Defense 1948-52, chairman of the Panama Canal Co., and Ambassador to West Germany and the Philippine Islands
James B. Black Jr. of Lehman Bros
Arthur Curtice, chariman General Motors
Paul L. Davies Jr., who directed the evacuation of the Japanese from the West Coast to concentration camps in 1941, heads leading West Coast law firm of Pillsbury Madison & Sutro, partner Lehman Bros., director of IBM, Southern Pacific and Caterpillar
Northcutt Ely, Washington lawyer who represented Sec. Wilbur in negotiating the contracts for Hoover Dam 1930-33
Richard E. Guggenhime, president of Rosenberg Foundation
Harold H. Helm, chmn Chemical Bank, director of Westinghouse, Uniroyal, Colgate, Woolworth, Bethlehem Steel, Equitable, McDonnell Douglas, and Cummins Engine
John A. McCone of Bechtel-McCone 1937-45, Und. Sec. AF 1950-51, Chmn AEC 1958-60, director CIA 1961-65
N. Loyall McLaren, president of the billion dollar James Irvine Foundation, was treasurer of the UN Conference at San Francisco 1945 under Alger Hiss, was also appointed to Allied Commission on Reparations 1945
Jeremiah Milbank, New York financier, head of the Milbank Foundation and director Chase Manhattan Bank
George C. Montgomery, chairman of Kern County Land Co.
William I. Nichols, publisher of THIS WEEK, served with War Production Board 1942-45
David Packard, chmn. Hewlett-Packard - his personal fortune increased by $1 billion in 1983
Richard M. Scaife, vice pres. Mellon Natl Bank
Adm. L.L. Strauss, of Kuhn, Loeb Co., chmn AEC 1946-50, lists himself in Who's Who as "financial adviser to Messrs Rockefeller"
R. Douglas Stewart, president Quaker Oats
Gardner Simonds, chmn. Tenneco, Kern County Land Co.
Robert C. Tyson, chmn. U.S. Steel, director Chemical Bank, Uniroyal
Thomas J. Watson Jr., chmn IBM, director Rockefeller Foundation
Stephen Duggan, chmn. emeritus Institute of International Education -- father of late Laurence Duggan who died mysteriously, member of World Peace Foundation, League of Nations Association
Anson Phelps Stokes, of the Institute of International Education, director General Education Board
Harold H. Swift, chmn. Swift Packing Co. chmn. War Finance Committee Dept. of Treasury 1941-44
Augustus Trowbidge, intelligence director of American Exped. Force under Pershing in World War I
In 1980, the directors of Hoover Institution included:
Bendetsen
Black
Philip Habib, of Bechtel, and Reagan's Special Ambassador to the Middle East
Henry T. Bodman, chairman Natl Bank of Detroit, director and vice chmn American Enterprise Institute-his son Richard served with the Treasury Dept., was Asst. Sec. Interior, now president of COMSAT
David Tennant Bryan, married into the Harkness family, chmn Media General
Willard C. Butcher, former chmn Chase Manhattan, now director American Enterprise Institute
Joseph Coors, director Heritage Foundation
Charles A. Dana Jr., director Manufacturers Hanover Trust, Dana Foundation
Shelby Cullon Davis, was with CBS 1932-34, economic adviser to Dewey in his Presidential campaigns, Ambassador to Switzerland 1969-75, trustee of Princeton, Heritage Foundation
Maurice Greenberg, president American International Group
Alan Greenspan, president Economics Advisers since 1981, consultant to U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve Board 1971-74, director Time, General Foods, J.P. Morgan, Morgan Guaranty Trust
Bryce Harlow, asst. to President of U.S. 1959-61, and 1969-70, now Washington lobbyist for Proctor & Gamble
A. Carol Kotchian, president Lockheed
J. Clayburn La Force, dean of Graduate School of Management Univ. of California, Fulbright scholar, director Natl Bureau of Economic Research, Mont Pelerin Society
William B. Macomber Jr., president Metropolitan Museum, was with CIA 1951-53, spec. asst. for intelligence at State Dept. 1953-54, spec. asst. to Und Sec. State Herbert Hoover Jr. and Sec. of State John Foster Dulles 1955-57, Ambassador to Teheran and Jordan
Emil Mosbacher Jr., known as "Kingmaker", was chief of protocol State Dept. 1969-72, director Chubb, Chemial Bank, Avon, AMAX -- his brother Robert was nat. chmn Bush for President, chmn Gerald Ford's unsuccessful election campaign, co chmn Republican Natl Committee
David Packard, of Hewlett Packard, American Enterprise Institute
Donald Rumsfeld, pres. Rand Corp., pres. G.D. Searle, asst to Pres. Nixon 1969-73, perm. rep. to NATO 1973-74, director of Sears, and Institute of Strategic Studies, London.
Although the "butcher paper weeklies" such as The Nation issue grim warnings that the Hoover Institution is deeply engaged in the practice of "cold war anti-Communism", the New York Times has noted that the Hoover is surprisingly liberal. Its longtime senior fellows [are]:
Sidney Hook, oldline Socialist who keeps a portrait of George Meany on his office wall
Seymour Martin Lipset, longtime liberal closely identified with the offices of Democratic Senators Henry Jackson and Daniel Moynihan, taught at Harvard, Univ. of Calif., received the Gunnar Myrdal Prize 1970, nat. chmn B'Nai B'Rith Hillel and United Jewish Appeal
John Bunzel, Democratic liberal now associated with the Libertarian Party
Stanley Fischer, liberal from MIT
Joseph Pechman, the Hoover Institution resident tax expert--he had been tax expert at Brookings Institution Washington for many years before coming to Hoover
Other resident liberals are Dennis J. Dollin, Theodore Draper and Peter Duignan.
Lipset was quoted in an interview in the New York Times as follows: "Over half the senior fellows here are not rightwingers, not even conservatives; they are leftwing Democrats and Socialists."
These are the architects of Reagan's "rightwing" administration, the usual flimflam in which the same tired old Marxists are trotted out as the inspired libertarians of a world run by the "Hard Right"! The head of Reagan's Presidential Transition Team on cabinet appointments in 1980 was W. Glenn Campbell, Harvard graduate and head of Hoover Institution; Reagan's adviser on social security was his wife, Rita Ricardo Campbell. More than half of the Hoover staff went to Washington with Reagan.
Richard Starr and Peter Duignan were his advisers on foreign policy; Duignan had received fellowships from Ford, Rockefeller, & Guggenheim
Thomas Gale Moore was Reagan's expert on energy policy
Paul Craig Roberts became asst. Sec. Treasury
Richard V. Allen, who had been on the staff of the Hoover Institution since 1966, served on National Security Council 1969, dep. asst, to the President 1969-70, now became Reagan's asst. for national security affairs
Martin Anderson, senior fellow at Hoover Institution 1971-81, became Reagan's asst for policy development; he thought up the ridiculous boondoggle of "Urban Enterprise Zones".
One of the "Hoover Hotshots" on Reagan's team was described in Omni March 1984, Continuum:
"Honegger Hotline: Pres. aide Barbara Honegger was hired by Martin Anderson at Hoover Institution while writing a book on the draft; she wore a scarab necklace and was the first graduate in experimental psychology at John F. Kennedy University, Olinda, Calif.; she had advised Reagan to decide against underground shells of MX missiles because psychics would target them; she had him put 5500 additional warheads on our 33 nuclear submarines because psychic brainwaves are absorbed by the churning sea. Despite Anderson's protests, she was finally ushered out of the White House."
So much for "the Extreme Right" in scarab necklaces and dodging psychic brain waves.
Campbell's Presidential Transition Team spent $l million from donors plus $2 million provided by Congress, but could not get a single "rightwinger" installed on Reagan's staff. The largest payment went to longtime liberal Joseph Califano, who was paid $86,047.93 for representing Alexander Haig at his Senate confirmation hearings as Secretary of State. "Rightwinger" Haig said Califano was an oldtime friend. The deputy director of the Transition Team, Verne Orr, served as comptroller of the Reagan campaign, and is now Secretary of the Air Force.
Seymour Martin Lipset, who voted for John Anderson in 1980, took a survey of the 25 Hoover fellows in 1984; he found 11 Democrats, 10 Republicans, 3 independent, and one who was not a citizen. The Three Honorary Fellows of Hoover Institution are Ronald Reagan, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and Frederick von Hayek. Reagan is in Washington, Solzheinitsyn lives in Vermont; von Hayek is retired in Salzburg. None of them has any connection with the administration of the Hoover Institution. Reagan has already donated his papers to the Hoover Institution.
In June, 1981, Hoover Institution held a gala reception at the Sheraton Carlton in Washington, with many White House officials present. They effectively short-circuited all of Reagan's campaign promises for lower taxes, decreased government spending, and the goal of "getting the government off of our backs".
