# The Aerospace Corporation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/elite/aerospace_corp.htm

The Aerospace Corporation
Bradford W. Parkinson has served as a director of Trimble (leading innovator of Global Positioning System (GPS) technology) since 1984, and as a consultant to the Company since 1982. Dr. Parkinson served as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer from August 1998 through March 1999. From 1980 to 1984 he was Group Vice President and General Manager for Intermetrics, Inc. where he directed five divisions. He also served as President of Intermetrics' industrial subsidiary, PlantStar. In 1979, Dr. Parkinson served as Group Vice President for Rockwell International directing business development and advanced engineering.
Currently, Dr. Parkinson is the Edward C. Wells Endowed Chair professor at Stanford University and has been a Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics at Stanford University since 1984. Dr. Parkinson has also directed the Gravity Probe-B spacecraft development project at Stanford University, sponsored by NASA, which is the largest program delegated by NASA to a university and has been program manager for several Federal Aviation Administration sponsored research projects on the use of Global Positioning Systems for navigation.
Dr. Parkinson was on leave of absence from Stanford University while serving as Trimble's President and Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Parkinson received a B.S. degree from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1957, a M.S. degree in Aeronautics/ Astronautics Engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1961 and a Ph.D. in Astronautics Engineering from Stanford University in 1966.
http://www.trimble.com/bparkinson.html
Bradford W. Parkinson, the Edward C. Wells Professor in the School of Engineering, Emeritus, was one of five scientists who received a 2002 Innovation Award from Discover magazine at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., on June 5. "Brad Parkinson made it possible for no one to ever get lost and ever have to ask for directions again," Discover's editors lauded. "For the first time in history, we have a mechanism that gives us our exact location on Earth. Parkinson built the Global Positioning System (GPS), the most accurate and far-reaching navigation system the world has ever known.
The revolutionary tracking technology has transformed navigation, recreation, law enforcement, warfare and virtually every other enterprise that depends on knowing where something is, was or will be." An estimated 9 million GPS units were built last year alone. A $100 GPS set can precisely guide anyone to any spot on Earth within 30 feet, and anywhere in the United States within 6 feet.
http://www.stanford.edu/dept/news/report/news/june12/people-612.html
**
Vice
Chair
Gen. Howell M.
Estes III (USAF, Ret.)
Retired effective Oct. 1, 1998.
General Howell M. Estes III is commander in chief, North American Aerospace Defense Command (CINCNORAD) and United States Space Command (USCINCSPACE), and commander, Air Force Space Command (COMAFSPC), headquartered at Peterson Air Force Base, Colo.
As CINCNORAD, General Estes is responsible for the air sovereignty of the United States and Canada, as well as for providing tactical warning and attack assessment. As USCINCSPACE, he commands the unified command responsible for directing space control and support operations including theater missile defense. As COMAFSPC, he directs satellite control, warning, space launch and ballistic missile operations missions through a worldwide network of support facilities and bases.
The general entered the Air Force in 1965 as a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy. He has commanded both operational and maintenance squadrons, the Air Force's only stealth fighter unit, an air division and numbered air force. Prior to his current position, he served as director for operations (J-3), the Joint Staff, the Pentagon, Washington, D.C. A command pilot with more than 4,500 flying hours, he flew 169 combat missions as an F-4 pilot during the Vietnam conflict. During the Gulf War he served as deputy chief of staff for operations, Strategic Air Command.
EDUCATION:
1965 Bachelor of science degree in military science, U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo.
1975 Master of arts degree in public administration, Auburn University, Ala.
1975 Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.
1983 National War College, Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C.
ASSIGNMENTS:
1. June 1965 - November 1966, student, undergraduate pilot training program, Moody Air Force Base, Ga.
2. November 1966 - April 1967, student, F-4 qualification training, MacDill Air Force Base, Fla.
3. April 1967 - May 1969, F-4D pilot, 335th Tactical Fighter Squadron, Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, N.C.
4. May 1969 - May 1970, F-4E commander, 34th Tactical Fighter Squadron, Korat Royal Thai Air Force Base, Thailand
5. May 1970 - April 1972, F-4E pilot and chief of standardization and evaluation, 32nd Tactical Fighter Squadron, Camp New Amsterdam (now Soesterberg Air Base), Netherlands
6. May 1972 - July 1973, weapons tactics staff officer, Headquarters U.S. Air Forces in Europe, Lindsey Air Station, West Germany
7. July 1973 - August 1974, command briefing officer, Headquarters U.S. Air Forces in Europe, Ramstein Air Base, West Germany
8. August 1974 - August 1975, student, Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.
9. August 1975 - January 1979, air operations staff officer, Europe-NATO Division, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.
10. February 1979 - August 1982, commander, 20th Tactical Fighter Training Squadron; then commander, 35th Equipment Maintenance Squadron; then assistant deputy commander and subsequently deputy commander for maintenance; 35th Tactical Fighter Wing, George Air Force Base, Calif.
11. August 1982 - July 1983, student, National War College, Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C.
12. July 1983 - June 1984, deputy assistant director for joint and National Security Council matters, directorate of plans, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.
13. June 1984 - January 1986, commander, 4450th Tactical Group, Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.
14. January 1986 - June 1987, special assistant to the chief of staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, Brussels, Belgium
15. June 1987 - August 1988, commander, 14th Air Division, Strategic Air Command, Beale Air Force Base, Calif.
16. August 1988 - July 1991, assistant deputy chief of staff for plans and programs; deputy chief of staff for plans and resources; then deputy chief of staff for operations, Headquarters Strategic Air Command, Offutt Air Force Base, Neb.
17. July 1991 - August 1992, director of plans, deputy chief of staff for plans and operations, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.
18. August 1992 - October 1994, commander, 7th Air Force, Pacific Air Forces; deputy commander, U.S. Forces Korea; commander, Air Component Command, Republic of Korea and U.S. Combined Forces Command; commander, U.S. Air Forces Korea; and deputy commander in chief, United Nations Command, Osan Air Base, Republic of Korea
19. October 1994 - August 1996, director for operations (J-3), the Joint Staff, Washington, D.C.
20. August 1996 - present, commander in chief, North American Aerospace Defense Command and United States Space Command, and commander, Air Force Space Command, Peterson Air Force Base, Colo.
FLIGHT INFORMATION:
Rating: Command pilot
Flight hours: More than 4,500
Aircraft flown: A-7, F-4, F-16, F-117 and EC-135
MAJOR AWARDS AND DECORATIONS:
Defense Distinguished Service Medal with oak leaf cluster
Distinguished Service Medal
Defense Superior Service Medal
Legion of Merit
Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster
Meritorious Service Medal with three oak leaf clusters
Air Medal with 10 oak leaf clusters
Air Force Commendation Medal with two oak leaf clusters
OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS:
Co-authored "Strategic and Doctrinal Implications of Deep Attack," CONOPS for the Defense of Central Europe
http://www.af.mil/news/biographies/estes_hm.html
Gen. Howell Estes is the President of Howell Estes & Associates, Inc., a wholly owned consulting firm to CEOs, Presidents and General Managers of aerospace and telecommunications companies worldwide. He serves as Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees at The Aerospace Corporation. He served as a consultant to the Defense Science Board Task Force on SPACE SUPERIORITY and more recently as a commissioner on the U.S. Congressional Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization (the “Rumsfeld Commission”).
SpaceDev, Inc. (OTCBB: SPDV), the world's first publicly- traded commercial space exploration and development company, today announced that General Howell M. Estes, III (USAF Retired) has joined SpaceDev’s Board of Directors.
General Estes retired from the United States Air Force in 1998 after serving for 33 years. At that time he was the Commander-in-Chief of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (CINCNORAD) and the United States Space Command (CINCSPACE), and the Commander of the Air Force Space Command (COMAFSPC) headquartered at Peterson AFB, Colorado. In addition to a Bachelor of Science Degree from the Air Force Academy, he holds a Master of Arts Degree in Public Administration from Auburn University and is a graduate of the Program for Senior Managers in Government at Harvard’s JFK School of Government.
http://www.spacedev.com/media/pressrelease/04apr01.html
**
Dr. William F.
Ballhaus, Jr.
Dr. William F. Ballhaus Jr. is president and chief executive officer of The Aerospace Corporation, an independent, nonprofit organization dedicated to the objective application of science and technology toward the solution of critical issues in the nation's space program.
Dr. Ballhaus joined Aerospace as president in September 2000 after an 11-year career with Lockheed Martin Corporation. He became president and CEO on May 1, 2001.
At Lockheed Martin Dr. Ballhaus served as corporate officer and vice president of Engineering and Technology. In this position he was responsible for advancing the company's scientific and engineering capabilities, and for overseeing research and engineering functions.
Prior to his tenure with Lockheed Martin, Dr. Ballhaus served as president of two Martin Marietta businesses, Aero and Naval Systems (Baltimore, 1993-1994), and Civil Space and Communications (Denver, 1990-1993). He also was vice president and program director of Titan IV Centaur operations at Martin Marietta Space Launch Systems (Denver, 1990).
Before joining Martin Marietta, Dr. Ballhaus served as director of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Ames Research Center at Moffett Field and Edwards Air Force Base, California (1984-1989). He also served as acting associate administrator for Aeronautics and Space Technology at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. (1988-1989).
Dr. Ballhaus held several other positions at NASA Ames, including director of Astronautics (1980-1984) and chief of the Applied Computational Aerodynamics Branch (1979). As a research scientist at Ames (1971-1978), Ballhaus published more than 40 papers on computational aerodynamics.
He is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley where he earned a doctorate in engineering and bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering.
Affiliations
Dr. Ballhaus is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the International Academy of Astronautics, and is a fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and the Royal Aeronautical Society. He was president of AIAA for the 1988-1989 term.
Dr. Ballhaus has served on the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board since 1994, and was board co-chair from 1996-1999. He has been elected to serve a three-year term on the Council of the National Academy of Engineering beginning in July 2001. He serves on the National Research Council's Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board and on the council's Engineering and Physical Sciences Division committee, which oversees a number of boards, including the three military boards. Dr. Ballhaus also serves on the Board of Directors of the Space Foundation.
At Charles Stark Draper Laboratory he is one of the 47 "members of the corporation" who oversee the governance of the laboratory. In addition, he is a member of the engineering advisory boards at UC Berkeley, the University of Maryland, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Johns Hopkins University.
Awards and Honors
Dr. Ballhaus' awards and honors include: the presidential ranks of distinguished executive and meritorious executive, conferred by President Ronald Reagan; the NASA Distinguished Service Medal; the Distinguished Engineering Alumnus Award from UC Berkeley; AIAA's Lawrence Sperry Award; the Arthur S. Flemming Award from the Washington, D.C., Junior Chamber of Commerce; the Distinguished Executive Service Award from the Senior Executives Association; and the Eminent Engineer Award from Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society at UC Berkeley.
http://www.aero.org/overview/bios/ballhaus.html
**
President Emeritus Electric Power Research Institute
Dr. Richard E. Balzhiser retired as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in Palo Alto, California in August 1996. He remains active in a President Emeritus role at EPRI in addition to serving on the boards of Reliant Energy, Aerospace, Electrosource, and Nexant. He also serves on advisory boards for the National Renewables Energy Laboratory (NREL), the National Research Council, California's Public Interest Energy Research Program (PIER), and was a member of the two recent PCAST studies requested by the White House.
Dr. Balzhiser joined EPRI in 1973 at the time of its founding as Director of the Fossil Fuel and Advanced Systems Division. He became Vice President of Research and Development in 1979 and Executive Vice President in 1987 before assuming the Presidency in 1988.
Prior to joining EPRI, he served in the White House Office of Science and Technology in 1971-73 as Assistant Director for Energy, Environment and National Resources. Previously, Dr. Balzhiser was Chairman of the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He was Professor of Chemical Engineering from 1960-70 except for 1967-68 when he served as a White House Fellow in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He was twice elected to serve on the Ann Arbor City Council.
Throughout his career, Dr. Balzhiser has served on numerous scientific and technical advisory boards for government agencies, the National Academies and universities. He has published extensively, including two thermodynamic texts and speaks and lectures frequently to utilities, universities and public groups. Dr. Balzhiser was the recipient of the University of Michigan Chemical Engineering Inaugural Alumni Society Merit Award in 1992 and was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1994. He was selected for the Eminent Engineer award by Tau Beta Pi, the National Engineering Honor Society, the Bay Area Engineering Council in February 1995, and recently designated a Fellow in California's Council of Science and Technology.
Dr. Balzhiser received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Chemical Engineering and his M.S. in Nuclear Engineering from the University of Michigan and was an Academic All American on Michigan's 1953 football team.
http://www.ccst.ucr.edu/ccst/about/council/balzhiser.html
**
Dr. Guion S.
Bluford, Jr.
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY:
Dr. Bluford's record of accomplishments includes over 29 years of experience as a senior level business executive, NASA Astronaut, aerospace technical supervisor, aerospace engineer, computational fluid dynamicist, instructor pilot, and tactical fighter pilot. He is the first African American to fly in space (STS-8, the eighth flight of the Space Shuttle) and the first African American to return to space (STS-61A, the 22nd flight of the Space Shuttle; STS-39; the 40th flight of the Space Shuttle; and STS-53, the 52nd flight of the Space Shuttle).
EDUCATION:
B.S., aerospace engineering from the Pennsylvania State University, 1964; M.S., with distinction in aerospace engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology, 1974; Ph.D., aerospace engineering, minor in laser physics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, 1978; M.B.A., University of Houston, Clear Lake, 1987.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
NYMA, Inc. (since July 1993). Vice President/General Manager - Responsible for overall management of all Engineering Services Division programs. Responsible for contract management, new business, indirect costs control, personnel, and implementation of company policies and procedures. Dr. Bluford executes his duties through daily technical status meetings with all direct reports, weekly one-on-one schedule reviews, biweekly cost reviews and ad hoc problem solving meetings. Dr. Bluford reports contract costs, technical status, scheduling, and new business program status with the company Chief Operating Officer on a monthly basis.
United States Air Force (1965 - July 1993)
ASTRONAUT OFFICE, JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (1978 - JULY 1993)
NASA Astronaut (1979 - 1993). Astronaut Office expert and point of contact on Space Station Freedom (SSF) operations. Lead astronaut and supervisor of the Space Station Operations Group in the Space Station Support Office of the Flight Crew Operations Directorate. Responsible for developing and coordinating flight crew positions on various Space Station operational and programmatic issues. Evaluate various Space Station systems and element designs, mock ups, simulations, and production equipment in support of SSF development.
Payload commander on STS-53, which flew in December, 1992 and on STS-39, which flew in May, 1991. Responsible for payload integration, crew training, operational coordination, and on-orbit operations for these Department of Defense missions.
In 1986-1989, Astronaut Office expert and point of contact for all Spacelab missions and all Space Shuttle pallet experiments. Represented the Astronaut Office in mission integration, planning, crew related payload issues, payload definition, and safety-related activities with respect to these payloads.
Mission specialist astronaut on STS-61A, which flew in November, 1985. Led both U.S. and European astronauts in conducting 76 on-orbit experiments in materials processing, life sciences, and fluid physics. Also, he served as a mission specialist astronaut and flight engineer on STS-8, which flew in 1983. This was the first Space Shuttle mission with a night launch and night landing.
NASA Astronaut Candidate (1978 - 1979). Trained in all aspects of Space Shuttle flight operations, Space Shuttle systems, payload operations and integrations, and NASA administrative and engineering procedures. Received specialized training in astronomy, aerodynamics, geology, meteorology, computer science, guidance and navigation, and flight medicine. Flight qualified as a NASA T-38 pilot.
AERODYNAMICS AND AIRFRAME BRANCH, AIR FORCE FLIGHT DYNAMICS LABORATORY, WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE (1975-1978)
Branch Chief, Aerodynamics and Airframe Branch (1977 - 1978). Responsible for identifying, planning, coordinating, and directing the Air Force Flight Dynamics Laboratory research and development programs in subsonic, transonic, and supersonic aerodynamics of aircraft. Supervised 38 scientists and engineers, including 10 Air Force officers and managed an annual budget of $5 million in engineering and research contracts. Managed the Air Force Flight Dynamics Laboratory's Trisonic and Vertical Wind Tunnels. Interfaced several critical Air Force aerodynamic technology development programs with other Air Force organizations, the U.S. Navy, NASA, and with foreign countries. Supervised various Air Force engineering projects including those in such areas as airframe-propulsion integration, non-axisymmetric nozzles, forward swept wings, VSTOL, thrust vectoring and thrust reversing, missile aerodynamics, computational fluid dynamics, and supercritical airfoil design.
Deputy for Advanced Concepts, Aeromechanics Division (1975 - 1976). Responsible for identifying, planning and conducting in-house analytical and experimental investigations in the field of aerodynamics. Conducted research in computational fluid dynamics by solving the Navier-Stokes equations for the fluid flow around thin planar delta wings at supersonic and hypersonic speeds. Wrote three technical papers, made several technical presentations, and completed a doctoral dissertation and Ph.D. degree on the research topic. Served as Inspector General of the Aeromechanics Division.
AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, WRIGHT PATTERSON AFB, DAYTON, OHIO (1972 - 1974)
Graduate Student, Aerospace Engineering. Completed the Master of Science degree program in Aerospace Engineering with distinction. Awarded the Mervin E. Gross Award as class valedictorian. Completed the course work and doctoral examinations for the Ph.D. degree program in Aerospace Engineering.
3630TH FLYING TRAINING WING, SHEPPARD AFB, WICHITA FALLS, TEXAS (1967 - 1972)
Wing Executive Support Officer/T-38 Instructor Pilot
Instructed American and German students in all flying phases of the T-38 Undergraduate Pilot Training Program. Served as administrative officer and school secretary for the Wing.
12TH TACTICAL FIGHTER WING, CAM RANH BAY, VIETNAM (1966 - 1967)
F4C Combat Pilot
Flew air superiority, close air support, and combat air patrol in the F4C tactical fighter aircraft. Completed 144 combat missions including 65 missions over North Vietnam.
SPECIAL HONORS:
Presented the Leadership Award of Phi Delta Kappa (1962); the National Defense Service Medal (1965); Vietnam Campaign Medal (1967); Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with Palm (1967); Vietnam Service Medal I (1967); 10 Air Force Air Medals (1967); 3 Air Force Outstanding Unit Awards (1967, 1970, 1972); the German Air Force Aviation Badge from the Federal Republic of West Germany (1969); T-38 Instructor Pilot of the Month (1970); Air Training Command Outstanding Flight Safety Award (1970); an Air Force Commendation Medal (1972); the Air Force Institute of Technology's Mervin E. Gross Award (1974); Who's Who Among Black Americans 1975-1977; an Air Force Meritorious Service Award (1978); National Society of Black Engineers Distinguished National Scientist Award (1979); three NASA Group Achievement Awards (1980, 1981 and 1989); the Pennsylvania State University Alumni Association's Distinguished Alumni Award (1983), and Alumni Fellows Award (1986); USAF Command Pilot Astronaut Wings (1983); NAACP Image Award (1983); Who's Who in America (1983); Pennsylvania's Distinguished Service Medal (1984); Defense Superior Service Medal; Defense Meritorious Service Medal; the New York City Urban League's Whitney Young Memorial Award; the 1991 Black Engineer of the Year Award; NASA Distinguished Service Medal; NASA Exceptional Service Medal; National Intelligence Medal of Achievement; Legion of Merit; honorary doctorate degrees from Florida A&M University, Texas Southern University, Virginia State University, Morgan State University, Stevens Institute of Technology, Tuskegee Institute, Bowie State College, Thomas Jefferson University, Chicago State University, Georgian Court College, and Drexel University.
http://www.raaheroes.com/astro/bluford.htm
**
Cromer, who spent 32 years in the Air Force, was president of Hughes Space and Communications Company, now Boeing Satellite Systems, from October 1993 to December 1998.
He was commander of the Space Systems Division, now Space and Missile Systems Center, at Los Angeles Air Force Base when he retired from the Air Force in 1991.
http://www.aero.org/news/current/cromer.html
Lieutenant General Donald L. Cromer is commander of Space Systems Division, Air Force Systems Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif. He is responsible for managing the research, design, development and acquisition of space launch, command and control, and satellite systems.
General Cromer was born in Grand Junction, Colo., in 1936, and graduated from Lewis and Clark High School, Spokane, Wash. He attended Washington State University and graduated with a bachelor's degree from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1959. He earned a master's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Denver in 1969. The general completed Squadron Officer School in 1967 and was a distinguished graduate of Air Command and Staff College in 1973. He also attended the executive program at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business and the National Security Management Course at Harvard University.
Upon graduation from the academy in June 1959, he was commissioned in the Air Force. He then was assigned to Strategic Air Command's 549th Strategic Missile Squadron (Atlas D) at Offutt Air Force Base, Neb., as a guidance control officer and deputy missile combat crew commander. From January 1963 to August 1965 he served as an engineer analyst in the 4000th Aerospace Applications Group at Offutt.
The general was assigned to Kennedy Space Center, Cape Canaveral, Fla., and worked with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on the Project Gemini Manned Spacecraft Program as a spacecraft test conductor. In December 1967 he returned to SAC headquarters in the Future Systems Division, Directorate of Plans. From December 1969 to August 1972 General Cromer served as chief of the Payload Branch, Satellite Data Systems Program Office, Space and Missile Systems Organization, Los Angeles Air Force Station (now Los Angeles Air Force Base).
In June 1973 he was assigned to the Directorate of Space, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Research and Development, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C., as program element monitor for the Satellite Data System and Defense Dissemination System programs. He then became project director, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Fort Belvoir, Va.
From May 1977 to June 1978 General Cromer served as deputy for Defense Meteorological Satellite Systems and director of the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program Office, Space Division, Los Angeles Air Force Station. He later was assigned as director of advanced technology for the secretary of the Air Force's Special Projects Office there. In May 1982 he became director of space systems, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Washington, D.C. He returned to Los Angeles Air Force Station in June 1984 as deputy commander for launch and control systems, Space Division, and in January 1985 became vice commander.
In June 1986 General Cromer became commander of the Space and Missile Test Organization, Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. He was responsible for the management of test, launch and on-orbit control activities of Air Force space and ballistic missile systems. He also was responsible for the Western Space and Missile Center at Vandenberg, the Eastern Space and Missile Center at Patrick Air Force Base, Fla., and the Consolidated Space Test Center at Onizuka Air Force Base, Calif. He assumed his present command in June 1988.
The general's military decorations and awards include the Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, Meritorious Service Medal with oak leaf cluster, and Joint Service Commendation Medal. He wears the Master Missile and Master Space badges.
He was promoted to lieutenant general July 1, 1988, with same date of rank.
http://www.af.mil/news/biographies/cromer_dl.html
**
Prof. Hastings is currently Professor ofAeronautics and Astronautics at MIT. He served as Chief Scientist of the Air Force from 1997 to 1999. In his role as Chief Scientist, he served as chief scientific adviser to the chief of staff and the secretary and provided assessments on a wide range of scientific and technical issues affecting the Air Force mission. He led several influential studies on where the Air Force should invest in space, global energy projection and options for a science and technology workforce for the 21st century. He received his Ph.D. in 1980 from MIT in Aeronautics and Astronautics. From 1980-1985 he worked for Physical Sciences Inc. and Oak Ridge National Laboratory in the fields of laser-material interactions and fusion plasma physics. He has some 30 publications in these areas. In 1985 he joined the Aeronautics and Astronautics faculty at MIT as an Assistant Professor. His research has concentrated on issues related to spacecraft- environmental interactions, space propulsion, space systems engineering and space policy. He has published some 50 papers and a book in the field of spacecraft- environment interactions and several papers in space propulsion and space systems. He has led several national studies on government investment in space technology. He is widely recognized for his work on tethers, plasma contactors and high voltage arcing on solar arrays. He has taught courses and seminars in plasma physics, rocket propulsion, advanced space power and propulsion systems, aerospace policy and space systems engineering. His recent research has concentrated on issues of space systems and space policy. He is undertaking research efforts in new design paradigms for space systems, collaborating distributed satellite systems, changing the nature of the space economy and strategic space policy.
He is a Fellow of the AIAA and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics. He is serving as a member of the NASA Space Science Advisory Committee and the National Academy of Engineering Board of Engineering Education. He also served as a member of the National Academy of Engineering's 1996 and 1997 Organizing Committee for Frontiers of Engineering. He served as a member of the NASA Space Station Advisory Committee. He has been a member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board and chaired a major study on the future of space technology for the Air Force. He was also a member and chair of the NRC Committee on Advanced Space Technology as well as served as a member of the NRC Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board. He has served as a member of the DOD DDR&E Technical Area Review of DOD work in space technology. He was a member of theDefense Science Study Group. He is a consultant to the Institute for Defense Analysis and Orbital Sciences Corp. He has consulted for Hughes Space and Communications and Lockheed Martin on satellite interaction issues.
http://web.mit.edu/aeroastro/www/people/hastings/bio.html#E
**
Consultant; former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Space) and Deputy Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.
**
McLuckey, who has 39 years of experience in the aerospace and electronics industries, retired from The Boeing Company in 1998 as president of Space Systems.
He previously served as president and chief executive officer of the Rockwell Aerospace and Defense businesses prior to Boeing's acquisition of these units in December 1996. In 1995 he served as chairman of the board of the American Defense Preparedness Association (ADPA) and was a member of the board of governors of the Aerospace Industries Association.
McLuckey received the NASA Distinguished Service Medal and ADPA's Industrial Leadership Award in 1998. He was presented the Gold Knight of Management Award by the National Management Association's Anaheim/Newport chapter in 1994.
He holds a bachelor of arts degree in business administration from California State University, Fullerton. He was selected by the university's alumni association to receive its 1990 Distinguished Alumni-Career Achievement Award, and in 1995 he was recognized as the school's Distinguished Alumnus of the Year.
http://www.aero.org/news/current/new-trustees-12-00.html
**
Gen. Thomas S.
Moorman, Jr (USAF, Ret.)
General Moorman is a Partner in Booz-Allen Hamilton (1998 to present). He also serves as a member of the Board of Trustees for The Aerospace Corporation, is an Outside Director on the Board of Smiths Industries and is a member of the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee. He entered the United States Air Force in 1962 and served for 35 years. General Moorman served as Commander of Air Force Space Command (1990-92). At the time of his retirement in 1997, General Moorman was Vice Chief of Staff, United States Air Force. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He also served as a commissioner for the second Rumsfeld Commission.
http://www.defenselink.mil/pubs/spaceattach.pdf
**
Consultant; former Vice President, Navy Projects, and Vice President and General Manager of Magna Plant Operations, Hercules Aerospace Company.
**
Ann C. Petersen,
Esq.
Attorney; former General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force; former partner, law firm of Wildman, Harrold, Allen & Dixon.
**
Professor Emeritus and former Director of the Optical Sciences Center at the University of Arizona.
The University of Arizona: Professor Emeritus, Optical Sciences Center, 1992-date; Professor, 1969-1992; Director, 1984-1992
Itek Corporation: Director, Advanced Technology Labs, 1968-1969; Manager, Optical Systems, Engineering Department, 1967-1968; Staff Physicist and Senior Lens Designer, 1959-1966
University of Rochester: Graduate Assistant, 1954-1959
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, Goddard Award, Gold Medal
National Academy of Engineering, Member
Air Force Scientific Advisory Board, Member, 1986-1990
Aerospace Corporation, Member, Board of Trustees, 1985-date
Optical Society of America, President, 1985; President-Elect, 1984; Board of Directors; Fellow
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, President, 1979-1980; Fellow
Board of Governors
Lens Design Technical Group Chair
Aerospace and Astronomical Optics Technical Group Chair
Use of computers for testing and optical design; metrication of large optical systems; design of synthetic-aperture optical systems; analysis and design of unobscured-aperture optical systems; optical fabrication and test methods; optical data storage technology.
http://www.optics.arizona.edu/Faculty/Resumes/Shannon.htm
**
Maj. Gen. Donald
W. Shepperd (USAF, Ret.)
Major General Donald W. Shepperd (USAF, Ret.) is president of The Shepperd Group, Inc. He performs independent consulting on defense, strategic planning, executive leadership, information technology and visiting and preparation of executive teams for the 21st century. He is a well known speaker and author. He retired in 1998 from the Pentagon as head of the Air National Guard where he commanded over 110,000 personnel, 1400 aircraft, 88 flying units, and 250 support units spread throughout the 54 states and territories. He oversaw preparation and execution of a $4.2B yearly budget. He worked daily with all the Air Force Major Commands and Congress. He testified to Congress in support of Air budgets. He served as part of the Air Force Council and was on the Board of Directors of the Air Force Long Range Strategic Plan. He was the architect of the highly successful "CyberGuard", a program to bring the Air National Guard into the world of high technology, embedded information systems and fiberoptic networks with distributed communications and distance learning capabilities. He is a combat veteran who flew 247 fighter combat missions in Vietnam. General Shepperd is a military analyst for CNN and provides military commentary for ABC radio. He has recently been seen and heard providing commentary on the military aspects of the war against terrorism in Afghanistan. He serves on several boards and was an ad hoc member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board. He is a graduate of the United States Air Force Academy class of 1962 and holds a Masters degree in Personnel Management.
General Shepperd was Air Commander of the 102d FW at Otis ANGB from 1987-1989. At Otis he flew the F-106 and the F-15.
http://www.ngama.org/conferences/state/archive/2002/mg_donald_sheppard_biography.htm
**
Jeffrey H. Smith,
Esq.
Partner, law firm of Arnold & Porter; former General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency; former General Counsel, Senate Armed Services Committee.
Areas of Expertise:
Public Policy and Legislative
Government Contracts
International
International Trade
International Litigation & Arbitration
National Security Law and Policy
Jeffrey Smith is the Responsible Partner for the firm's public policy and legislative practice group. He also practices in the government contracts and international practice groups. In October 1996, he rejoined the firm after serving as General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency from May 1995 to September 1996. In May of 1993, Secretary of Defense Perry appointed Mr. Smith to the congressionally mandated Commission to Review the Roles and Missions of the Armed Services. Previously, he chaired the Joint Security Commission established by Secretary of Defense Aspin and Director of Central Intelligence Woolsey to review security policy and practices in the defense and intelligence communities. In late 1992 and early 1993, he served as the Chief of the Clinton Transition Team at the Department of Defense.
Prior to joining Arnold & Porter, Mr. Smith served as the General Counsel of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He also was Senator Sam Nunn's designee to the Iran/Contra Committee and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Mr. Smith was the Senior Counsel for the Armed Services Committee when much of the present legislation affecting government procurement was enacted by Congress. Prior to working for the Senate, he was an Assistant Legal Adviser at the State Department. Earlier, as an Army Judge Advocate General officer, he served as the Pentagon's lawyer for the Panama Canal negotiations.
A 1966 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and a 1971 graduate of the University of Michigan Law School, Mr. Smith was appointed by President Clinton in June 1993 to the Board of Visitors of the Military Academy. He is a member of the Committee of Visitors of the University of Michigan Law School. He is also a member of the boards of trustees of Aerospace Corporation and the Henry L. Stimson Center, and serves as General Counsel of the Goldwater Foundation. He has lectured and written on national security and international law, and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Mr. Smith is admitted to the District of Columbia Bar.
Education:
J.D., 1971, University of Michigan Law School
B.S., 1966, United States Military Academy
http://www.arnoldandporter.com/tableset.cfm?text=bio&gif=attorneys&toolbar=attorneys&attorney_id=394
**
President and Chief Executive Officer of Riverside Consulting Group. She has specialized in all aspects of human factors and sensor design work. In her previous position of President and Chief Operating Officer of Geo-Centers, her projects included a ground- penetrating radar system capable of detecting landmines. Ms. Street has worked for several companies over her 27 year career including Battelle Memorial Institute, The Parsons Corporation, MK-Ferguson Company and Fluor Engineers Inc. to name a few. She is a Registered Professional Engineer and holds a Master of Science (Ocean Engineering) and Bachelor of Science (Metallurgy and Materials Science). She serves as a Board of Trustees member for Aerospace Corporation and serves in various alumni capacities at Massachusetts Institute of Technology including the Alumni Fund Board. Ms. Street is nominated to this committee because of her expertise in human factors and understanding of several aspects of anti- personnel landmines.
http://www4.nas.edu/webcr.nsf/CommitteeDisplay/BAST-J-99-03-A?OpenDocument
**
Gen. John H.
Tilelli, Jr. (USA, Ret.)
General John H. Tilelli, Jr., retired on January 31, 2000 from the United States Army after over 30 years of service. He is currently employed with Cypress International Inc. in Alexandria, Virginia, as President and Chief Operating Officer.
General Tilelli was raised in Holmdel, New Jersey. A 1963 graduate of Pennsylvania Military College, now Widener University, he received a degree in Economics and was commissioned as an Armor Officer. He attended the Armor Officer Basic and Advance Courses and Airborne School. He was awarded a Master's Degree in Administration from Lehigh University in 1972 and graduated from the United States Army War College in 1983. General Tilelli is the recipient of an honorary doctorate in Business Management from Widener University in May 1996, and an honorary doctorate of law from the University of Maryland.
During General Tilelli's last active duty assignment as Commander-in-Chief of the United Nations Command, Republic of Korea/United States Combined Forces Command/United States Forces Korea, he commanded the largest standing joint and coalition force in the world comprising of over 650,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines who led to the theater's campaign strategy and revitalized Korea's automated command and control and equipment modernization. During his tour in Korea, General Tilelli advised and made recommendations to foreign heads of state, Ministers of Defense and Foreign Affairs and United Nations leadership regarding national security, regional policy and planning.
Upon his retirement from the United States Army as Commander-in-Chief of the United Nations Command, Republic of Korea/United States Combined Forces/United States Forces Korea, General Tilelli was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of the USO Worldwide Operations. He had the responsibility for the operation of over 122 USO operations around the world in support of our servicemen and women and their families, raising the donor funds to allow continued support by the American people of over $20 million/year; building a $100 million endowment and managing and leading 600 employees and 12,000 volunteers. He did all this in close coordination with the senior leadership of the Department of Defense. General Tilelli also participated and led many senior panels related to defense issues since his retirement.
General Tilelli's military career includes serving as the Vice Chief of Staff of the Army and the Army's Deputy Chief of Operations during which he led the Army's vision to the Army of the 21st Century and implemented reforms in acquisition and procurement. His career included many command assignments including Commander of United States Army Forces Command where he improved readiness of all United States Army Forces (active and reserve) and was responsible for the Army's homeland security function. As the Commander, Seventh Army Training Command and Combat Maneuver Training Center, he revolutionized training in Europe. As Commander of the 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Texas, he trained, deployed and fought the Division in Operation Desert Shield and Desert Storm.
General Tilelli's staff assignments include three tours at the Pentagon: Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Research, Development and Acquisition; the Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans in the Office of the Chief of Staff of the Army; and later promoted to Lieutenant General as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans, Department of the Army. His responsibilities in all assignments spanned geopolitics, programming and budgeting, congressional affairs, organizational design, development of training methodologies and, of course, leadership and management of large organizations with multiple functions and missions.
General Tilelli's military career includes two tours in Vietnam and four tours in Germany. His combat tours include assignments as a Company Commander and District Senior Advisor in Vietnam and Commanding General of 1st Cavalry Division during Desert Shield and Desert Storm. In Germany, he served as a Troop Commander and S-1 in the 2d Squadron, 2d Armored Cavalry Regiment; Chief of Staff, 1st Armored Division in Ansbach; Regimental Commander, 2d Armored Cavalry Regiment in Nuremberg; and Chief of Staff, VII (U.S.) Corps in Stuttgart.
General Tilelli's awards and decorations include The Defense Distinguished Service Medal, The Army's Distinguished Service Medal (with three Oak Leaf Clusters), The Navy's Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal with "V" Device, Bronze Star Medal (with Oak Leaf Cluster), Meritorious Service Medal (with three Oak Leaf Clusters), Air Medal, Army Commendation Medal (with two Oak Leaf Clusters), Combat Infantryman Badge, Parachutist Badge, Office of the Secretary of Defense Identification Badge, Joint Chiefs of Staff Identification Badge and Army Staff Identification Badge.
http://ksgnotes1.harvard.edu/BCSIA/BCSIA.nsf/bios/TilelliJrJohn
He is also a director at Raytheon.
**
President, The Wexler Group; former member of the House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.
Wexler & Walker’s Chairman is perhaps the best political and policy strategist and tactician in Washington. We are not the only ones who think so. Charles Cook, a widely respected political analyst, wrote while Bob Walker served in the Congress, “he has been the best Republican tactician they’ve got.” And the prestigious publication The National Journal said of Walker, “Indeed as much as anyone, he is the father of the revolution that led to the Republican victory in 1994.”
Today, Wexler & Walker’s clients get the advantage of Walker’s unparalleled insight and close relationships with national power brokers. His former colleagues in the congressional leadership and top officials in the Bush Administration regularly call on him for outside counsel. He is seen as an expert in science, space, technology and energy issues and a master of legislative tactics and procedure. During the 2000 presidential campaign, Walker served as the Bush advisor on science, space and technology.
In August 2001, Bob Walker was appointed by President Bush to be Chairman of the Presidential Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industries.
As a Member of Congress from Pennsylvania’s 16th District, Walker served much of his twenty-year career in the Republican leadership as Chief Deputy Whip, Chairman of the Leadership, and Speaker Pro Tempore. In 1995, he was selected as Chairman of the Science Committee and Vice Chairman of the Budget Committee. And throughout his congressional tenure he was probably best known for his role as the GOP floor manager in the House.
As a lecturer, writer and commentator, Walker appears regularly on Fox News, CNBC and PBS, among others, and lectures at the Brookings Institution, the Georgetown University Government Affairs Institute, the Kennedy School at Harvard University, the Cato Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Woodrow Wilson Center and at several colleges and universities. He is called upon to address national and international technology forums, and his latest book, Inside the House, co-authored with several other former Congressmen, was released in 2001.
In 1996, Bob Walker became the first sitting House Member to be awarded NASA’s highest honor, the Distinguished Service Medal. He has stayed involved in space policy as a board member of the Aerospace Corporation, SpaceDev, and the Space Foundation. In addition, he is Chairman of the Board of DCH Technology and serves on the advisory board of the IMAX Corporation. His community outreach work includes the boards of the U.S. Capitol Historical Society and the American League of Lobbyists.
Prior to his election to Congress in 1976, Walker was a high school teacher and a congressional aide. He holds a B.S. in Education from Millersville University in Pennsylvania, an M.A. in Political Science from the University of Delaware, and an Honorary Doctor of Laws from Franklin and Marshall College. His avocations include golf, tennis and racecar driving. He and his wife Sue maintain homes in East Petersburg, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.
http://www.wexlergroup.com/walker.htm
