# The Hidden Forces Behind Syria's President Bashar al-Assad

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_syria12.htm

by State of the Nation
September 06, 2015 from StateOfTheNation Website
- Syria's Bashar al-Assad -
Secret Back Story Reveals
why the West Cannot Topple
his Government
Why is the Syrian President relentlessly demonized by the Anglo-American Axis? Just like President Vladimir Putin of Russia, Syria's President Bashar Hafez al-Assad has been the victim of unrelenting character assassination and false reporting by the Western Mainstream Media (MSM).
Many of the MSM outlets throughout the Anglo-American Axis (AAA - see 'Glossary' at page's end) have published one false story after another in a concerted effort to turn the entire world against him.
And for what? And why are they so determined to overthrow one of the very few righteous leaders in the Middle East?
And for what?
And why are they so determined to overthrow one of the very few righteous leaders in the Middle East?
The true answers to this question are as profound as they are far-reaching.
On a quite superficial level, Assad represents the proverbial skunk at the garden party. The Anglo-American Axis has a set agenda and predetermined schedule; and, they will not let any nation or political leader get in its way. A trained physician like Assad was thought to be the least of their (AAA) troubles during the choreographed Arab Spring events.
After all, doctors everywhere take the sacred vow known as the Hippocratic Oath - "First, do no harm." The Israeli-Franco-Anglo-American power-brokers, who have controlled the destiny of most of the Middle Eastern nations for decades, have entered a new and desperate phase of conquest. Unfortunately for the entire Mideast, that desperation manifested as the fomenting of a number of revolutionary Arab Spring events.
The resulting widespread death and destruction reflects just how determined the AAA is to advance their misguided agenda. Whereas each of these engineered protest movements was initiated by the agents of the AAA, not all of them were entirely successful. While the CIA, MI6 and MOSSAD may have most of the Middle East hardwired by way of information technology, many of the indigenous peoples still remain off their grid, to varying degrees of course.
Nevertheless, they still expected Assad to simply resign after so many other countries had succumbed to the CIA-directed Facebook revolutions and civil wars via Twitter. President Assad, they have come to find out, is a completely different kind of being. Not only is he not of their ilk, his very presence on the Mideast geopolitical chessboard causes them great consternation.
Why? Because President Assad has a conscience in contrast to the many other leaders who clearly govern without any conscience whatsoever.
Of course, the AAA leadership has demonstrated time and again that it operates without any discernible conscience. So devoid of a moral compass are the American, French, and British invaders that Assad's continued leadership makes them all look bad VERY BAD...
Hence, their compulsion to demonize him at every turn. Because of the strategic geopolitical importance of Syria, the AAA can no longer tolerate such an honest peace-broker or righteous leader in such a vital location and position of leadership. Most are completely unaware, but President Assad is as just and principled as they come anywhere in the world today, particularly in the Mideast.
The only way that the al-Assad family was able to stay in power since 1970 (45 consecutive years) was because of the family trait for fairness and tolerance.
Four Major Reasons for Assad's Upright Posture Towards Governance
There are various reasons for President Assad's popular government and respected leadership style among the Syrian people.
Four of these have become particularly invaluable during this time of great trial and tribulation for the nation. Without the following key relationships and forms of mutual support in the life of President Assad, it would have been unlikely that he could have lasted this long.
Therefore, none of these vital associations should be underestimated in any way.
Reason #1 - The Spiritual Foundation of Bashar's Alawite Faith First and foremost there is Bashar al-Assad's unwavering dedication to his family's spiritual traditions and religious faith. Being an ardent practitioner of the Alawite religion like his father and forefathers before him, Assad has drawn great strength from this mystical and tolerant branch of Shia Islam. He went into the medical profession and trained as an ophthalmologist because of his desire to serve the Syrian people. Also known as Alawis, Alawites, "are a prominent religious group, centered in Syria, who follow a branch of the Twelver school of Shia Islam but with syncretistic elements."[1] Because his religious community had suffered religious persecution and many other indignities over generations prior to his father's presidency, he is quite sensitive to the need for religious tolerance. Particularly within the context of Syria's historical religious diversity, did the Alawites rise to provide the cohesive leadership necessary to maintain the peace and mutual acceptance. This remarkable achievement occurred over decades when many neighboring nations suffered the fate of one failed government after another. For those who are cognizant of the well-known Hindu religious tolerance in India, Alawites are quite similar. They not only believe in reincarnation as in the East, they have also absorbed many other aspects of the predominant religions in Syria especially those found in Islam and Christianity. Because of their syncretic approach in both philosophy and practice, Alawis have evolved into a genuinely tolerant spiritual community who actively cultivate a climate of mutual respect. However, it is the mystical aspects of their spiritual practice which has earned them the respect of the Syrian people. Because they are known to walk their talk, they have been trusted to lead as they have done for almost 5 decades. Alawites consider themselves to be Muslims, although some Sunnis dispute that they are. Alawite doctrine incorporates Gnostic, neo-Platonic, Islamic, Christian and other elements and has, therefore, been described as syncretistic. Alawite beliefs have never been confirmed by their modern religious authorities. Alawites tend to conceal their beliefs (taqiyya) due to historical persecution. Some tenets of the faith are secret, known only to a select few; therefore, they have been described as a mystical sect. [1] The final point here is that the people of Syria were quite content to be governed by a disproportionately smaller number of Alawites throughout government. In spite of an overwhelming Sunni majority the arrangement worked out well even while there was so much conflict in countries all around them. However, Assad knew that the very delicate balance of power could be upset at any time. And so it would be by those powerful AAA nations who would deftly utilize their 'divide and rule' MO whenever it suits their geopolitical purposes, especially their pursuit of oil reserves. Reason # 2 - The Strength and Support of His Wife Asma al-Assad As is often the case, the Assad marriage reveals how a strong woman often exists behind every great leader. In the person of his regal and supportive wife did Bashar Assad find the perfect "power behind his throne". From a strictly political standpoint, she was raised in a powerful Sunni family which endeared her to the Sunni majority of Syria. Because of his choice of a Sunni wife, President Assad was seen as a leader who sincerely lived his authentic acceptance of every religious orientation found within the boundaries of Syria. Asma al-Assad's professional relationship with her husband was especially exemplary for the woman of Syria to see and experience. She not only sought to help liberate her gender all over the nation, the First Lady also served as a glowing example throughout much of Islamic society. Her various unprecedented and courageous initiatives to spread enlightenment and empowerment in every sphere of Syrian life were recognized by many for their efficacy and magnanimity. Asma al-Bashar has occupied a unique position in the highly patriarchal societies of the Middle East. To be presented side-by-side with her husband in her capacity of First lady, as she often is, has provided the male-dominated Arabic and Islamic culture with a new model of leadership. While President Assad is obviously in charge, he has given his wife a special role in the Administration's various mandates to address a whole host of social, cultural and religious issues. Post Arab Spring, Asma al-Assad has taken on much greater responsibility because of the epic disaster that has been left in the wake of the manufactured civil war by the Western powers. The Franco-Anglo-American machinations, which produced this terrible tragedy, have posed formidable obstacles for President Assad and his wife. The warmongering has been so relentless and intense that only by the "grace of Allah" has the Syrian First Family weathered one harrowing storm after another. Hafez Assad Reason #3 - Bashar Assad Received Excellent Training and Guidance from His Father The loyal and genuine support from the Syrian people, which the Assad family has enjoyed for nearly 5 decades, began with Hafez al-Assad. This was a man who is considered to be one of Syria's greatest sons having taken power in a bloodless coup during a particularly delicate and volatile period of Syrian history. Had he not taken such a decisive stand at that critical point, Syria could have easily erupted into a full-blown civil war driven by religious strife. Assad's rule, "began with an immediate and considerable advantage: the government he displaced was so detested that any alternative came as a relief." He first tried to establish national unity, which he felt had been lost under the leadership of Aflaq and Jadid. Assad differed from his predecessor at the outset, visiting local villages and hearing citizen complaints. [2] A humble and practical leadership style is what distinguished Hafez al-Assad from the beginning of his presidency. Although his son Bashar was trained as a physician who had no political aspirations, he followed in his father's footsteps quite naturally. Trained as an ophthalmologist, Bashar had the sensitivity and temperament of a very reluctant leader at first. However, he quickly realized that he could not shirk the solemn responsibility which destiny had brought to him and his wife. Because of his egalitarian approach to governance and genuine concern for the cohesion of Syria, he was quickly accepted by the people as an ideal replacement for his father. The Syrian people especially embraced his socially dynamic and progressive wife Asma and received them with open arms. They became an exemplary power couple who were admired for their genuine dedication to the interests of every Syrian citizen. It is especially the Assad family's extraordinary religious tolerance and their cultivation of a truly ecumenical atmosphere throughout all of Syria that has set them apart. When compared to most of the other Muslim Arab countries, Syria has experienced a high degree of acceptance and camaraderie among a diverse number of religious communities. This critical personal and family inclination toward religious tolerance has been actively translated into public policy; subsequently, all of Syrian society was distinguished by its remarkable religious tolerance and mutual acceptance. The following excerpt quotes Asma al-Assad from an interview conducted just before the recent civil war was instigated by the Anglo-American Axis. This revealing and laudatory article was quickly removed from the internet by its publisher because of the positive portrayal it painted of the Bashar family, particularly that of Asma's enlightened stewardship. Back in the car, I ask what religion the orphans are. "It's not relevant," says Asma al-Assad. "Let me try to explain it to you. That church is a part of my heritage because it's a Syrian church. The Umayyad Mosque is the third-most-important holy Muslim site, but within the mosque is the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. We all kneel in the mosque in front of the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. That's how religions live together in Syria - a way that I have never seen anywhere else in the world. We live side by side, and have historically. All the religions and cultures that have passed through these lands - the Armenians, Islam, Christianity, the Umayyads, the Ottomans - make up who I am." [3] Reason #4 - Russia, Iran, and the BRICS-aligned Nations stand with Assad Russia has been ardently opposed to all of the bellicose meddling in the internal affairs of sovereign nations. President Putin has stated on numerous occasions that there needs to be a new global platform of international relationships built on the foundation of implicit respect for national sovereignty. He has expressed that the world community of nations is obligated to reject the outside interference of those powerful nations which routinely commit actions of naked aggression. In fact, Russia, China and India have repeatedly singled out the USA and UK for their outright interference in the affairs of countries large and small, rich and poor. Toward that end they have proclaimed their support for Syria's only legitimate government under Bashar al-Assad. Russia has sent sophisticated anti-ship missiles to Syria Putin has even supplied Syria with sophisticated weaponry which he would only do in the case of unprovoked acts of aggression being systematically being perpetrated against the Syrian people. The AAA does not yet understand the seriousness of the war crimes that they have committed in Syria. Each act of violence against the people and their property has been recorded. Every act of wanton destruction and needless killing has been catalogued for the purposes of accountability. Russia and their allies are watching the conduct of ISIS and how they are supplied and financed. It is common knowledge that the Israeli-Anglo-American intelligence services have coordinated the attacks on Syria from the very beginning of this manufactured civil war. At the end of the day, the AAA will be held responsible for their actions and inactions which directly contributed to this terrible tragedy. The Syrian Civil War has created the greatest European immigration crisis of the modern era. Should the AAA continue their imperialistic designs against the Assad Administration and the people of Syria, they will bring upon themselves the wrath of the Russia bear.
Reason #1 - The Spiritual Foundation of Bashar's Alawite Faith First and foremost there is Bashar al-Assad's unwavering dedication to his family's spiritual traditions and religious faith.
Being an ardent practitioner of the Alawite religion like his father and forefathers before him, Assad has drawn great strength from this mystical and tolerant branch of Shia Islam. He went into the medical profession and trained as an ophthalmologist because of his desire to serve the Syrian people. Also known as Alawis, Alawites,
"are a prominent religious group, centered in Syria, who follow a branch of the Twelver school of Shia Islam but with syncretistic elements."[1]
Because his religious community had suffered religious persecution and many other indignities over generations prior to his father's presidency, he is quite sensitive to the need for religious tolerance.
Particularly within the context of Syria's historical religious diversity, did the Alawites rise to provide the cohesive leadership necessary to maintain the peace and mutual acceptance.
This remarkable achievement occurred over decades when many neighboring nations suffered the fate of one failed government after another. For those who are cognizant of the well-known Hindu religious tolerance in India, Alawites are quite similar.
They not only believe in reincarnation as in the East, they have also absorbed many other aspects of the predominant religions in Syria especially those found in Islam and Christianity.
Because of their syncretic approach in both philosophy and practice, Alawis have evolved into a genuinely tolerant spiritual community who actively cultivate a climate of mutual respect.
However, it is the mystical aspects of their spiritual practice which has earned them the respect of the Syrian people.
Because they are known to walk their talk, they have been trusted to lead as they have done for almost 5 decades.
Alawites consider themselves to be Muslims, although some Sunnis dispute that they are. Alawite doctrine incorporates Gnostic, neo-Platonic, Islamic, Christian and other elements and has, therefore, been described as syncretistic. Alawite beliefs have never been confirmed by their modern religious authorities. Alawites tend to conceal their beliefs (taqiyya) due to historical persecution. Some tenets of the faith are secret, known only to a select few; therefore, they have been described as a mystical sect. [1]
The final point here is that the people of Syria were quite content to be governed by a disproportionately smaller number of Alawites throughout government. In spite of an overwhelming Sunni majority the arrangement worked out well even while there was so much conflict in countries all around them.
However, Assad knew that the very delicate balance of power could be upset at any time.
And so it would be by those powerful AAA nations who would deftly utilize their 'divide and rule' MO whenever it suits their geopolitical purposes, especially their pursuit of oil reserves.
Reason # 2 - The Strength and Support of His Wife Asma al-Assad As is often the case, the Assad marriage reveals how a strong woman often exists behind every great leader. In the person of his regal and supportive wife did Bashar Assad find the perfect "power behind his throne".
From a strictly political standpoint, she was raised in a powerful Sunni family which endeared her to the Sunni majority of Syria.
Because of his choice of a Sunni wife, President Assad was seen as a leader who sincerely lived his authentic acceptance of every religious orientation found within the boundaries of Syria. Asma al-Assad's professional relationship with her husband was especially exemplary for the woman of Syria to see and experience.
She not only sought to help liberate her gender all over the nation, the First Lady also served as a glowing example throughout much of Islamic society. Her various unprecedented and courageous initiatives to spread enlightenment and empowerment in every sphere of Syrian life were recognized by many for their efficacy and magnanimity. Asma al-Bashar has occupied a unique position in the highly patriarchal societies of the Middle East.
To be presented side-by-side with her husband in her capacity of First lady, as she often is, has provided the male-dominated Arabic and Islamic culture with a new model of leadership. While President Assad is obviously in charge, he has given his wife a special role in the Administration's various mandates to address a whole host of social, cultural and religious issues. Post Arab Spring, Asma al-Assad has taken on much greater responsibility because of the epic disaster that has been left in the wake of the manufactured civil war by the Western powers.
The Franco-Anglo-American machinations, which produced this terrible tragedy, have posed formidable obstacles for President Assad and his wife.
The warmongering has been so relentless and intense that only by the "grace of Allah" has the Syrian First Family weathered one harrowing storm after another.
Hafez Assad
Reason #3 - Bashar Assad Received Excellent Training and Guidance from His Father The loyal and genuine support from the Syrian people, which the Assad family has enjoyed for nearly 5 decades, began with Hafez al-Assad.
This was a man who is considered to be one of Syria's greatest sons having taken power in a bloodless coup during a particularly delicate and volatile period of Syrian history.
Had he not taken such a decisive stand at that critical point, Syria could have easily erupted into a full-blown civil war driven by religious strife. Assad's rule,
"began with an immediate and considerable advantage: the government he displaced was so detested that any alternative came as a relief." He first tried to establish national unity, which he felt had been lost under the leadership of Aflaq and Jadid. Assad differed from his predecessor at the outset, visiting local villages and hearing citizen complaints. [2]
"began with an immediate and considerable advantage: the government he displaced was so detested that any alternative came as a relief."
He first tried to establish national unity, which he felt had been lost under the leadership of Aflaq and Jadid. Assad differed from his predecessor at the outset, visiting local villages and hearing citizen complaints. [2]
A humble and practical leadership style is what distinguished Hafez al-Assad from the beginning of his presidency.
Although his son Bashar was trained as a physician who had no political aspirations, he followed in his father's footsteps quite naturally.
Trained as an ophthalmologist, Bashar had the sensitivity and temperament of a very reluctant leader at first. However, he quickly realized that he could not shirk the solemn responsibility which destiny had brought to him and his wife. Because of his egalitarian approach to governance and genuine concern for the cohesion of Syria, he was quickly accepted by the people as an ideal replacement for his father. The Syrian people especially embraced his socially dynamic and progressive wife Asma and received them with open arms.
They became an exemplary power couple who were admired for their genuine dedication to the interests of every Syrian citizen. It is especially the Assad family's extraordinary religious tolerance and their cultivation of a truly ecumenical atmosphere throughout all of Syria that has set them apart. When compared to most of the other Muslim Arab countries, Syria has experienced a high degree of acceptance and camaraderie among a diverse number of religious communities.
This critical personal and family inclination toward religious tolerance has been actively translated into public policy; subsequently, all of Syrian society was distinguished by its remarkable religious tolerance and mutual acceptance. The following excerpt quotes Asma al-Assad from an interview conducted just before the recent civil war was instigated by the Anglo-American Axis.
This revealing and laudatory article was quickly removed from the internet by its publisher because of the positive portrayal it painted of the Bashar family, particularly that of Asma's enlightened stewardship.
Back in the car, I ask what religion the orphans are. "It's not relevant," says Asma al-Assad. "Let me try to explain it to you. That church is a part of my heritage because it's a Syrian church. The Umayyad Mosque is the third-most-important holy Muslim site, but within the mosque is the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. We all kneel in the mosque in front of the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. That's how religions live together in Syria - a way that I have never seen anywhere else in the world. We live side by side, and have historically. All the religions and cultures that have passed through these lands - the Armenians, Islam, Christianity, the Umayyads, the Ottomans - make up who I am." [3]
Back in the car, I ask what religion the orphans are.
"It's not relevant," says Asma al-Assad. "Let me try to explain it to you. That church is a part of my heritage because it's a Syrian church. The Umayyad Mosque is the third-most-important holy Muslim site, but within the mosque is the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. We all kneel in the mosque in front of the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. That's how religions live together in Syria - a way that I have never seen anywhere else in the world. We live side by side, and have historically. All the religions and cultures that have passed through these lands - the Armenians, Islam, Christianity, the Umayyads, the Ottomans - make up who I am." [3]
"It's not relevant," says Asma al-Assad.
"Let me try to explain it to you. That church is a part of my heritage because it's a Syrian church. The Umayyad Mosque is the third-most-important holy Muslim site, but within the mosque is the tomb of Saint John the Baptist.
We all kneel in the mosque in front of the tomb of Saint John the Baptist. That's how religions live together in Syria - a way that I have never seen anywhere else in the world. We live side by side, and have historically.
All the religions and cultures that have passed through these lands - the Armenians, Islam, Christianity, the Umayyads, the Ottomans - make up who I am." [3]
Reason #4 - Russia, Iran, and the BRICS-aligned Nations stand with Assad Russia has been ardently opposed to all of the bellicose meddling in the internal affairs of sovereign nations.
President Putin has stated on numerous occasions that there needs to be a new global platform of international relationships built on the foundation of implicit respect for national sovereignty.
He has expressed that the world community of nations is obligated to reject the outside interference of those powerful nations which routinely commit actions of naked aggression. In fact, Russia, China and India have repeatedly singled out the USA and UK for their outright interference in the affairs of countries large and small, rich and poor. Toward that end they have proclaimed their support for Syria's only legitimate government under Bashar al-Assad.
Russia has sent sophisticated anti-ship missiles to Syria
Putin has even supplied Syria with sophisticated weaponry which he would only do in the case of unprovoked acts of aggression being systematically being perpetrated against the Syrian people. The AAA does not yet understand the seriousness of the war crimes that they have committed in Syria. Each act of violence against the people and their property has been recorded. Every act of wanton destruction and needless killing has been catalogued for the purposes of accountability.
Russia and their allies are watching the conduct of ISIS and how they are supplied and financed. It is common knowledge that the Israeli-Anglo-American intelligence services have coordinated the attacks on Syria from the very beginning of this manufactured civil war. At the end of the day, the AAA will be held responsible for their actions and inactions which directly contributed to this terrible tragedy. The Syrian Civil War has created the greatest European immigration crisis of the modern era.
Should the AAA continue their imperialistic designs against the Assad Administration and the people of Syria, they will bring upon themselves the wrath of the Russia bear.
Divide and Conquer - MO of the CIA, MI6 and MOSSAD The primary geopolitical strategy employed by the Anglo-American Axis over the past 100 years throughout the entire Middle East has been that of divide and conquer.
Using the intelligence agencies and secret services of Israel, the AAA has been able to sow seeds of discontent among the Sunnis and/or the Shiites in any country its wishes to control.
The fabricated revolutions and fake protest movements of the Arab Spring are perfect examples of this outright subversion in action by the AAA.
to watch video, click above image...
As always, the AAA leadership has cynically incited these religious rivalries in Syria, which have existed for centuries, between the Sunnis and the Shiites, and between the Christians and Muslims.
There have been many instances where Sunnis and Shiites have been able to peacefully coexist. Nevertheless, a well-timed false flag attack or assassination can quickly undermine that peace.
How many times has a single MOSSAD-trained suicide bomber turned a town or community into a conflagration? When the balance of power is forever tipping to one side or another, it is very easy for outside forces to destabilize any nation with significant Sunni and Shiite populations. Even when one or the other exists as a small minority is the divide and rule strategy employed with great effect.
In this manner has the current civil war in Syria been fastidiously engineered by the AAA and it many proxies.
After stoking the flames of the long-burning fire of religious differences outside of Syria, they have been methodically exported into that country. In this fashion has the whole nation been turned into a slow-motion holocaust. President Assad is well aware of the wily and subversive ways of the Western powers.
The USA France Great Britain Israel, in particular,
The USA
France
Great Britain
Israel, in particular,
...have revealed their seditious agenda from the start of the Syrian Civil War.
Despite the utilization of every stratagem in the CIA playbook, the AAA ruling cabal has been unsuccessful at toppling Assad. Such is the allegiance of the Syrian people to their leader who was thrust into the presidency more by fate than by the typical dynastic designs.
What really happened in Syria since 2011? Syria is one of those extremely unfortunate countries that is located in the wrong place at the wrong time.
For the uninitiated, any nation that occupies a highly strategic position on the global geopolitical chessboard is vulnerable to AAA-instigated acts of aggression.
Syria is not only in the middle of a region that possesses valuable oil and gas reserves, there are those who would like to control their transport over Syrian soil. Syria has also enjoyed the support of Russia and Iran throughout the many unlawful attempts by the AAA to violently overthrow Assad's legitimate government.
Russia's Mediterranean naval facility in Syria located at Tartus provides Moscow with a vital base from which to deter other illicit acts of AAA aggression in the Mideast.
President Vladimir Putin's recent decision to put a Russian military footprint on Syrian soil is an indication of his commitment to Assad's continued leadership role.
For it is certain that any USA-chosen presidential replacement would surely terminate Russia's naval base lease, thus depriving them of an essential deterrent to Western warmongering. Bashar al-Assad's independence has long been viewed with suspicion by the AAA leadership, which was tolerated until 2011.
Under Hillary Clinton's State Department were the plans hatched to unleash the CIA-directed Arab Spring on Syrian soil which was ultimately directed at overthrowing Assad any way they could.
However, the stubbornness of the righteous regime in Damascus was grossly underestimated as the conflict approaches its fifth year.
The Western creation of ISIS stands as a glaring testament to how desperate the USA & Company is to control every square inch of the Middle East, especially the oil and gas reserves.
Not only were billions of dollars in armaments and munitions intended for Iraq surreptitiously sent to Syria, fleets of brand-new Toyotas have been paraded all over the ever-changing battlefield reflecting direct Western involvement.
In fact without Western war financing and weapons supply, ISIS, ISIL and the Islamic State would have already collapsed.
Isn't it strange that "ISIS" just happens to be pictured along with a convoy of Toyota trucks that at least appear to be modified the exact same way special forces has them outfitted before shipping them from the factory in Texas? When you combine this latest discovery with the fact that "ISIS" has, U.S. military small arms U.S. military Humvees U.S. military artillery U.S. citizens running their online social media campaigns John McCain met with destabilization campaign terrorists in Syria including someone from the newly formed "ISIS" in March of 2013, what conclusion would a reasonable person come to? [4]
Isn't it strange that "ISIS" just happens to be pictured along with a convoy of Toyota trucks that at least appear to be modified the exact same way special forces has them outfitted before shipping them from the factory in Texas? When you combine this latest discovery with the fact that "ISIS" has,
U.S. military small arms U.S. military Humvees U.S. military artillery U.S. citizens running their online social media campaigns John McCain met with destabilization campaign terrorists in Syria including someone from the newly formed "ISIS" in March of 2013,
U.S. military small arms
U.S. military Humvees
U.S. military artillery
U.S. citizens running their online social media campaigns
John McCain met with destabilization campaign terrorists in Syria including someone from the newly formed "ISIS" in March of 2013,
what conclusion would a reasonable person come to? [4]
Conclusion The following graphic well describes one of the primary purposes for the deliberate engineering of the Syrian Civil War by the Anglo-American Axis.
Syria has provided support to Israel's sworn enemies for too long. The Golan Heights remain a highly contested region that Israel illegally seized during the 1967 Six-Day War and unlawfully annexed in 1981.
That universally condemned theft of Syrian property was part of a much bigger agenda to establish a "Greater Israel" which would quite substantially expand its current borders always through illicit acts of war and unprovoked aggression.
As the graphic illustrates, Israel's security 'will not' be compromised, nor will its expansion into the "Greater Israel" be impeded.
However, in the leadership of Bashar al-Assad, the rogue nation of Israel has met its match. Assad's Syria has fought valiantly against the greatest military forces on Earth and somehow prevailed when it should not have.
While Syria has sustained big losses of territory to ISIS, this war has only just begun now that Russia has shown a serious military commitment on the ground. Lastly, the relationship that exists between Presidents Putin and Assad completely transcends geopolitical objectives and military purposes. Both have an abiding respect for each other's religious orientation.
Under Assad, the Christian communities throughout the Middle East could always expect to find protection and support. The Russian Orthodox Patriarchate in Moscow certainly appreciates this historical fact of life under Assad's stewardship. Syria had always been a safe place for Christians to live side-by-side with Sunnis and Shiites, Alawites and Sufis in peace.
Only if Bashar and Asma al-Assad miraculously remain in their seats of power and influence will there be any hope of a return to that unique and once-enduring peace.
This is the real reason why the AAA aggressors have been unable topple Bashar al-Assad - the grateful people of Syria simply won't let them.
Author's Note The most effective way for the AAA to bring down any leader of international stature is to falsely accuse them of committing unspeakable atrocities against their own people.
In this way the MSM has regularly been used to disseminate patently false stories about Bashar Assad.
In every single case of a 'gas attack' it was obvious that the U.S.-backed rebels were doing the gassing; that is, if any gassing was done at all. Some of those 'heinous attacks' against Syrian citizens have been proven to be staged events choreographed by the MOSSAD et al. All one has to do is google the following search terms together with "Syria" and/or "Assad".
The first Google page will return results with fabricated articles that falsely report the following events carried out by Assad or the Syrian government:
chemical weapons chemical weapon attack chemical attacks chemical gas attacks sarin gas attack chlorine gas attack deadly poison gas attacks gas bombs
chemical weapons
chemical weapon attack
chemical attacks
chemical gas attacks
sarin gas attack
chlorine gas attack
deadly poison gas attacks
gas bombs
In each and every case that a chemical gas attack did occur, it was a false flag operation conducted by the CIA-backed rebels.
When the false flag attack was obviously staged, it was coordinated by the same MOSSAD-assisted rebels. Assad himself has conducted interviews in which he categorically denied any such attacks against his people. Those who know him have all said the accusations are as contrived as they are ridiculous.
Syria has since turned over all chemical weapons for immediate disposal. For the unaware, the Anglo-American Axis is well-known in intelligence circles for carrying out chemical attacks whenever they want to demonize a government or political leader.
Nothing rallies the world community quicker than a fake cause concocted with fraudulent news reports about chemical weapons used against an innocent civilian population. In the meantime the United States of America maintains the largest stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons in the world.
And, for what purpose? In fact the AAA is now notorious for routinely alleging 'war crimes' and 'crimes against humanity' whenever it serves their geopolitical goals.
Their simple MO is as follows:
first they send in their proxies to commit some form of brutal violence then, the foreign government reacts strongly to appropriately 'protect' people and property
first they send in their proxies to commit some form of brutal violence
then, the foreign government reacts strongly to appropriately 'protect' people and property
This is usually where a ruthless false flag attack is conducted that is falsely blamed on the sitting government, just like the CIA did with the Kiev shootings during the Maidan protest.
They executed the same type of false flag attack with the shoot-down of MH17 over the eastern Ukraine.
Sources
[1] Alawites [2] Hafez al-Assad [3] Asma al-Assad: A Rose in the Desert [4] ISIS Drives Texas-made Toyota Trucks Apparently Modified for U.S. Special Forces
[1] Alawites
[2] Hafez al-Assad
[3] Asma al-Assad: A Rose in the Desert
[4] ISIS Drives Texas-made Toyota Trucks Apparently Modified for U.S. Special Forces
Glossary Anglo-American Axis:
The Anglo-American Axis is represented, first and foremost, by the major English-speaking countries of the world: USA UK Canada Australia New Zealand Israel The European member nations of NATO, such as Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands are also closely aligned with the AAA as are all the Scandinavian countries. So are the Asian Pacific Rim nations of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines. Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Kuwait, Jordan, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, and Qatar also owe their allegiance to the AAA but some of these may be changing. The World Shadow Government is an ultra-secret, supranational organization which completely controls the Anglo-American Axis, as well as the European Union, NATO, among many other institutional entities which constitute the Global Control Matrix. Source: Vladimir Putin's Russia: Perfect Foil To The Anglo-American Axis And Their New World 'Order'
The Anglo-American Axis is represented, first and foremost, by the major English-speaking countries of the world:
USA UK Canada Australia New Zealand Israel
USA
UK
Canada
Australia
New Zealand
Israel
The European member nations of NATO, such as Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands are also closely aligned with the AAA as are all the Scandinavian countries.
So are the Asian Pacific Rim nations of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Kuwait, Jordan, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, and Qatar also owe their allegiance to the AAA but some of these may be changing.
The World Shadow Government is an ultra-secret, supranational organization which completely controls the Anglo-American Axis, as well as the European Union, NATO, among many other institutional entities which constitute the Global Control Matrix. Source: Vladimir Putin's Russia: Perfect Foil To The Anglo-American Axis And Their New World 'Order'
Return to The Actual Syrian Case
