# The Brotherhood of The Snake Teachings of Ancient Egypt

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_brotherhoodsnake01.htm

by High Priestess Maxine Dietrich
2002
from IlluminatiNews Website
from The White Chapel at Karnak
.
The pyramids served many purposes. One purpose was that of initiation and ceremonial rites, both for humans and for the magickal workings of the Gods. Many hieroglyphics depict the Gods tuning their chakras with a rod-like instrument. Satan gave these energy centers to humanity, they are known as the breath of life, breathed into us by God (Father Satan). There are seven primary chakras and many minor ones. The hook and the flail were tuning tools for the primary chakras along the spine. A mural on a wall at Abu Simbel depicts Horus holding a rod to the back of Osiris' head, at the point that is the primary doorway to the eighth chakra (above the crown of the head).
The hook is moved up and down the rod to tune the chakra. Osiris is standing with an erection. Sexual energy is a paramount component in the rite of resurrection and immortality. Kundalini is sexual; the life force. Sexual energy is that of the life force, as it has the power to create life through another human being. The sexual energy runs up and down the spine during the tuning process. The Egyptian Ankh symbolizes eternal life and eternal life is linked to the breath. The Ankh is also linked to sexual energy. One of the key teachings was the overcoming of fear. Only when one surpasses all personal fears, can higher levels be accessed. Fear is the main emotion that prevents one from advancing spiritually. Fears must first be overcome here on Earth. To reach this goal, the Egyptians built special temples along the Nile. There are 12, along with the great pyramid making 13. 1+3=4. All of the verses in the xian bible referring to Satan and his Demons given certain mathematical applications, come out as 13. Four was Satan's original number.
The Temple at Kom Ombo represents the second chakra and is dedicated to polarity/duality; the basis of sexuality and two Gods are associated with it- Sobek, the Crocodile God and Horus. The Ancient Egyptians would create experiences in these temples that would push initiates past their fears to become strong and competent in experiencing the unknown.
There was a water hole full of crocodiles. The initiate, taking only one breath would dive under water not knowing what to expect and the test was to emerge from the water in a different location from where he/she went in. Initiates were unaware that the crocodiles were fully fed. They had to remain calm and in control to navigate the water.
The sarcophagus in the King's chamber was used for the adepts as one of their final tests. The pyramids were built precisely along powerful earth energy lines known as ley lines and used by the Gods in their ritual workings. Beneath the great pyramid are the Halls of Amenti, the womb of the Earth. The adept would lie in the sarcophagus in the correct position so a powerful beam would hit the third eye chakra. The adept would then begin a specific type of meditation and the experience would be so blissful, some never returned. Part of the initiation was the conditioning of the student to remember to return to their bodies after the experience. The final initiation also was held in the King's chamber. This 4-5 minute ceremony took place in the center of the room. An Ankh was drawn on the third eye of the initiate. Satan created the Brotherhood of the Snake for humans to be able to advance to higher levels of spirituality.ยน The Gods were the teachers. Most are now the ones we know as the Demons. Some of the Gods, such as Thoth and Isis escaped being labeled as Demons. Isis is really Astaroth, but not too many know this. They helped and taught humanity. References:
The Gods of Eden by William Bramley 1990 pages 53-54 The Ancient Secret of the Flower of Life by Drunvalo Melchizedek Volume 2, pages 262-268
The Gods of Eden by William Bramley 1990 pages 53-54
The Ancient Secret of the Flower of Life by Drunvalo Melchizedek Volume 2, pages 262-268
Supporting References:
The Illustrated Egyptian Book of the Dead: a new translation with commentary by Ramses Seleem, 2001
Return
