# The "Secret Society” Behind Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_middleeast04.htm

by John Daniel
from ScarletAndTheBeast Website
To understand why this Muslim secret society was founded at the dawn of the 20th Century, we must return to the 11th Century thru the dawn of the 14th Century, when Freemasonry was born during The Crusades.
First Crusade
Fig. 1 Pope Urban II Salvation through violence was a revolutionary idea when in 1095.
Pope Urban II preached it to call up the Crusaders to take the Promised Land from the Muslims by force. The First Crusade in 1099 A.D The birth of Freemasonry Fig. 2 Peter the Hermit Charismatic itinerant preacher, promised peasants a better life in the Holy Land.
But few made it. Fig. 3
First View of Jerusalem by the Crusaders from the Hill of Emmaus, June 10, 1099.
Jerusalem!! Jerusalem!! It is the Will of God!!! It is the Will of God!!! Fig. 4
First Crusaders entered Jerusalem with Peter the Hermit and Godfrey de Bouillon.
Godfrey organized the Priory of Sion in 1099.
Notice Christian cross on the breast of Peter the Hermit (standing),
and Templar cross on breastplate of Godfrey de Bouillon (mounted).
A few years later the Priory of Sion founded the Knights Templar as its protector.
Knights Templar founded Freemasonry.
Fig. 5
Third Crusade
Fig. 6 Saladin (1137-1193) His chivalry and generosity stood in sharp contrast
to many of the Christians he fought at Jerusalem Fig. 7 Richard the Lion-Hearted (1157-1199) Fighting Saladin in the Holy Land, this ruthless English king became one of the Crusaders best-known figures.
In photo above, Richard and his Knights Templar prepare to attack Joppa on Palestines coast in the Third Crusade.
Notice the splayed Templar-cross on Richards tunic. Fig. 8 Defeat of the Crusaders at Acre in 1187. Fig. 9
Subsequent Crusaders looted Muslim wealth in the Holy Land.
Crusaders were the founders of what is today English and French Freemasonry
(edited excerpt below taken from "Introduction" of Scarlet & Beast, Vol. 1) There are two streams of Freemasonry.
First, the Rosicrucians, the secret society behind the Crusaders in 1099 A.D. In 1717 the Rosicrucians founded English Freemasonry.
The second stream of Freemasonry are the Knights Templar, loosely formed by the Rosicrucians immediately following the First Crusade. Hugh de Payens formally organized the Templars in 1118 and became their first Grand Master. The name Templar is derived from the Temple of Jerusalem. In 1725 the Templars founded French Freemasonry.
Templars were the first religious community to yoke cross and sword. Their initial stated purpose was to guard and guide pilgrims to the Holy City of Jerusalem. Gradually Templar duties expanded to defend the Holy Land against all infidels, or any force menacing Jerusalem of their religion.
The nucleus of Templars consisted of nine men. As the order grew, de Payens created 13 degrees within the order.57 Why he chose to stop at thirteen is not known. Perhaps it represented the tribes of Israel (eleven full tribes and the two half tribes of Joseph Ephraim and Manasseh). Maybe it stood for the twelve disciples and Jesus Christ. What is significant about the number 13 is that it identifies the Templar headquarters of our day, which nation continues to defend the Holy Land against the Muslims.
Another symbol that identifies the Templars is the emblem of their order. They adopted the famous splayed red cross of the Merovingian kings of France, placing it on their mantles, swords, buildings, and gravestones. This symbol is also important in tracing Templar movements to their present-day headquarters in the extreme west (region of the setting sun) according to Scripture.
After founding their order in Jerusalem in 1118, the Templars headquartered themselves in a fortified abbey above the ruins of Solomons Temple on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem hence the name Templar. Their domicile is of great significance, for somewhere beneath it was allegedly buried the unfathomable wealth of King Solomon.
As Templar fame increased, so did their wealth. According to standard histories, one source of their wealth was gifts from kings and princes grateful for their services.
As their influence grew, so too did their power and wealth. Eventually the Templars developed into an efficient military organization that adopted absolute secrecy to cover all internal activities....
Templars also made powerful enemies, among them King Philip IV (the Fair), who ascended the throne of France in 1268, his country near bankruptcy. The Templars possessed both money and land in abundance, which King Philip needed.
Failure of the Knights Templar to defend Jerusalem against the Muslims in 1187, their extensive banking and financial interests in both London and Paris, their rich establishments, and rumors of heretical practices within the order, gave Philip the ammunition needed to launch a successful campaign to destroy the order throughout Europe. On Friday, October 13, 1307, Philip ordered the arrest of all Knights Templar in France. Seven years later Philip ordered then Grand Master Jacques de Molay and other dignitaries of the Templars be burned at the stake. (Figure10).
Three centuries later, during the reign of James Stuart I, the embryos of both Scottish and York Rites of Masonry developed in England. At that time it was called Jacobite Masonry, in memory of martyred Templar Grand Master Jacques de Molay. Later these rituals became known to Masons in England and America as York Rite, and in France and America as Scottish Rite.
Both are Templar rites.
Today, under the flags of the U.S.A. and England, Templar Crusaders continue to defend the Holy Land against the Muslim.
Fig. 10
Jacques de Molay, Grand Master of the Knights Templar, burned at the stake in Paris, France on March 18, 1314. 3rd degree initiation in Blue Lodge Masonry is are enactment of the interrogation and execution of Templar Jacques de Molay.
It is a brutal initiation, from which comes the common saying by someone questioned about his dubious activity,
He gave me the third degree.
(See Sect.1, Fig. 18 below).
European Freemasonry Founds Terrorist Youth Corps
(edited excerpt below taken from Chapter 12 of Scarlet & Beast, Vol. 1)
33º Freemason Giuseppe Mazzini, after three years of intense revolutionary training (1827-1830), concentrated on recruiting rebellious youth to further his conspiracy of revolution. In 1831 he was exiled to France. In 1832 he founded for his young revolutionaries their own form of Freemasonry prefixed by the word Young. By 1833 Young Italy had grown to 60,000 members.
In 1835, with help from Freemason Henry Palmerston, Mazzini founded Young Europe in Switzerland. Young societies continued to organize in new territories long after Mazzinis death. In the new world they were called Young America; in England, Young England; in Italy, Young Italy; in Turkey, Young Turks. On the Continent they were generally called Young Europe.
Young societies consisted of radical and riotous youth, many of whom were later initiated into Templar Grand Orient lodges in their respective countries. The Scottish Rite hierarchy directed their activity, while the Masonic press described them as students expressing their grievances.
All Young society members throughout Europe were taught the art of subversion by Grand Orient Freemasonry. They were ready when called upon to agitate, demonstrate, instigate worker strikes, hold rallies, or spy, bomb, and assassinate. Also known as Anarchists and Nihilists, they were reckless of every consequence, using dynamite, the knife, or the revolver for the benevolent cause of Grand Orient Freemasonry.
Msgr. Dillon specifically mentions that these hoodlums (whose protection had been written into the French Constitution), would go to Paris where they were taught the use and manufacture of dynamite.
Although Young society members in Mazzinis day were described as loose-knit with no direction, they were in fact highly organized. A few were wealthy. Some were laborers and students, others, paid rioters. The majority had no jobs at all, yet spent money freely an enigma to those who had no knowledge of their Masonic backers. After their grievances were aired by the Masonic press, public opinion turned in the direction favorable to Grand Orient Freemasonry.
In short, Young society members were hoodlums trained to do the bidding of the Templar Scottish Rite hierarchy. Their duty was to spread the secular Templar revolution throughout Europe. Mazzini was their leader.
With this rabble, Mazzini brought Italy her Masonic Revolution.
Throughout these insurrections, Young Italy hoodlums, with no skills or aims other than causing havoc, supported themselves by kidnapping for ransom, robbing banks, looting or burning businesses if protection money was not paid. This rabble became known as Mazzinis Association For Insurrection and Assassination.
For short the acronym M.A.F.I.A. was used. Organized crime was born!
Fig. 11
Colonel T.E. Lawrence, mystery man of the desert, made use of secular Young Societies
to assist winning freedom for Arabs from their Muslim fundamentalist leaders.
In retaliation against the secular Young Societies,
Muslim fundamentalist founded their own secret society for youth,
the Muslim Brotherhood.
T.E. Lawrence (1888-1935)
Thomas E. Lawrence, the mystery man of the desert, better known as Lawrence of Arabia, was a soldier, Arabist, and writer. Born in Tremadoc, Gwynedd, N. Wales, UK, he studied at Oxford, and became a junior member of the British Museum archaeological team at Carchemish, on the Euphrates (1911-14). In WWI he worked for Army Intelligence in North Africa. Lawrence was a Freemason, yet no record of his credentials are forthcoming. He was deeply involved with the secular youth corps of Freemasonry known as Young Societies, founded 1830 in Italy by 33º Freemason Guiseppe Mazzini.
Wherever Lawrence journeyed in Muslim or Arab countries, he founded many secular Young Societies. For example, when he was assigned to Intelligence at Cairo to investigate the Arab revolt against the Turks, he set up secular Young Egypt, and initiated Arab male youth and trained them in subversion against Egypt.
When the West was preparing to return the Jews to Palestine at the close of World War One, the Arabs were unhappy. So, Lawrence immediately went to work through that group of Arabs who were members of Young Egypt and Young Turkey to quell the revolt.
In 1916 T.E. Lawrence joined the Arab revolt against the Turks, entering Damascus in October 1918. He was a delegate to the Peace Conference, and later became adviser on Arab affairs to Great Britains Colonial Office (1921-1922).
He withdrew from his legendary fame in 1922.
Excerpts from the book
What Went Wrong? - The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East
by Bernard Lewis
2002, Perennial
In the mid-1860s a new movement was launched the Young Ottomans... It is interesting that both the Young Ottomans and their later successors, the Young Turks, avoided using the normal Turkish word for young in their nomenclature. The Young Ottomans called themselves Yeni, which literally means new. The Young Turks called themselves Yonturk, simply transliterating their French designation... The Young Ottomans were obviously formed on the analogy of the Italian liberal patriot [33º Freemason] Giuseppe Mazzinis Young Italy and Young Europe; they agitated for a constitution and parliament, with the inevitable result that in 1867 their leaders went into exile, mostly to London and Paris [where both English and French Freemasonry reside]. They returned in 1870, and in 1876, with the help of some pressure from the European powers, they were able to persuade the sultan to proclaim a brand new constitution, providing for a parliament, with a nominated senate and popularly elected chamber. This constitution, which owed much to the example of the Belgian constitution and more to that of the Prussian constitutional enactment of 1850, was far from libertarian. Even so, it was too much. Two elections were held, the first in March 1877, the second, after a forced dissolution, in December of the same year. The first Ottoman parliament sat for two sessions, of about five months in all. Nevertheless, the elected members showed considerable vigor, and no doubt for that reason on February 14, 1878 the sultan, exercising the imperial prerogative, summarily dismissed parliament. It did not meet again for 30 years.
In the mid-1860s a new movement was launched the Young Ottomans... It is interesting that both the Young Ottomans and their later successors, the Young Turks, avoided using the normal Turkish word for young in their nomenclature. The Young Ottomans called themselves Yeni, which literally means new. The Young Turks called themselves Yonturk, simply transliterating their French designation...
The Young Ottomans were obviously formed on the analogy of the Italian liberal patriot [33º Freemason] Giuseppe Mazzinis Young Italy and Young Europe; they agitated for a constitution and parliament, with the inevitable result that in 1867 their leaders went into exile, mostly to London and Paris [where both English and French Freemasonry reside]. They returned in 1870, and in 1876, with the help of some pressure from the European powers, they were able to persuade the sultan to proclaim a brand new constitution, providing for a parliament, with a nominated senate and popularly elected chamber.
This constitution, which owed much to the example of the Belgian constitution and more to that of the Prussian constitutional enactment of 1850, was far from libertarian. Even so, it was too much. Two elections were held, the first in March 1877, the second, after a forced dissolution, in December of the same year. The first Ottoman parliament sat for two sessions, of about five months in all.
Nevertheless, the elected members showed considerable vigor, and no doubt for that reason on February 14, 1878 the sultan, exercising the imperial prerogative, summarily dismissed parliament. It did not meet again for 30 years.
20th Century Almanac, World Almanac Publ. NY.
Report on Young Turks
June 23, 1900 Turkey.
The Young Turks, a group that includes many students, exiles in Western Europe, and members of the Turkish military who are determined to get rid of the ineffectual Sultan Abdel Hamid, present a manifesto to the major foreign embassies in Constantinople [Turkey] demanding that these foreign powers end the Ottoman Sultans rule. The Ottoman Empire has been coming apart since the early 19th century, as subject peoples began to demand freedom. Such minorities as the Kurds and Armenians demanded at least tolerance, and foreign powers tried to gain territory or access at the expense of the Empire. It will take a world war to demolish the Ottoman Empire, after which the Young Turks will bring Turkey into the concert of modern nations.
The Young Turks, a group that includes many students, exiles in Western Europe, and members of the Turkish military who are determined to get rid of the ineffectual Sultan Abdel Hamid, present a manifesto to the major foreign embassies in Constantinople [Turkey] demanding that these foreign powers end the Ottoman Sultans rule.
The Ottoman Empire has been coming apart since the early 19th century, as subject peoples began to demand freedom. Such minorities as the Kurds and Armenians demanded at least tolerance, and foreign powers tried to gain territory or access at the expense of the Empire. It will take a world war to demolish the Ottoman Empire, after which the Young Turks will bring Turkey into the concert of modern nations.
Hijackers of Freemasonry by 33º Henry C. Clausen
(1905-1993) Past Sovereign Grand Commander of The 33º Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, Southern Jurisdiction (SJ), U.S.A.
Clausen writes in the above booklet the following account of the Young Turk revolution:
Masons historically have been in the forefront of movements that fired the imagination of freedom-loving people throughout the world. Goethe, Mozart, LaFayette were enthusiastic Masons as was the great Hungarian hero of democracy Kossuth, who found temporary refuge in America. Garibaldi was a 33º Scottish Rite Mason and a Grand Master. Leaders of the Young Turkish Committee [teenage youth corps of Turkish Freemasonry, comparable to the DeMolays in America] that in 1908 forced Sultan Hamid the Damned to give their nation a parliamentary form of government, were Masons.
Following is a photo history of that Turkish revolution, which was the catalyst that turned fundamentalist Muslims into haters of the Wests freedom-loving Masonic democracy and secularism, culminating in al-Qaedas 9/11 terrorist attack on America. This attack led to our war in Afghanistan, and (as an aside) our war ill-fated with Iraq.
Pres. Bush has said, The world will be a secular democracy, like it or not.
Fig. 12
Beginnings of Masonic secularization of Turkish government.
Abdulmecid I (1823-1861)
Ottoman sultan - 1839-61
Abdulmecid I, Ottoman sultan, who issued two major social and political reform edicts known as the Hatt-i Serif of Gulhane (Noble Rescript of the Rose Chamber) in 1839 and the Hatt-i Humayun (Imperial Rescript) in 1856, heralding the new era of Tenzimat (Reorganization) that won the respect of European Masons. Well educated, liberal minded, and the first sultan to speak French, Abdulmecid continued the reform program of his father, Mahmud II, and was strongly assisted by his ministers Mustafa Resid Pasa, Mehmed Emin Ali Pasa, and Fuad Pasa. The reform edicts were in part directed toward winning the support of European powers. The edicts proclaimed the equality of all citizens under the law and granted civil and political rights to the Christian subjects. The main purpose of the reforms, however, remained the preservation of the Ottoman state.
The army was reorganized (1842) and conscription introduced; new penal, commercial, and maritime codes were promulgated; and mixed civil and criminal courts with European and Ottoman judges were established. In 1858 a new land law confirming the rights of ownership was introduced, and an attempt was made to establish a new system of centralized provincial administration. The Sultans educational reforms included the formation of a Ministry of Education, military preparatory schools, and secondary schools and the establishment of an Ottoman school in Paris (1855).
In 1849, Abdulmecids refusal to surrender Freemason Lajos (Joseph) Kossuth and other Hungarian masonic revolutionary refugees to Austria, won him the respect of the European Masons. (See Section 4 - Fig. 24 below).
In 1853 the Ottomans were assisted by France, Great Britain, and Sardinia in the Crimean War against Russia and were admitted as participants in the Treaty of Paris (1856). The European powers, however, while insisting on reforms aimed toward the Christians and minorities in the Ottoman Empire, obstructed the Sultans efforts at centralization, or at recovering power in Bosnia and Montenegro in the Balkans.
Fig. 13
Continuing the secularization of Turkish government. Abdulaziz (1830-1876) Ottoman sultan 1861-1876
Abdulaziz was a member of the Mawlawiyah (Mevlevi) order of dervishes (Muslim mystics), yet he was an ardent admirer of the material progress in western Europe, as had been his brother, Abdulmecid I, who had continued the Westernizing reforms initiated by his predecessor. Of strong physique, Abdulaziz loved wrestling and hunting. He was also interested in music and painting. Between 1861 and 1871, reforms were continued under the leadership of Abdulaziz able chief ministers, Fuad Pasa and Ali Pasa. New administrative districts were set up in 1864. On French advise, a council of state was established in 1868. Public education was organized on the French model and a new university founded. And the first Ottoman civil code was promulgated.
Abdulaziz cultivated good relations with France and Great Britain and was the first Ottoman sultan to visit western Europe. However, educated in the Ottoman tradition, he could not always accept the adoption of Western institutions and customs. Consequently, in 1871 his reign took an anti-Western absolutist turn. That same year Abdulaziz ministers, Ali and Fuad, died. France, the Sultans Western model and backer, had been defeated by Germany. Willful and headstrong, without powerful ministers to limit his authority, Abdulaziz became the sole ruler and placed greater emphasis on the Islamic character of the empire.
As turmoil in the Balkan provinces continued, he turned to Russia for friendship. When insurrection in Bosnia and Herzegovina spread to Bulgaria (1876), ill feeling mounted against Russia for its encouragement of those rebellions.
The crop failure of 1873, the Sultans lavish expenditures, and the mounting public debt had also heightened public discontent. Consequently, Abdulaziz was deposed by his ministers on May 30, 1876.
His death a few days later was attributed to suicide.
Fig. 14
Continuing the secularization of Turkish government. Abdulhamid II (1842-1918) Ottoman sultan 1876-1909
A son of Sultan Abdulmecid I, he came to the throne at the deposition of his mentally deranged brother, Murad. Under his autocratic rule the reform movement of Reorganization reached its climax. Abdulhamids reform adopted a policy of pan-Islamism in opposition to Western intervention in Ottoman affairs. He was brought to power by a group of liberal ministers led by Midhat Pasa. The Sultan had pledged to Midhat the position of Grand Vizier if he would assist his rise to power. Abdulhamid fulfilled his pledge to Midhat, who then promulgated the first Ottoman constitution on Dec. 23, 1876. This liberal charter was, to a large extent, adopted to ward off foreign intervention at a time when the Turks savage suppression of the Bulgarian uprising in May 1876, and Ottoman successes in Serbia and Montenegro had aroused the indignation of Western powers and Russia.
After a disastrous war with Russia in 1877, and humiliating terms for an armistice, Abdulhamid was convinced that little help could be expected from the Western Powers without their intrusion into Ottoman affairs. He then dismissed the Parliament, which had met in March 1877, and suspended the constitution in February 1878. For the next forty years he ruled from his seclusion at Yildiz Palace in Istanbul [modern Turkey], assisted by a system of secret police, an expanded telegraph network, and severe censorship.
Discontent with Abdulhamids despotic rule and resentment against European intervention in the Balkans, however, led to the military revolution of the Young Turks in 1908.
After a short-lived reactionary uprising in April 1909, Abdulhamid was deposed, and his brother was proclaimed sultan Mehmed V.
Fig. 15
Continuing the secularization of Turkish government. Mehmed V (1844-1918) Ottoman sultan 1909-1918
His reign was marked by the absolute rule of the Committee of Union and Progress, and by Turkeys defeat in World War I.
After having lived in seclusion most of his life, Mehmed Resad became sultan after his brother Abdulhamid II was forced to abdicate. A kind and gentle man, educated in traditional Islamic subjects and Persian literature, he showed a keen interest in Ottoman and Islamic history. Nevertheless, he lacked the ability to govern.
Attempting to rule as a constitutional monarch, he surrendered all authority to the Committee of Union and Progress, the liberal-nationalist organization of the Young Turk movement.
On the advice of the committee, the Sultan went on a goodwill tour of Thrace and Albania in 1911. In the two Balkan Wars during 1912-13, however, the Ottomans lost almost all their European possessions, and in the war with Italy in 1911-1912, Tripoli was lost.
Although Mehmed was opposed, the Ottoman Empire entered World War One on the side of Germany and Austria-Hungary, and as caliph, he declared holy war and invited all Muslims, especially those under the rule of the Allies, to rally to the support of Ottomans.
By the time of Meheds death, most of the empire had fallen to the Allies, and six months later Istanbul [Turkey] was under military occupation.
Fig. 16
Continuing the secularization of Turkish government. Mehmed VI (1861-1926) Ottoman sultan 1918-1922
The last sultan of the Ottoman Empire, whose forced abdication and exile to San Remo, Italy in 1922 prepared the way for the emergence within a year of the Turkish Republic under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Clever and perceptive, Mehmed VI became sultan July 4, 1918, and attempted to follow the example of his elder brother Abdulhamid II by taking over personal control of the government.
After the Armistice of Mudros on Oct. 30, 1918, and the establishment of the Allied military administration in Istanbul on Dec. 8, 1918, the nationalist-liberal Committee of Union and Progress had collapsed, and its leaders had fled abroad. The Sultan, opposed to all nationalist ideologies and anxious to perpetuate the Ottoman dynasty, acceded to the demands of the Allies. On December 21 he dissolved parliament and undertook to crush the nationalists.
The nationalists, however, who were organizing in Anatolia under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal, sought the Sultans support in their struggle for territorial integrity and national independence. After negotiations, the Sultan agreed to elections, which were held late in 1919. The nationalists won a majority in the new parliament. The Allies, alarmed at the prospect of Turkish unity, extended the occupied area in Istanbul and arrested and exiled the nationalists.
The Sultan dissolved the parliament on April 11, 1920. The nationalists set up a provisional government in Ankara. Mehmeds signing of the Treaty of Sevres on Aug. 10, 1920, however, reduced the empire to little but Turkey itself and served to strengthen the nationalist cause. After the defeat of the Greeks, the nationalists were in solid control of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly on Nov. 1, 1922, abolished the sultanate. Sixteen days later Mehmed VI boarded a British warship and fled to Malta.
His later attempts to install himself as caliph in the Hejaz failed.
Fig. 17A
Kemal Ataturk used Young Turks, Freemasonrys secular youth organization, to depose the Sultan and win freedom for the Turks.
On March 24, 1923, TIME magazine wrote,
Mustapha Kemal Pasha... has lifted the people out of the slough of servile submission to alien authority,
brought them to... independence of thought and action. Kemal Ataturk (1881-1938)
Emergence of Turkey as a modern nation in this century was due in large part to the implacable energy and vision of one man, born Mustafa Kemal, who as leader of his country took the not unwarranted name Ataturk, meaning Father of the Turks. He was instrumental in the liberal Young Turk (earlier called Young Ottoman) revolution of 1908, which deposed the sultan. Young Societies in Europe were founded in 1830-1860 by 33º Freemason Giuseppe Mazzini, head of Italian Freemasonry.
Lawrence of Arabia followed by planting Young Societies throughout the Near East, using young secular Muslims to topple the Ottoman Empire.
Despite quarrels with the new government about its German allegiance, Ataturk led the Turkish forces to victory over the Allies at Gallipoli during World War I. After the war, when the Allies reinstated the sultanate, Ataturk (with his Young Turks), mounted a resistance movement that expelled the Greek invasion in 1920 and abolished the sultanate again in 1922. Ataturk, when becoming President of the New Turkish Republic in 1923, changed Turkey into a modern secular country in the Western mold by ruthless force of will.
As violent and vindictive as his reforms often were (particularly those directed at Islam), his nation mourned his passing in 1938.
Howard Chua-Eoan writes in TIMEs
80 Days That Changed The World
Ataturk Commands His People: Westward, Ho! (2003):
General Mustafa Kemal, who had repelled the British at Gallipoli in 1915 and had just recently done the same to invading Greeks, now planned a civil takeover of his own country. Just hours before he did it, Kemal was telling a journalist that popular Islam had become a morass of superstitions that would destroy those who professed it. He declared, We will save them, according to biographer Andrew Mango. A 101-gun salute greeted the announcement: Turkey had ceased to be an Islamic empire. It was a republic, and its leader, Kemal, became President not Sultan, not Caliph, the titles that Ottoman monarchs paraded for 600 years the first as despots who once made Europe cower, the second as Commanders of the Faithful, leaders of Sunni Muslims everywhere. Soon Western clothing was enforced and Roman letters replaced Arabic-based script. The man who would adopt the name Ataturk (father of the Turks) inaugurated an era in which nationalism, not Islam, would be seen as the solution to the trouble of Muslim peoples. But by the 1980s, a reaction would set in, and the cause of the caliphate eventually would be taken up by, among others, Osama bin Laden.
General Mustafa Kemal, who had repelled the British at Gallipoli in 1915 and had just recently done the same to invading Greeks, now planned a civil takeover of his own country. Just hours before he did it, Kemal was telling a journalist that popular Islam had become a morass of superstitions that would destroy those who professed it. He declared, We will save them, according to biographer Andrew Mango. A 101-gun salute greeted the announcement: Turkey had ceased to be an Islamic empire.
It was a republic, and its leader, Kemal, became President not Sultan, not Caliph, the titles that Ottoman monarchs paraded for 600 years the first as despots who once made Europe cower, the second as Commanders of the Faithful, leaders of Sunni Muslims everywhere. Soon Western clothing was enforced and Roman letters replaced Arabic-based script. The man who would adopt the name Ataturk (father of the Turks) inaugurated an era in which nationalism, not Islam, would be seen as the solution to the trouble of Muslim peoples.
But by the 1980s, a reaction would set in, and the cause of the caliphate eventually would be taken up by, among others, Osama bin Laden.
Eighty years after Mustafa Kemal Ataturk revolutionized his nation and turned its face toward Europe, Turkey remains an outsider in two worlds, held at arms length by both its European and Arab neighbors.
Long a member of NATO, Ataturks nation smarted as the European Union accepted a gaggle of former Warsaw Pact nations but put Turkey on hold.
On Istanbuls streets, conservative Muslims pass artsy young women with their hair uncovered. In its governing councils, democracy and its freedoms are hailed as shining ideals, but open debate is discouraged. In some ways, the nation is not so far removed from the days of Ataturk, dictator-of democracy who issued fiats banning Arab garb in the name of freedom.
Turkeys ruling elites followed Ataturks resolute secularism for decades, but lately some Turks have called for a society more in tune with the nations Islamic heritage. In the November 2002 elections, voters threw out the longtime ruling party in favor of a pro-Islamic party headed by former Istanbul Mayor Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Turkey soon found itself caught between its twin beacons:
U.S. President George W. Bush wanted Turkey to allow U.S. troops to invade Iraq from Turkish soil, but in a major blow to U.S. plans, the new Parliament vetoed the plan. With the U.S. looking forward to a post-Saddam Middle East, its diplomats will confront a Turkey in evolution, as the most democratic nation in the Islamic world turns its face toward Mecca again.
32º Mehmet Talaat Pasha (1872-1921)
Turkish political leader. After Turkish revolution of 1908, he became leader of Young Turks. He later became minister of interior, postmaster general and eventually succeeded Said Halim Pasha as grand vizier of Turkey (1917). Was forced into retirement Oct. 1918. Served as Grand Master of the Grand Orient Masonic Lodge of Turkey. Left Turkey in 1919. Two years later was assassinated in Berlin by an Armenian student.
33º Selim Sarper (1899-?)
Permanent representative of Turkey to UN beginning in 1947 with rank of ambassador. Educated at U. of Ankara. Officer of foreign service of Turkey since 1927. Served in Odessa, Moscow, Berlin, Bucharest. Press officer to prime minister, 1940-44. Ambassador to Moscow, 194146, and Rome, 1946-47. 33º AASR Mason. Appeared at numerous Masonic functions in NYC.
33º Khedive Ismail Pasha (1830-1895)
First Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Egypt and khedive of Egypt (1863-1879), who, in 1879 presented the famous Cleopatras Needle to the United States. It was originally erected in Heliopolis, Egypt, about 1500 B.C. Weighing 200 tons, its removal and re-erection was quite a problem. It was shipped under the direction of Comdr. H. H. Gorrige, a Mason, and on Oct. 9, 1880 the foundation stone of the monuments base was laid with Masonic ceremonies.
Muslim Brotherhood
An organization founded in Egypt in 1928 by Hasan al-Banna (1906-1949), calling for a return to rigid orthodoxy, the overthrow of secular governments, and a restoration of the theocratic state.
Random House Dictionary; see Fig. 17B below
Turkey Mackeys Revised Encyclopedia of Freemasonry
Vol. 2, p. 1061 5th printing, 1950
A writer in the Freemasons Quarterly Review (1844, page 21), says that there was a Masonic meeting in Constantinople, at which some Turks were initiated, but that the government prohibited...future meetings.... Many and various authorities have founded Lodges in Turkey. Mention of Lodges at Smyrna and Aleppo occurred in a London newspaper as early as 1738. Oriental Lodge under the Grand Lodge of England has been active since 1856 at Constantinople. A Grand Lodge of Turkey formed by Ionic, Anatolia, and Benzenzia Lodges was declared illegal in 1859 by the Grand Lodge of England. A District Grand Lodge was establish in 1861 with Sir Henry Bulwer, British Ambassador, as District Grand Master. A Supreme Council was opened in 1869 and a Grand Orient of Turkey in 1908. Since 1894 the Grand Lodge of Hamburg has had a Lodge working in German, Die Leuchte am goldenen Horn, meaning Light at the Golden Horn, these last two words referring to the crescent-shaped strait, the Bosporus, on which Constantinople is situated. The Grand Orient of Italy has three, the Grand Orient of France one, all at Constantinople. The Grand Orient of France has two Lodges at Smyrna, Homere from 1909 and Meles from 1913; Bakai from 1905 at Jaffa, and Moriah Lodge at Jerusalem since 1913. The Grand Orient has also had a Lodge at Beyrouth in Syria, Le Liban from 1868; and at Zahle, also in Syria, Etoele du Liban, meaning in French Star of the Liban, since 1913. The Grand Orient of Italy has Lodges at Adana and Angora, two at Smyrna, one at Syrian Tripoli, and another at Rodi. In these Lodges many native Mohammedans have been initiated. The Turks, however, have always had secret societies of their own, which has led some writers to suppose, erroneously, that Freemasonry existed long before the date of its actual introduction. Thus, the Begtaschi form a secret society in Turkey, numbering many thousands of Mussulmans in its ranks, and none but a true Moslem can be admitted to the Brotherhood. It is a religious Order, and was founded in the year 1328 by the Hadji Begtasch, a famous dervish, from whom it derives its name. The Begtaschi have certain signs and passwords by which they are enabled to recognize the true Brethren, and by which they are protected from vagabond impostors. A writer in Notes and Queries says, in summer of 1855, and English merchant captain, while walking through the streets of a Turkish quarter of Constantinople, encountered a Turk, who made use of various signs of Freemasonry, some of which (the captain being a Mason), he understood and others he did not. It is, however, probable in this instance, considering the date, that the Turk was really a Freemason, and possessed some higher Degrees, which had not been attained by the English Captain. There is also another equally celebrated Order in Turkey, the Melwi, who have secret modes of recognition.
A writer in the Freemasons Quarterly Review (1844, page 21), says that there was a Masonic meeting in Constantinople, at which some Turks were initiated, but that the government prohibited...future meetings....
Many and various authorities have founded Lodges in Turkey. Mention of Lodges at Smyrna and Aleppo occurred in a London newspaper as early as 1738. Oriental Lodge under the Grand Lodge of England has been active since 1856 at Constantinople.
A Grand Lodge of Turkey formed by Ionic, Anatolia, and Benzenzia Lodges was declared illegal in 1859 by the Grand Lodge of England.
A District Grand Lodge was establish in 1861 with Sir Henry Bulwer, British Ambassador, as District Grand Master. A Supreme Council was opened in 1869 and a Grand Orient of Turkey in 1908.
Since 1894 the Grand Lodge of Hamburg has had a Lodge working in German, Die Leuchte am goldenen Horn, meaning Light at the Golden Horn, these last two words referring to the crescent-shaped strait, the Bosporus, on which Constantinople is situated. The Grand Orient of Italy has three, the Grand Orient of France one, all at Constantinople.
The Grand Orient of France has two Lodges at Smyrna, Homere from 1909 and Meles from 1913; Bakai from 1905 at Jaffa, and Moriah Lodge at Jerusalem since 1913. The Grand Orient has also had a Lodge at Beyrouth in Syria, Le Liban from 1868; and at Zahle, also in Syria, Etoele du Liban, meaning in French Star of the Liban, since 1913. The Grand Orient of Italy has Lodges at Adana and Angora, two at Smyrna, one at Syrian Tripoli, and another at Rodi.
In these Lodges many native Mohammedans have been initiated. The Turks, however, have always had secret societies of their own, which has led some writers to suppose, erroneously, that Freemasonry existed long before the date of its actual introduction. Thus, the Begtaschi form a secret society in Turkey, numbering many thousands of Mussulmans in its ranks, and none but a true Moslem can be admitted to the Brotherhood. It is a religious Order, and was founded in the year 1328 by the Hadji Begtasch, a famous dervish, from whom it derives its name.
The Begtaschi have certain signs and passwords by which they are enabled to recognize the true Brethren, and by which they are protected from vagabond impostors. A writer in Notes and Queries says, in summer of 1855, and English merchant captain, while walking through the streets of a Turkish quarter of Constantinople, encountered a Turk, who made use of various signs of Freemasonry, some of which (the captain being a Mason), he understood and others he did not.
It is, however, probable in this instance, considering the date, that the Turk was really a Freemason, and possessed some higher Degrees, which had not been attained by the English Captain. There is also another equally celebrated Order in Turkey, the Melwi, who have secret modes of recognition.
Young Turks and Masonry Mackeys Revised Encyclopedia of Freemasonry Vol. 3, p. 1393 1950
Bro. Ernest Jackh, a member of the faculty of Columbia University, New York, began in 1908 his extraordinary career as political and diplomatic expert on Turkey and the Balkans. He saw the fall of the Ottoman Empire, was in continuous relationship with Enver Pasha, Mustapha Kemal [Ataturk], etc., during the ten years of the Young Turks movement, and had a part in the founding of the Turkish Republic under Kemal. Regularly constituted Masonic Lodges take no part in political and military enterprises, but oftentimes for that reason are in the center of them because within their tiled doors men from every side and opinion can meet and become acquainted without embarrassment or political commitments. On page 92 of...The Rising Crescent (Farrar & Rinehart; New York; 1944) Bro. Jackh writes: Besides vatan (fatherland) there was another word in everybodys mouth and in every newspaper: hurriet, Liberty. At that time (1908) I frequently attended Masonic Lodge meetings of the Young Turks. Among my Brother Masons I would meet Moslems and Christians, Turks, Arabs, Armenians, Greeks, Bulgarians, Jews, and Doenmés (Jewish Moslems) all with the common headdress, the fez, the mark of citizenship in the Ottoman Empire. When liberty was discussed it would be applied to all the national groups within the supranational empire, all now liberated from the Hamidian regime of absolutism and palace intrigue. Under the constitution renewed by the Young Turks the non-Moslem nationalities had their full share of liberty, equality, and fraternity. In the Bill of Rights included in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Freemasonry is explicitly provided for, not by name, but by means of the words italicized in the sentence: No one shall be molested on account of his religion, sect, his ritual or his philosophic convictions."
Bro. Ernest Jackh, a member of the faculty of Columbia University, New York, began in 1908 his extraordinary career as political and diplomatic expert on Turkey and the Balkans. He saw the fall of the Ottoman Empire, was in continuous relationship with Enver Pasha, Mustapha Kemal [Ataturk], etc., during the ten years of the Young Turks movement, and had a part in the founding of the Turkish Republic under Kemal.
Regularly constituted Masonic Lodges take no part in political and military enterprises, but oftentimes for that reason are in the center of them because within their tiled doors men from every side and opinion can meet and become acquainted without embarrassment or political commitments.
On page 92 of...The Rising Crescent (Farrar & Rinehart; New York; 1944) Bro. Jackh writes:
Besides vatan (fatherland) there was another word in everybodys mouth and in every newspaper: hurriet, Liberty. At that time (1908) I frequently attended Masonic Lodge meetings of the Young Turks. Among my Brother Masons I would meet Moslems and Christians, Turks, Arabs, Armenians, Greeks, Bulgarians, Jews, and Doenmés (Jewish Moslems) all with the common headdress, the fez, the mark of citizenship in the Ottoman Empire. When liberty was discussed it would be applied to all the national groups within the supranational empire, all now liberated from the Hamidian regime of absolutism and palace intrigue. Under the constitution renewed by the Young Turks the non-Moslem nationalities had their full share of liberty, equality, and fraternity. In the Bill of Rights included in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Freemasonry is explicitly provided for, not by name, but by means of the words italicized in the sentence: No one shall be molested on account of his religion, sect, his ritual or his philosophic convictions."
Besides vatan (fatherland) there was another word in everybodys mouth and in every newspaper: hurriet, Liberty. At that time (1908) I frequently attended Masonic Lodge meetings of the Young Turks. Among my Brother Masons I would meet Moslems and Christians, Turks, Arabs, Armenians, Greeks, Bulgarians, Jews, and Doenmés (Jewish Moslems) all with the common headdress, the fez, the mark of citizenship in the Ottoman Empire.
When liberty was discussed it would be applied to all the national groups within the supranational empire, all now liberated from the Hamidian regime of absolutism and palace intrigue. Under the constitution renewed by the Young Turks the non-Moslem nationalities had their full share of liberty, equality, and fraternity.
In the Bill of Rights included in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Freemasonry is explicitly provided for, not by name, but by means of the words italicized in the sentence:
No one shall be molested on account of his religion, sect, his ritual or his philosophic convictions."
This was written in 1944.
Today Turkish attitudes toward secular freedom and the Freemasonry that brought it about, is despised by the Muslim world, as evidenced by the news clipping on the next page.
Payback time
Muslims know that western Freemasonry is behind democratizing their world. Prior to World War I, when Turkey was in the throws of revolution, Muslims lost the Ottoman Empire to a Masonic Turkish democracy. In retaliation Muslim terrorists infiltrated Young Serbia, the youth order of European Freemasonry, and assassinated Archduke Ferdinand in 1913, triggering World War One.
Western democracies have not learned their lesson, for once again the West is forcing democracy on Muslim nations, with democrats hidden within Masonic Lodges in their lands. Beginning with Afghanistan, then Iraq, Muslims know that following a democracy comes secularization. And behind both is Western Freemasonry. Hence, we see increased attacks on Masonic Lodges by Muslims. But the press will report few of them.
Below is one back page report in Istanbul.
Freemasonrys Young Societies vis-a-vis Muslim Brotherhoods Al-Qaeda As are the Scottish and York Rites of Freemasonry both secret societies, al-Qaeda is likewise a secret society. Like Freemasonry, al-Qaeda denies its own existence in order to remain in the shadows. In this regard al-Qaeda is set up identically to Adam Weishaupts Illuminati.
In 1830 Illuminated Freemasonry, under the leadership of 33º Freemason Giuseppe (Joseph) Mazzini, organized Freemasonrys terrorist arm (Young Societies), consisting of 16 to 21-year-old male youth. Their assignment? Secularize both Christian and Muslim countries through terror and revolution.
Within their respective host nations, Young Societies became known as Young Italy, Young Germany, Young Serbia, Young Russia, Young America, Young Egypt, Young Turks, etc.
In 1908 the Young Turks compelled the unwilling sultan of the Ottoman Empire to restore the constitution of 1876. These early constitutional reforms were obviously the result of European Masonic influence and example, along with the desire to compete with Europe on equal terms. They were also gestures of propitiation to qualify for loans and other benefits, while at the same time ward off intervention and occupation by European powers.
At that same time the Armenian leadership cooperated with the Young Turk committees in overthrowing the despotic rule of Sultan Abdulhamid II, and in accomplishing the Young Turk revolution of 1908. In 1912, Young Serbia was behind the terrorist attacks that triggered a series of Balkan Wars. Balkan allies, Bulgaria, Serbia and Greece, made substantial territorial gains at Ottoman expense, and Albania was added to the roster of independent states.
The final attack, which triggered World War I, was by Young Serbian Freemasons, who assassinated Archduke Ferdinand, heir to the Austria-Hungarian throne. (see Section 6 - Figs. 4-8 below).
The Young Turks blundered into World War One on the side of the Central Powers and found themselves involved in a death struggle, in which their traditional Masonic friends of Western Europe became their enemies.
Eleven years following World War One the Muslim Brotherhood was founded in Egypt as an Islamic fundamentalist counteraction to western Freemasonrys secular youth corps of Young Societies. The Muslim Brotherhood called for a return to rigid Muslim orthodoxy, the overthrow of secular governments, and a restoration of the theocratic Muslim state.
In 1954 the Muslim Brotherhood made an attempt on the life of Prime Minister Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt. Nasser shut down the Brotherhood by driving it into exile in Syria.
Fig. 17B
Hasan al-Banna (1906-1949)
founder of The Muslim Brotherhood in 1928
June 25, 1980
The Muslim Brotherhood tried to assassinate Hafiz al-Asad of Syria an Alawite Muslim. An angered Asad made a decision to destroy the Brotherhood. The next morning two of Asads elite guard units (the Defense Companies) loaded into choppers, then flew east to Palmyras notorious military prison where Muslim Brothers were being held. Waiting guards threw open the doors. The Defense Companies stormed in, moving from cell to cell, executing prisoners. The Brothers had only time enough to yell, God [Allah] is great! Although 500 Brothers died that day, the Brotherhood was not intimidated. February 1982 the Brotherhood seized the city of Hama on the Orontes River, Syrias fourth largest city, with roots going back to the Bronze Age. When they started cutting throats of Alawite Muslim officials and their families, Asad acted. He called in the Defense Companies again and ordered, Level the city.
Two days of continuous shelling left Hama a smoldering pile of rubble. An estimated 20,000 were killed, including most of the Muslim Brotherhood. Hafiz al-Asad was not happy to go down in history as the butcher of Hama, or the man who destroyed a world-class historic city, but it was either that or run for it, along with a million other Alawites. The Muslim Brotherhood would never again pose a serious threat to Asad.
Instead, it came to terms with Syria, formed Hamas (named after the city of Hama), and based out of Syria, directed its terror against Israel.
On October 6, 1981, the world first witnessed the bloody consequences of the Muslim Brotherhood when it assassinated Anwar Sadat.
Again in 1993 the Brotherhood tried to kill the interior minister and later the prime minister of Egypt.
In 1995 they tried to kill Hosni Mubarak while he was visiting Ethiopia.
Two years later, the Brotherhood attacked the temple at Luxor, killing fifty-eight foreign tourists and four Egyptians.
Muslim Brotherhood attacked once more on 9/11/2001, in New York City and suburban Washington, DC.
The press, however, kept calling the attackers al-Qaeda, thanks to Osamas relentless publicity machine.
Founder of al-Qaeda
Dr. Abdullah Azzam, born in 1941 to a Muslim family in northern Palestine, was the Palestinian-Jordanian ideologue who conceptualized al-Qaeda in 1987. As a young man, Azzam joined the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood and later became a stalwart of its Jordanian chapter.
Like Freemasonry, the Muslim Brotherhoods multinational members are designated as brothers, operating in groups called cells, as did illuminated Freemasonry from its beginning, and continues the same today.
Each cell is self-contained. Hence, any cell plucked would not affect the whole.
Osama bin Laden
Osama was taught Islamic studies by Muhammad Qutb, whose brother was Sayyid Qutb, the ideologue of the Muslim Brotherhood. When Osama arrived in Afghanistan, he fell under the influence of Dr. Abdullah Azzam, who mentored him. Both men together ran the Afghan Service Bureau through a network of offices, including thirty in United States cities, which disseminated their propaganda, raised funds, and recruited new members.
On November 24, 1989, in Peshawar, Dr. Azzam was driving to a local mosque with his two sons and one of their friends when his car evaporated in a giant explosion. No one was ever charged with Azzams death. Early reports said he had had the misfortune of running into one of the regions many land mines. However, the ISI, whose file on Azzam was the largest of any intelligence agency, concluded that al-Zawahiris Islamic Jihad carried out the murder as a favor to Osama bin Laden.
The hierarchy in al-Qaeda is formed identical to Freemasonrys Illuminati capstone atop the pyramid. And as Freemasonrys pyramid base consists of student cells, so too does the Al Qaeda al-Sulbah, which means The Solid Base of the pyramid. And like Freemasonry, al-Qaedas cellular network makes it resistant to intelligence service penetration.
The Taliban, which means students, is identical in structure to the original student membership of the Illuminati, and later to Freemasonrys Young Societies. And like cells of students within the Illuminati, represented by the bricks on the base of the Illuminati pyramid (as seen on the back of the U.S.A. $1 bill), al Qaeda likewise set up student cells for its base of operation. And as did the Illuminati build a worldwide network of secret societies, so too did al Qaedas leadership build a secret organization that now covers the entire world, including many cells in Mosques in the U.S.A.
Al-Qaeda membership was and continues to be recruited from the Muslim Brotherhood, which made certain Islamists receptive to Osamas message. Muhammad Atta, the al-Qaeda team leader of September 11, for example, was first a member of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood. And while the bloodthirsty Brotherhood only spoke of martyrdom, al-Qaeda actually practiced it on a worldwide scale.
Sources:
The Middle East, A Brief History of the Last 2000 Years, by Bernard Lewis, Simon & Schuster; A Touchstone Book, 1997 Inside Al Qaeda, by Rohan Gunaratna, Berkley Books, NY, 2003 Sleeping with the Devil, How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude, by Robert Baer, Crown Publishers, NY, 2003 Why America Slept, The Failure to prevent 9/11, by Gerald Posner, Random House, NY, 2003
The Middle East, A Brief History of the Last 2000 Years, by Bernard Lewis, Simon & Schuster; A Touchstone Book, 1997
Inside Al Qaeda, by Rohan Gunaratna, Berkley Books, NY, 2003
Sleeping with the Devil, How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude, by Robert Baer, Crown Publishers, NY, 2003
Why America Slept, The Failure to prevent 9/11, by Gerald Posner, Random House, NY, 2003
Fig. 18
TIME Magazine December 19, 2005
The Muslim Brother hood becomes political through the ballot box. Posters on the wall herald the march of Islam, but tonight the Cairo headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood is a different kind of war room.
Essam El-Erian, chief political strategist for the banned but officially tolerated fundamentalist group in Egypt,
performs evening prayers with a dozen other officials and then starts working the phones...
checking on the results of the final round of the parliamentary elections held last week in Egypt.
Early returns look promising.
Hitler, Muslims, and World War IIs anti-Semitism From Scarlet and the Beast, Vol. 1, 3rd ed. Chapter 26
Thule Society - Its Founder and Membership
Although the Thule Society was an offshoot of the Golden Dawn, its official founder and head was Baron Rudolf von Sebottendorff (1875-1945), a Knight of the Masonic Order of Constantine (Turkish Freemasonry). Sebottendorff was the leader of the Turkish Crescent, which fought in the Balkan War of 1912-1913 against the Grand Orient revolutionists backed by Serbia. In the ranks of the revolutionists were Jews, and consequently during the conflict Sebottendorff [a Moslem] became violently anti-Semitic. In 1913 he returned to Germany fortified with a vast knowledge of the occult and substantial funds from an unknown source. During the next four years he made extensive contacts with the leading members of numerous international occult groups that were rapidly proliferating in Germany at that time, focusing his Contacts on the Order of the Golden Dawn. Late in 1917 Sebottendorff was in Munich to begin organizing the Thule Society. With assistance from Golden Dawn members, on August 17, 1918, the Thule Society was officially founded. Sebottendorff elevated himself to Grand Master, then recruited from among the German noble families and aristocracy to use the Society as their counterrevolutionary headquarters. To his later discredit and ultimate downfall, Sebottendorff published a list of the Thule Societys membership. Sebottendorff claimed he had been sent to Germany by the Ascended Masters of Islam, who, had entrusted him with the mission of illuminating Germany through the revelation of the secrets of advanced magic and initiation into ancient oriental mysteries. One of the mysteries Sebottendorff imparted to the Thule membership was the so-called revelation that the Jews were behind world revolution and therefore must be annihilated.
Although the Thule Society was an offshoot of the Golden Dawn, its official founder and head was Baron Rudolf von Sebottendorff (1875-1945), a Knight of the Masonic Order of Constantine (Turkish Freemasonry). Sebottendorff was the leader of the Turkish Crescent, which fought in the Balkan War of 1912-1913 against the Grand Orient revolutionists backed by Serbia. In the ranks of the revolutionists were Jews, and consequently during the conflict Sebottendorff [a Moslem] became violently anti-Semitic.
In 1913 he returned to Germany fortified with a vast knowledge of the occult and substantial funds from an unknown source. During the next four years he made extensive contacts with the leading members of numerous international occult groups that were rapidly proliferating in Germany at that time, focusing his Contacts on the Order of the Golden Dawn. Late in 1917 Sebottendorff was in Munich to begin organizing the Thule Society.
With assistance from Golden Dawn members, on August 17, 1918, the Thule Society was officially founded. Sebottendorff elevated himself to Grand Master, then recruited from among the German noble families and aristocracy to use the Society as their counterrevolutionary headquarters. To his later discredit and ultimate downfall, Sebottendorff published a list of the Thule Societys membership.
Sebottendorff claimed he had been sent to Germany by the Ascended Masters of Islam, who,
had entrusted him with the mission of illuminating Germany through the revelation of the secrets of advanced magic and initiation into ancient oriental mysteries.
One of the mysteries Sebottendorff imparted to the Thule membership was the so-called revelation that the Jews were behind world revolution and therefore must be annihilated.
Anti-Semitism and the Thule Society
Another Thule Society member who added strength to Sebottendorffs anti-Semitic accusations was Alfred Rosenberg (1893-1946). Rosenberg grew up as a Baltic German in Revel, Estonia, and spoke perfect German and Russian. He studied architecture at Moscow University and graduated there in 1917. He witnessed Kerenskys revolution in February and saw it destroyed in October by Lenin, a half-Jew, and Trotsky, a full-blooded Jew. In the spring of 1918, he read the newspaper headlines which announced the assassination of the Czar and his royal household at the hands of a Jew.
Then he watched as 82 percent of the new Communist bureaucracy was staffed by Jews.
Fig. 19
Mufti of Jerusalem
Mufti: Muslim official who interprets law of Koran & tradition.
He was a Muslim fundamentalist opposed to secular societies. Mufti of Jerusalem inspects Muslim unit of German army January 1944.
Haj Amin al-Husseini, the Mufti of Jerusalem, had been blackened as a suave Muslim religious leader who encouraged terrorism and fascism. He was particularly influential in the fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood headquartered in Egypt. Murder of political opponents and intimidation of the uncommitted became the normal tools of his trade in the 1930s.
Following Hitlers coming to power in Germany in 1933, a brutal and systematic persecution of Jews spread across central Europe. Thousands fled and sought sanctuary in Palestine. In 1935 alone some 60,000 Jewish immigrants arrived. Arabs saw this influx as confirmation of their fear that the British and the Zionists were conspiring to reduce them to a minority in their own land.
Much as the Colonial service officers on the spot tried to be fair to the Arabs, the pull of Zionist influence in London and Washington constantly overrode them. Finally, in 1939 the white paper offered the Arabs practically all they asked. Had the Mufti and Muslim Brotherhood around him been politically skilful they would have seized the moment.
But the Mufti insisted on all or nothing and got nothing.
Britain, in its role as patron of Arab interests, had encouraged the creation in 1944-45 of the Arab League, to coordinate the policies of the independent Arab states. After WWII the Mufti was living in Cairo, Egypt.
However, the Mufti found the Arab League less helpful than he had hoped.
End of Empire, by Brian Lapping, St. Martins Press, NY., 1985, pp. 113, 140, 246.
Fig. 20 Bosnia and Herzegovina Muslim volunteers in the Nazi Army. Fig. 21 Croatian Muslim volunteers in the Nazi Army. Fig. 22
Egyptian Freemasonry used to throw off the yoke of colonialism. Pasha Saad Zaghlul (1860-1927)
Premier of Egypt in 1924. A lawyer and statesman, he was minister of public instruction in 1906, and later, minister of justice.
After the close of WWI, he became head of the Nationalist Party, which advocated and demanded the breaking of ties binding Egypt to Great Britain. He failed in his attempt to conclude the negotiation with British Prime Minister MacDonald. He was deported to Malta in 1919 and then to Ceylon, returning to Egypt in 1921.
One of the two Egyptian Grand Lodges to which he belonged ordered 7 weeks of mourning after his death.
Fig. 23
King Farouk I Last reigning king of Egypt (1936-1952) and a Freemason,
lost his secular throne to a fundamentalist secret society, the Muslim Brotherhood,
counterpart to Masonrys secular Young Societies. King Farouk I (1920-1965)
Last reigning king of Egypt (1936-52), born in Cairo, the son of Faud I. He was educated in England and studied at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. After WWII he turned increasingly to a life of pleasure. At this time the Allies handed the Jews Palestine. Although Britain did not support the partition of Palestine, nor openly back the Jews in 1947, Egyptians were familiar with British deception, and heaped blame on them.
The Mufti of Jerusalem was living in Cairo at that time and helped to persuade Egyptians that the handing of Palestine to the Jews was an act of British perfidy. The Mufti was particularly influential in the fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood, a counterpart secret society to secular Young Egypt. The growth of the Muslim Brotherhood had been a problem to secular Farouk for many years. Its members wanted Egypt to be an austere Islamic state. The Partition of Palestine boosted the popularity of the Muslim Brotherhood to new heights. Muslim countries united to take back Palestine, but were soundly defeated.
The defeat of Egypt by Israel and continuing British occupation led to increasing unrest, and General Neguibs coup (1952) forced Farouks abdication and exile.
Fig. 24
Nasser used Freemasonys secular youth organization to win freedom for the Egyptians. Gamal Abdel Nasser (1918-1970)
Egyptian statesman, prime minister (1954-1956), and president (1956-1970), born in Alexandria. Nasser was only a babe when Freemason Lawrence of Arabia was using Young Societies (youth corps of Freemasonry founded in the Middle East a century earlier by 33º Freemason Joseph Mazzini) to throw off the yoke of Muslim fundamentalist mid-Eastern tyranny. As a young man in Egypt, Nasser joined Young Egypt, which organized demonstrations against British control of Egypt. As an army officer, he became dissatisfied with the corruption of the Farouk regime and was involved in the military coup of 1952. He assumed the premiership in 1954, and then presidential powers.
Thereafter, he developed the Nations military strength and the economy, began building the Aswan Dam, and nationalized the Suez Canal (which led to an abortive invasion by Britain, France, and Israel).
The respect he commanded among Arabs helped Nasser promote pan-Arab movements, including the United Arab Republic formed by Syria in 1958 with Nasser as president. (Syria withdrew in 1961).
A fervent anti-Zionist, Nasser attacked Israel in 1967. After the resulting quick defeat by Israel, he resigned, but was immediately returned to office by popular acclaim. His last years were spent rebuilding his military forces with Soviet support, and seeking inroads to negotiations with Israel. He died in 1970, having brought increased respect and dignity to the Arab world.
Fig. 25
Cover of TIME Magazine, 11/25/02
It should come as no surprise that al-Qaeda members are recruited from this fundamentalist Muslim youth order. TIME Magazine, Architect of Terror 3/10/03, p. 24, confirms that the recently captured Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the architect of 9/11, who became the third man upon the death of Mohammed Atef,
was committed to Islam from an early age. The son of a devout Pakistani living in Kuwait, he joined the Egypt-based Muslim Brotherhood as a young man.
On March 20, 2003, as our military was advancing on Baghdad, FOX NEWS reported:
The riots against the war by young Muslims in Yemen were sponsored and promoted by the Muslim Brotherhood.
The Muslim Brotherhood founded and organized the Islamic fundamentalist secret society (al-Qaeda) in the same format as Western Freemasonrys Young Societies.
Fig. 26
Bagdads sorcery and witchcraft.
Saddams wizard tells of a leader obsessed with sorcery.
Twenty-four million people in Iraq use some sort of magic.
AP Photo, August 15, 2003.
Sayed Sadoun Hamid el-Moussaoui al-Refai, 56, meditates in his magic room recently in Baghdad, Iraq. Al-Refai uses his 7-year-old son as a medium to find things, or people that are lost.
The wrinkled old man sprays perfume around the sparse, dingy room, then holds out his hands and feet and instructs one of his visitors to tie him up, knot the cloth three times and blow on it. The lights die and small red flashes go off beneath the black cloak that covers a bowl of magic powders and water.
In the darkness, visitors feel pokes and jabs and things fluttering over their heads.
Birds, the wizard says. Water splashes from the bowl. The genies arrive, and the questions begin. Will Saddam be found? A genie answers in the old mans voice: Yes. Dead or alive? Dead. Where is he? In Dhuluaiyah, a village 55 miles north of Baghdad.
Thousands of magicians, fortune-tellers and faith healers make up a huge world of Iraqi spirituality that thrives despite being considered by many Muslims as sinful. But this man is different. He was Saddams own sorcerer, and, therefore, his visions of the dictators demise carry special weight for Iraqis.
According to the magician and several others interviewed in Baghdad, Saddam was a firm believer in magic.
Figure 27
So much for the accuracy of Saddams wizard.
The Butcher of Bagdad was captured alive Dec., 2003.
These soldiers had been scouring the area for months in the belief that he would stay close to home,
where loyalty among those who most benefited from his rule still ran deep.
U.S. intelligence sources tell Time Magazine that over the past month they were getting better leads.
CAPTURED ALIVE
It was a team of 600 soldiers from the 4th Infantry Division and U.S. special forces that acted on the tip that Saddam was hiding in a little town called al-Dawr, (15 miles from his hometown of Tikrit), not in Dhuluaiyah, 55 miles north of Baghdad, as Saddams sorcerer had predicted. Saddams sorcerer had predicted he would be found dead!
Fig. 28
Saddam Husseins first day in court frightened, yet defiant.
New York Times News Service (July 2, 2004) BAGHDAD, Iraq With the image of Saddam Hussein in the dock flickering on the television screen before him, Sami Hassan shook his head in disbelief, struggling against the tears that came down his cheeks. This is a theater, said Hassan, a 47-year-old ex-member of the Baath Party, mimicking the words of his former boss on the day that he appeared in court. Hassans reaction was part of the outpouring of emotion that coursed through the Iraqi capital Thursday. The images of a once-omnipotent dictator charged with mass murder seemed to open up a conversation on every street and in every home. Across Baghdad, Iraqis sat spellbound, leaving their television sets only to test the feelings of neighbor and friend. Dhafar Muhammad, a small grocery operator in central Baghdad, closed shop, dashed home and flicked on the electrical generator he had rigged to power his television just for the occasion. The happiest day in my life was when they found him in that dirty hole, but this was very exciting, said Muhammad, a Shiite.
New York Times News Service (July 2, 2004) BAGHDAD, Iraq With the image of Saddam Hussein in the dock flickering on the television screen before him, Sami Hassan shook his head in disbelief, struggling against the tears that came down his cheeks.
This is a theater, said Hassan, a 47-year-old ex-member of the Baath Party, mimicking the words of his former boss on the day that he appeared in court.
Hassans reaction was part of the outpouring of emotion that coursed through the Iraqi capital Thursday. The images of a once-omnipotent dictator charged with mass murder seemed to open up a conversation on every street and in every home.
Across Baghdad, Iraqis sat spellbound, leaving their television sets only to test the feelings of neighbor and friend.
Dhafar Muhammad, a small grocery operator in central Baghdad, closed shop, dashed home and flicked on the electrical generator he had rigged to power his television just for the occasion. The happiest day in my life was when they found him in that dirty hole, but this was very exciting, said Muhammad, a Shiite.
Fig. 29
Leader of Hamas assassinated by Israeli military - 3-22-04. Sheik Ahmed Yassin (1937-2004)
USA TODAY March 23, 2004 JERUSALEM Yassin, 67, was blown up, along with seven Hamas leaders, in an Israeli missile strike. Israel said it eliminated a man who sought to destroy it. Hamas has killed nearly 400 Israelis in three years. Israel warned Palestinian authority head Yasser Arafat that he, too, could be targeted if terrorism does not stop. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after the strike that Yassin was a mastermind of Palestinian terror, a mass murderer who is among Israels greatest enemies. It is the natural right of the Jewish nation, as it is the right of any peoples, to hunt down those who wish to exterminate them. Yassin, a quadriplegic from a childhood accident, has long been a symbol of the Palestinian uprising against Israel. He spread his message from pulpits and in TV interviews, denouncing Israels right to exist and pushing for it [the nation of Israel] to be taken over by an Islamic state. His supporters said he was a spiritual leader and did not take part in the planning of attacks. Israel disagreed, saying he had a direct role. Yassins death was not expected to disrupt Hamas immediate ability to carry out terrorist attacks, and Israel was bracing for a wave of bombing attempts. The group is tightly organized and takes its cues from leaders being sheltered in Syria and Lebanon. (USA Today, March 23, 2004).
USA TODAY March 23, 2004 JERUSALEM Yassin, 67, was blown up, along with seven Hamas leaders, in an Israeli missile strike. Israel said it eliminated a man who sought to destroy it. Hamas has killed nearly 400 Israelis in three years. Israel warned Palestinian authority head Yasser Arafat that he, too, could be targeted if terrorism does not stop. Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said after the strike that Yassin was a mastermind of Palestinian terror, a mass murderer who is among Israels greatest enemies. It is the natural right of the Jewish nation, as it is the right of any peoples, to hunt down those who wish to exterminate them. Yassin, a quadriplegic from a childhood accident, has long been a symbol of the Palestinian uprising against Israel. He spread his message from pulpits and in TV interviews, denouncing Israels right to exist and pushing for it [the nation of Israel] to be taken over by an Islamic state. His supporters said he was a spiritual leader and did not take part in the planning of attacks. Israel disagreed, saying he had a direct role.
Yassins death was not expected to disrupt Hamas immediate ability to carry out terrorist attacks, and Israel was bracing for a wave of bombing attempts. The group is tightly organized and takes its cues from leaders being sheltered in Syria and Lebanon.
(USA Today, March 23, 2004).
Origin of the name - Assassin Comptons Encyclopedia, Vol.2, p.703, 1984
The adoption of assassination as a political weapon derives from the Islamic world of the 11th century. A secret order of Muslims was founded in Persia about 1090 by a man named Hasan ibn al-Sabbah. After gaining control of a mountain fortress near the Caspian Sea, Hasan founded a sect to fight his political enemies by means of murder. For two centuries this secret organization terrorized the Middle East. Hasan, who gained the nickname Old Man of the Mountain from his fortress hideaway, is said to have given his followers a vision-inducing drug called hashish, made from Indian Hemp. The visions of Islamic Paradise (or Heaven) brought on by the drug persuaded his disciples they would have a glorious afterlife if they followed Hasans orders and killed his enemies. The killers were called Hashishins, from hashish. This name was eventually corrupted into its present form, Assassins. The Hashishins were a threat to the stability of the Middle East until 1256, when the Mongol khan Hulagu stormed their fortress and massacred 12,000 of them. A branch of their organization in Syria was destroyed by the Egyptian sultan Baybars a few years later. From then on, the sect of Hashishins became little more than another Muslim faction, with no political influence. But assassination did not disappear.
The adoption of assassination as a political weapon derives from the Islamic world of the 11th century. A secret order of Muslims was founded in Persia about 1090 by a man named Hasan ibn al-Sabbah. After gaining control of a mountain fortress near the Caspian Sea, Hasan founded a sect to fight his political enemies by means of murder. For two centuries this secret organization terrorized the Middle East. Hasan, who gained the nickname Old Man of the Mountain from his fortress hideaway, is said to have given his followers a vision-inducing drug called hashish, made from Indian Hemp. The visions of Islamic Paradise (or Heaven) brought on by the drug persuaded his disciples they would have a glorious afterlife if they followed Hasans orders and killed his enemies. The killers were called Hashishins, from hashish. This name was eventually corrupted into its present form, Assassins.
The Hashishins were a threat to the stability of the Middle East until 1256, when the Mongol khan Hulagu stormed their fortress and massacred 12,000 of them. A branch of their organization in Syria was destroyed by the Egyptian sultan Baybars a few years later.
From then on, the sect of Hashishins became little more than another Muslim faction, with no political influence. But assassination did not disappear.
Assassination as a means to a political end continues in Islam today, including the use of mind-altering drugs to induce the euphoric hope of Paradise following the act. A modern hope has been added: Awaiting you in Paradise are 72 virgins.
In the hopeless squalor in which the modern hashishin recruits live, death appears to be better than life.
Fig. 30
In the 1979 photo below, the Ayatollah Khomeini had just arrived in Tehran, Iran
after having been flown from Paris in an Air France 747.
Terrorism is not modern, nor does it apply only to the Muslims.
The word was coined in 1795 in France following French Freemasonrys 1793 "Reign of Terror. During nine months 8 million French men and women were either beheaded, thrown over cliffs, or drowned. In 1795, to protect the terrorists from like death, France passed a law which to this day permits their government to harbor terrorists, whom they call political activists.
In the 1979 photo above, Khomeini has just arrived in Iran from France, where he had met in lodge with Grand Orient Masons to negotiate the supply of funds following the collapse of the pro-Western regime of the Shah of Iran. Khomeini was to replace the Shah with fundamentalist rule of the Muslim Brotherhood, Islams counterpart to Frances terrorist Freemasonry. (Whole story in Scarlet and the Beast, Vol. 3, chapter 6 A Freemasonry of Terrorists.)
Following is an excerpt:
Beginning in the mid-1970s and continuing through the mid1980s, the assassinations of European politicians, judges, and bankers by so-called terrorists, the mysterious death of one pope, and the attempted assassination of another put Europeans in a quandary. It was not surprising to learn that the terrorists were traced to organized crime. The links between the terrorist Red Brigades and the Mafia are well-documented. What was shocking to hear was that European terrorists did not take orders from the Mafia, but from a Masonic Lodge called Propaganda Duo, or P-2 Freemasonry. P-2 was heavily involved in a multi-billion dollar drugs-for-weapons deal with the Ayatollah Khomeinis Iran (Yallop, In Gods Name, 1984).
Beginning in the mid-1970s and continuing through the mid1980s, the assassinations of European politicians, judges, and bankers by so-called terrorists, the mysterious death of one pope, and the attempted assassination of another put Europeans in a quandary. It was not surprising to learn that the terrorists were traced to organized crime. The links between the terrorist Red Brigades and the Mafia are well-documented.
What was shocking to hear was that European terrorists did not take orders from the Mafia, but from a Masonic Lodge called Propaganda Duo, or P-2 Freemasonry. P-2 was heavily involved in a multi-billion dollar drugs-for-weapons deal with the Ayatollah Khomeinis Iran
(Yallop, In Gods Name, 1984).
When and How will this Conflict end?
Rev. 16, beginning with verse 12, gives the answer, which is prophesied to take place at the end of the seven-year Tribulation:
And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates [Iraq]; and the water thereof was dried up [Strongs, Gr. #3584, through the idea of scorching], that the way of the kings of the east [possibly Arab nations] might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon..., the beast, and..., the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty... And he (the Lord Jesus Christ) gathered them [the Kings of the east] together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great. And the great city [Jerusalem] was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell; and great Babylon [Iraq] came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every [hail] stone about the weight of a talent [100 pounds]: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates [Iraq]; and the water thereof was dried up [Strongs, Gr. #3584, through the idea of scorching], that the way of the kings of the east [possibly Arab nations] might be prepared. And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon..., the beast, and..., the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty... And he (the Lord Jesus Christ) gathered them [the Kings of the east] together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great. And the great city [Jerusalem] was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell; and great Babylon [Iraq] came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every [hail] stone about the weight of a talent [100 pounds]: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
MAP OF ARMAGEDDON TERRITORY
Random House Dictionary: Armageddon: the battlefield of Megiddo, where the final battle will be fought between the forces of good and evil. And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon Plains of Megiddo are in northern Israel, where the final battle will be fought. Holy Scripture prophesies that the Euphrates River will dry up before the battle begins, allowing kings of the east (Syria, Iraq, and Iran) to cross over a do battle. Strongs Concordance confirms that the phrase dry up (Gr. #3584) carries the idea of scorching. A drought strong enough to scorch the Euphrates would also scorch the Tigris. Scripture is specific to the Euphrates "scorching," thus isolating the location.
Random House Dictionary:
Armageddon: the battlefield of Megiddo, where the final battle will be fought between the forces of good and evil. And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon
Armageddon: the battlefield of Megiddo, where the final battle will be fought between the forces of good and evil.
And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon
Plains of Megiddo are in northern Israel, where the final battle will be fought. Holy Scripture prophesies that the Euphrates River will dry up before the battle begins, allowing kings of the east (Syria, Iraq, and Iran) to cross over a do battle. Strongs Concordance confirms that the phrase dry up (Gr. #3584) carries the idea of scorching.
A drought strong enough to scorch the Euphrates would also scorch the Tigris. Scripture is specific to the Euphrates "scorching," thus isolating the location.
A bridge crosses the Tigris at Baghdad where Irans army would have passage into Iraq. The Euphrates has no bridge, but does have a dam. For armies to cross the Euphrates, the dams spillway must be cut off. After the runoff deep mud would remain on the river bottom. Iran could drop a nuclear bomb on any portion of the muddy riverbed, which would instantly dry up through the idea of scorching, allowing kings of the east to cross over (Rev. 16:12).
Fear of nuclear radiation would have no affect on suicidal Moslems.
Passive Jordan and Saudi Arabia would most likely remain neutral, forcing Syria, Iraq, and Iran to conquer Israel from the north, which are the Plains of Megiddo. Such a war against Israel would activate treaties with western nations, ending in nuclear world war the affects of which are prophesied in Holy Scripture.
Fig. 32 Bikini Islands atomic blast caused 100 pound chunks of ice to fall to Earth
The Bikini atoll, a ring of 27 small islands around a lagoon in the Pacific,
was the site of an atomic bomb experiment by US Military following WW II.
70 decommissioned U.S. Ships were strategically placed to assess damage.
Ships you see on the horizon had huge dents in them. It was determined the dents were caused by ocean water forced into the upper atmosphere by the explosion, quick-freezing into chunks of ice,
then falling back to earth.
Each chunk of ice was estimated to have weighed at least 100 pounds.
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The Muslim Brotherhood
Return to Osama Bin Laden and 9-11
Return to 'Two Faces of Freemasonry'
Return to The Middle East Exopolitical Saga
