# The Coming Shakedown of the US and Iran

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_middleeast03.htm

by Henry Makow Ph.D. March 30, 2007 from SaveTheMales Website
If Russian warnings are correct, at this time next week, the US could be at war with Iran. Let us understand that this war is really an assault by the Illuminati on both countries. The top rung of Freemasonry, the Illuminati Order is an international satanic cult that aims to subdue humanity by pitting nations in war against each other. It represents a conspiracy of international finance and many "leading families" of Europe and America. The pictures of Bush and Ahmadinejad giving the satanic "goat's head" sign suggest Iranians are as ignorant as Americans of their President's true loyalty. Illuminati defector Leo Zagami recently called Ahmaninejad a "well known Satanist with no real connection to Islam" and the Iraq-Iran-Israel conflict a "foreign intelligence show." He remarked that the Iranian President awarded the officer who captured the British sailors a Masonic 3-kiss embrace. But Zagami thinks Iran's purpose is to be a long-term bogey man like the USSR, and it will NOT be attacked. Empowered by the central banking cartel, the Illuminati Order has the resources to infiltrate both sides of every conflict, and steer it according to the New World Order agenda. They call this a "dialectical process." They were on both sides of both world wars, the Cold War, Korea and Vietnam. Iran's nuclear ambitions are merely a pretext. The real object is to degrade both the US and Iran so citizens will forfeit political, economic and spiritual rights to Illuminati banker "world government." As early as 1871, Albert Pike, the Grand Commander of US Freemasonry wrote a letter to Giuseppe Mazzini, his European counterpart, foretelling three world wars. He was correct about the first two.
"The Third World War must be fomented by taking advantage of the differences caused by the "agentur" of the "Illuminati" between the political Zionists [i.e. Americans] and the leaders of Islamic World. The war must be conducted in such a way that Islam and political Zionism mutually destroy each other."
I dont see this conflict as starting WWIII. Like the Spanish Civil War, it is a dress rehearsal. In turn, the Israel attack on Lebanon last July was a dry run for the attack on Iran. It may even have been part of an Israeli-American quid pro quo. And just as Israel suffered some humiliating setbacks at the hands of the Hezbollah, I wouldnt be surprised if the US "victory" is also Pyrrhic. The important thing to understand is that a satanic cult controls all countries and is conducting a covert war against humanity. Thus, people are too busy fighting each other to recognize their real enemies are their own leaders, the mass media, and the bankers who own both. This is a possible Iran scenario: Like all wars, the conflict will be orchestrated . It will take place in the next month or two and resemble the Lebanon war. Iran and the US will both suffer serious losses; the price of oil will sky rocket and the stock market will take a hit. Israel and Iran may exchange fire but I don't foresee any invasions. If Iran went into Iraq, all bets would be off. I'd like to be %100 wrong about this, and free to enjoy the Spring weather.
ORCHESTRATIONS Here are some articles that suggest the Illuminati is orchestrating both sides:
Some observers have noted that the British female sailor was interviewed by the BBC and The Independent just hours before she was taken prisoner. How convenient. At least they didn't broadcast the capture before it took place. Some have suggested the capture is so unlikely that both sides may have staged it, or it was a trap laid by the British. This would explain the lack of resistance. The parallel between the prisoner-takings that started the Lebanon war, and the present situation is obvious.
In a recent article, Seymour Hersh reveals that Dick Cheney has been running an Iran-Contra style operation that includes support for groups linked to al Queda. They are also engaged in clandestine operations in Iran and the kidnapping of hundreds of Iranians. Isn't it strange that the Iranians have never captured any of the Americans involved in this? Isnt it strange the Iranians dont demand a prisoner exchange for their own citizens, particularly the ex-Deputy Minister of Defense kidnapped in Turkey? Hersh also says the US is trying to repackage the Iraq war (a crude grab for oil and world domination) as a regional Shiite-Sunni conflict in which the US finds itself an innocent bystander. This has put the US in the contradictory position of having installed a pro-Iranian Shiite government in Iraq; and now having to support the Sunni and Al Qaeda insurgents, who are its ostensible enemies. It doesnt make any sense unless you see the war as an end in itself. David Icke received the shocking picture of Ahmadinejad from an aghast Iranian.
"What's going on? This doesn't have anything to do with Islam!" he exclaimed.
In his exclusive newsletter, Icke recently wrote that Ahmadinehad seems to be playing the Illuminati game:
"The propaganda war against Iran really picked up after the election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as President of the Islamic Republic in 2005. After he took office in the August he was soon making speeches that the American propagandists and spinners must have dreamed of. I cannot believe this was a fortuitous coincidence. He defeated the one-time favorite, the former President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani whose reputation and record would have made it almost impossible to demonize Iran as a threat to America or anyone else."
Icke continued:
"Mehdi Karroubi, a Reformist candidate seeking to open Iranian society and oppose the extremes of hardline Islam, finished a good third in the first round of voting. He then alleged that a network of mosques, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and Basij militia forces had illegally generated support for Ahmadinejad and specifically named Mojtaba Khamenei, a son of the Supreme Leader Ayatolla Khamenei, as being involved in this election fraud. The Ayatollah told Karroubi that the allegations were below his dignity and he would not allow the crisis in Iran that they could cause. Karroubi wrote back, resigning from all his political posts and some Reformist newspapers were stopped from publication for publishing Karroubi's letter."
Finally Icke says:
"British and American military intelligence ousted Prime Minister Dr. Mohammed Mossadegh in 1953 in a CIA-planned coup called Operation Ajax; imposed the vicious Shah of Iran as a dictator; and then removed him for the Ayatollah Khomeini in 1979. Why would the same forces not continue to be involved in election manipulation in Iran when they so badly needed Ahmadinejad to defeat Rafsanjani for their 'Axis of Evil' plan to work?"
On the domestic front, an example of the Illuminati "dialectic" at work is Rosie O'Donnell's recent pronouncements on 9-11. The Lesbian poster child sounds like Alex Jones. Her function is to cast the opposition in the mold of the 1960's anti-war movement, focusing blame on Bush and "the government" instead of the long-term international conspiracy ultimately responsible. You also see Brzezinski saying the war on terror "has undermined democracy" in the banker-owned Washington Post! That's pretty funny coming from one of the architects of this policy. He is trying to distance himself and his Rothschild-Rockefeller sponsors from their handiwork. Meanwhile Democrats in Congress try to placate an angry electorate with timetables for withdrawal. This is a diversion. Democracy is a charade. The US will never willingly withdraw from Iraq. The US is the Illuminati's goon.
CONCLUSION If the Illuminati have so much power, why don't they just proclaim their world dictatorship now? It's the process which is both incredibly profitable and necessary. Humanity must be gradually transformed so it sees its slavery as freedom: normal, natural and welcome. It's best to see war as the Illuminati's cement mixer. They just throw everything in (people, cultures, religions) break and mix and then reset in their own mold. They call it "creating order out of chaos" but first they create chaos. Their vision for the Middle East including Israel is as conformist and vapid as the EU.
Middle East-EU union is already on the drawing board. Wars also kill a lot of innocent people whose souls feed these vampires, as well as pesky idealists ("heroes"). The greatest barrier to understanding world events is our failure to imagine the dimensions of evil, and how readily people will serve Satan. If we have a war against Iran, it will be instigated by an international satanic cult, to further degrade destroy and demoralize humanity, especially in Iran and the US.
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
Return to The Actual Iran Case
Return to 'War on Terror'
