# The Police State Road Map - 10

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/policestate_roadmap/policestate_roadmap10.htm

Chapter 10 MARTIAL LAW
10.1 Martial Law Legislation 10.2 Foreign Troops 10.3 Gun Confiscation
From recent pronouncements and legislative developments it appears both the U.S. and U.K. governments may suspend Parliamentary democracy after the next major terror attack.
With the War on Terror expected to go on forever, we may soon find ourselves under a form of indefinite martial law. What is likely to be the purpose of this scenario for the police state planners? The populace will be required to surrender rights to life, liberty and property for short term expediency. This will be the window of opportunity the planners need to purge dissident groups and exploit the popular panic to introduce permanent legal or constitutional changes. The former objective is uppermost in the minds of the American police state planners. Unlike their British counterparts, they have a large gun-owning New World Order savvy population to contend with. This is not merely the Michigan Militia, but the hundreds of thousands, possibly millions of ordinary Americans who log on to free-thinking websites and listen to uncensored talk radio. Some of these folk, especially the Christians, are targets of the regime and could be dealt with in the manner of the Waco and Ruby Ridge atrocities. In the U.K. the planners are principally troubled by the eurosceptics who are creating serious popular discontent about the European project. Their approach to the problem may not be quite as 'hands on' as the bully boys in the U.S., but times of crisis offer great opportunity for restricting communication, dirty tricks, deception and propaganda.
10.1 LEGISLATION
HITLER'S ENABLING ACT After burning down the Reichstag building (home to the German parliament) on 27th February 1933, the Nazis blamed it on the communists and persuaded President Hindenberg to issue a decree invoking article 48 of the Weimar constitution. This placed draconian restrictions on civil liberties which enabled the Nazis to persecute their political opponents in the run up to the elections on 5 March. However the elections failed to deliver Hitler the two-thirds majority necessary to dismantle the constitution. Therefore he continued to use the police state powers of article 48 to intimidate his political opponents. On 23rd March the newly elected Reichstag convened and passed the Enabling Act allowing Hitler to exercise dictatorial rule for four years. In 1937 the act was renewed and remained in force until the collapse of the regime in 1945. UK When the Draft Civil Contingencies Bill was published in 2003, it created a furore among civil liberties groups and Members of Parliament. One committee member, former Tory whip, Lord Lucas of Crudwell, raised the prospect that "once a state of emergency is declared [the government] can effectively tear up the rest of the constitution and any bits of this bill [they do not like] and create a republic...". Ms Chakrabati spokesman for Liberty agreed that the most "colourful scenario" could see a secretary of state with "absolute legislative power", theoretically mounting a threat to the whole U.K. constitution.(1) Justified as a "modernization" of the existing 1920 Emergency Powers Act, the Bill proposed to give the police power to run the Internet, Utilities including the phones, transport, local government, and the postal service.(2) If the new measures were introduced, the Government would be able to prohibit any assembly or activity it believed threatened national security. The laws would allow ministers to declare a state of emergency by consulting Her Majesty The Queen but not Parliament. The Draft Civil Contingencies Bill also allowed police to enforce "emergency cordons" in major British cities in the event of a terrorist attack. The new laws would allow police to stop the spread of infection by throwing "health cordons" around areas hit by biological or chemical attacks, according to the Sunday Times newspaper. It said that people would be prevented from escaping from the affected area. Specially trained armed police and military units would be sent in to enforce the cordons and control any outbreak of disorder including looting. The Ministry of Defence told the newspaper that a new civil contingency reaction force would have the option of using live ammunition. The 7,000-strong force is to be deployed to 14 regions in 2004.(3) Plans have been drawn up by the Government for a mass evacuation of London in the event of a terrorist attack, reported The Sunday Times in Sept. 2003. Leaked documents detail how residents could be herded into "rest and reception areas" in the Home Counties. Disturbingly it talks about long term rehousing if an attack made an area uninhabitable, raising the possibility of internment and massive government orchestrated confiscation of valuable real estate in the capital.(4) These new executive powers should also be seen in the context of a drive for a national police force. The war against terrorism is set to be masterminded by a new U.K. police force dubbed "Blunkett's Stormtroopers", Scotland on Sunday revealed.(5) The Civil Contingencies Act was passed into law on 18 November 2004. I wrote two letters to my M.P. expressing my own concerns about the Act and was delighted to receive detailed replies from Ruth Kelly, Minister for the Cabinet Office on both occasions. She would not accept my reasoning that the important difference between the old and new legislation is that, whereas under the old Act, emergency powers were explicitly restricted to protecting public interests, the new Act makes no such stipulation, allowing them to be used to protect government or financial interests with the associated abuses of power that could entail. The exchange of letters is reproduced on policestateplanning.com USA General Tommy Franks, former leader of the coalition forces in Iraq says that if the United States is hit with a weapon of mass destruction that inflicts large casualties, the Constitution will likely be discarded in favor of a military form of government. The General issued the warning in the December 2003 issue of men's magazine Cigar Afficionado. If that happens, Franks said, "... the Western world, the free world, loses what it cherishes most, and that is freedom and liberty we've seen for a couple of hundred years in this grand experiment that we call democracy."(6) FEMA The legislation for a massive internment operation in the U.S. was created when President Ronald Reagan was considering invading Nicaragua. He issued a series of executive orders that provided the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) with broad powers in the event of a "crisis" such as "violent and widespread internal dissent or national opposition against a U.S. military invasion abroad". From 1982-84 Colonel Oliver North assisted FEMA in drafting its civil defense preparations. Details of these plans emerged during the 1987 Iran-Contra scandal. They included executive orders providing for suspension of the constitution, the imposition of martial law, internment camps for over 21 million Americans, and the turning over of government to the president and FEMA. Disturbingly, the full facts and final contents of Mr Reagan's national plan remain uncertain. This is in part because President Bush took the unusual step of sealing the Reagan presidential papers in November 2002. (7) Recent photographs of several gigantic holding areas with guard towers and razor wire are available to view at http://www.apfn.org/apfn/camps.htm Some of the emergency measures made public by FEMA strongly indicate that martial law provisions drawn up by Col. Oliver North under Reagan will be fully operational. On 14 February 2003 the Washington Post reported that Washington DC area schools were planning to prevent parents from picking up their own children in the event of a terrorist attack.(8) In Bolton, Massachusetts, Nashoba regional school district told parents that they would not be allowed to pick up their children during a red alert. Not only will they deny parents their right to pick up their children, they will bus the children to a "secret location".(9) On 16 March 2003 a Ganett News Service headline read: Red Alert? Stay Home, Await Word. If the nation escalates to "red alert," which is the highest in the color-coded readiness against terror, you will be assumed by authorities to be the enemy if you so much as venture outside your home." (10) Furthermore the Justice Dept. under Tom Ridge has indicated that the military will be used by FEMA to police an emergency after they have revised the Posse Comitatus law. "Posse Comitatus will constantly be under review as we mature this command, as we do our exercises, as we interact with FEMA, F.B.I., and those lead federal agencies out there," said Pentagon spokesman General Eberhart in July 2002.(11) The Posse Comitatus Act that restricts the use of the military in domestic law enforcement operations was enacted after the Civil War in response to the perceived misuse of federal troops who were charged with keeping order in the South.(12) However, documentary film-maker Alex Jones reveals that Posse Comitatus is already dead. In Texas, U.S. Army soldiers have been performing civilian law enforcement duties off base. According to a U.S. Army SWAT Entry Team Leader with the 38th MP unit at Fort Hood, the City of Killeen has been using the Fort Hood SWAT Team to serve warrants and arrest civilians for at least the past two years.(13) QUARANTINE AND FORCED VACCINATION Under The Model State Emergency Health Powers Act drawn up for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in November 2001, in the event of a bio-terrorist attack, public health officials want to be able to close roads and airports, herd people into stadiums and, if necessary, quarantine entire infected cities. The "Mandatory Medical Examinations" section (602) of the law, persons refusing to submit to medical examinations and/or testings are liable for misdemeanors and forced isolation. If public health authorities suspect individuals may have been exposed to broadly defined infectious diseases, or otherwise pose a risk to public health, officials may issue detainment orders. In the case of an urban attack, or even one suspected, thousands of people could possibly be marshalled into isolation camps, according to the law. In this case, physicians, assisted by police, will be required to perform state medical examinations and tests. Under the law, "infectious diseases" are very broadly defined. An infectious disease may, or may not, be transmissible from person to person, animal to person, or insect to person. Isolation regulations in the law provide the State with power to commandeer private properties wherein individuals deemed infected, or exposed, might be housed under quarantine. Section 604 of the Act details vaccination and treatment protocols. Following these mandates, public health authorities may compel people to be inoculated and/or drugged by the State. Individuals refusing to be vaccinated or treated would be liable for a misdemeanor, subject to police arrest, isolation or quarantine. The "model legislation" exempts the State, its political subdivisions, including the Governor, public health authorities, the police, or other State officials, from liabilities associated with the death or injury to persons, or damage to property, as a result of complying with, or attempting to comply with, the Act. Furthermore, "Section 807" repeals existing state laws that are in conflict with the Act. Under this part, for instance, previous laws granting medical, religious, or philosophical exemptions to vaccination would be repealed. (14)(15) Because the all States did not pass this draft legislation unamended, on 13 November 2002, the Homeland Security Act HR5710, which created the Department of Homeland Security, contained a provision giving the Secretary of Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) power to order the forcible innoculation of all Americans with the Smallpox vaccine. He would only have to declare the "potential" of a bio-terror attack to invoke such power.(16)(17)
HITLER'S ENABLING ACT After burning down the Reichstag building (home to the German parliament) on 27th February 1933, the Nazis blamed it on the communists and persuaded President Hindenberg to issue a decree invoking article 48 of the Weimar constitution. This placed draconian restrictions on civil liberties which enabled the Nazis to persecute their political opponents in the run up to the elections on 5 March. However the elections failed to deliver Hitler the two-thirds majority necessary to dismantle the constitution.
Therefore he continued to use the police state powers of article 48 to intimidate his political opponents. On 23rd March the newly elected Reichstag convened and passed the Enabling Act allowing Hitler to exercise dictatorial rule for four years. In 1937 the act was renewed and remained in force until the collapse of the regime in 1945.
UK When the Draft Civil Contingencies Bill was published in 2003, it created a furore among civil liberties groups and Members of Parliament. One committee member, former Tory whip, Lord Lucas of Crudwell, raised the prospect that "once a state of emergency is declared [the government] can effectively tear up the rest of the constitution and any bits of this bill [they do not like] and create a republic...". Ms Chakrabati spokesman for Liberty agreed that the most "colourful scenario" could see a secretary of state with "absolute legislative power", theoretically mounting a threat to the whole U.K. constitution.(1)
Justified as a "modernization" of the existing 1920 Emergency Powers Act, the Bill proposed to give the police power to run the Internet, Utilities including the phones, transport, local government, and the postal service.(2) If the new measures were introduced, the Government would be able to prohibit any assembly or activity it believed threatened national security. The laws would allow ministers to declare a state of emergency by consulting Her Majesty The Queen but not Parliament. The Draft Civil Contingencies Bill also allowed police to enforce "emergency cordons" in major British cities in the event of a terrorist attack. The new laws would allow police to stop the spread of infection by throwing "health cordons" around areas hit by biological or chemical attacks, according to the Sunday Times newspaper.
It said that people would be prevented from escaping from the affected area. Specially trained armed police and military units would be sent in to enforce the cordons and control any outbreak of disorder including looting. The Ministry of Defence told the newspaper that a new civil contingency reaction force would have the option of using live ammunition. The 7,000-strong force is to be deployed to 14 regions in 2004.(3) Plans have been drawn up by the Government for a mass evacuation of London in the event of a terrorist attack, reported The Sunday Times in Sept. 2003. Leaked documents detail how residents could be herded into "rest and reception areas" in the Home Counties. Disturbingly it talks about long term rehousing if an attack made an area uninhabitable, raising the possibility of internment and massive government orchestrated confiscation of valuable real estate in the capital.(4) These new executive powers should also be seen in the context of a drive for a national police force. The war against terrorism is set to be masterminded by a new U.K. police force dubbed "Blunkett's Stormtroopers", Scotland on Sunday revealed.(5) The Civil Contingencies Act was passed into law on 18 November 2004. I wrote two letters to my M.P. expressing my own concerns about the Act and was delighted to receive detailed replies from Ruth Kelly, Minister for the Cabinet Office on both occasions. She would not accept my reasoning that the important difference between the old and new legislation is that, whereas under the old Act, emergency powers were explicitly restricted to protecting public interests, the new Act makes no such stipulation, allowing them to be used to protect government or financial interests with the associated abuses of power that could entail. The exchange of letters is reproduced on policestateplanning.com
USA General Tommy Franks, former leader of the coalition forces in Iraq says that if the United States is hit with a weapon of mass destruction that inflicts large casualties, the Constitution will likely be discarded in favor of a military form of government. The General issued the warning in the December 2003 issue of men's magazine Cigar Afficionado. If that happens, Franks said, "... the Western world, the free world, loses what it cherishes most, and that is freedom and liberty we've seen for a couple of hundred years in this grand experiment that we call democracy."(6)
FEMA The legislation for a massive internment operation in the U.S. was created when President Ronald Reagan was considering invading Nicaragua. He issued a series of executive orders that provided the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) with broad powers in the event of a "crisis" such as "violent and widespread internal dissent or national opposition against a U.S. military invasion abroad". From 1982-84 Colonel Oliver North assisted FEMA in drafting its civil defense preparations.
Details of these plans emerged during the 1987 Iran-Contra scandal. They included executive orders providing for suspension of the constitution, the imposition of martial law, internment camps for over 21 million Americans, and the turning over of government to the president and FEMA. Disturbingly, the full facts and final contents of Mr Reagan's national plan remain uncertain. This is in part because President Bush took the unusual step of sealing the Reagan presidential papers in November 2002. (7) Recent photographs of several gigantic holding areas with guard towers and razor wire are available to view at http://www.apfn.org/apfn/camps.htm Some of the emergency measures made public by FEMA strongly indicate that martial law provisions drawn up by Col. Oliver North under Reagan will be fully operational. On 14 February 2003 the Washington Post reported that Washington DC area schools were planning to prevent parents from picking up their own children in the event of a terrorist attack.(8) In Bolton, Massachusetts, Nashoba regional school district told parents that they would not be allowed to pick up their children during a red alert. Not only will they deny parents their right to pick up their children, they will bus the children to a "secret location".(9) On 16 March 2003 a Ganett News Service headline read:
Red Alert? Stay Home, Await Word. If the nation escalates to "red alert," which is the highest in the color-coded readiness against terror, you will be assumed by authorities to be the enemy if you so much as venture outside your home." (10)
Furthermore the Justice Dept. under Tom Ridge has indicated that the military will be used by FEMA to police an emergency after they have revised the Posse Comitatus law. "Posse Comitatus will constantly be under review as we mature this command, as we do our exercises, as we interact with FEMA, F.B.I., and those lead federal agencies out there," said Pentagon spokesman General Eberhart in July 2002.(11) The Posse Comitatus Act that restricts the use of the military in domestic law enforcement operations was enacted after the Civil War in response to the perceived misuse of federal troops who were charged with keeping order in the South.(12) However, documentary film-maker Alex Jones reveals that Posse Comitatus is already dead.
In Texas, U.S. Army soldiers have been performing civilian law enforcement duties off base. According to a U.S. Army SWAT Entry Team Leader with the 38th MP unit at Fort Hood, the City of Killeen has been using the Fort Hood SWAT Team to serve warrants and arrest civilians for at least the past two years.(13)
QUARANTINE AND FORCED VACCINATION Under The Model State Emergency Health Powers Act drawn up for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in November 2001, in the event of a bio-terrorist attack, public health officials want to be able to close roads and airports, herd people into stadiums and, if necessary, quarantine entire infected cities. The "Mandatory Medical Examinations" section (602) of the law, persons refusing to submit to medical examinations and/or testings are liable for misdemeanors and forced isolation.
If public health authorities suspect individuals may have been exposed to broadly defined infectious diseases, or otherwise pose a risk to public health, officials may issue detainment orders. In the case of an urban attack, or even one suspected, thousands of people could possibly be marshalled into isolation camps, according to the law. In this case, physicians, assisted by police, will be required to perform state medical examinations and tests. Under the law, "infectious diseases" are very broadly defined.
An infectious disease may, or may not, be transmissible from person to person, animal to person, or insect to person. Isolation regulations in the law provide the State with power to commandeer private properties wherein individuals deemed infected, or exposed, might be housed under quarantine. Section 604 of the Act details vaccination and treatment protocols. Following these mandates, public health authorities may compel people to be inoculated and/or drugged by the State.
Individuals refusing to be vaccinated or treated would be liable for a misdemeanor, subject to police arrest, isolation or quarantine. The "model legislation" exempts the State, its political subdivisions, including the Governor, public health authorities, the police, or other State officials, from liabilities associated with the death or injury to persons, or damage to property, as a result of complying with, or attempting to comply with, the Act. Furthermore, "Section 807" repeals existing state laws that are in conflict with the Act. Under this part, for instance, previous laws granting medical, religious, or philosophical exemptions to vaccination would be repealed. (14)(15) Because the all States did not pass this draft legislation unamended, on 13 November 2002, the Homeland Security Act HR5710, which created the Department of Homeland Security, contained a provision giving the Secretary of Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) power to order the forcible innoculation of all Americans with the Smallpox vaccine. He would only have to declare the "potential" of a bio-terror attack to invoke such power.(16)(17)
10.2 FOREIGN TROOPS Alex Jones videoed a major urban warfare training exercise in Oakland California in 1999. This is corroborated by the U.S. Defense Dept.'s own website on Operation Urban Warrior at http://www.defenselink.mil/specials/urbanwarrior/. Troops from Britain, Australia, and The Netherlands trained with U.S. military and police in direct violation of the Posse Comitatus law forbidding the military from assuming civilian police powers.
Alex Jones commentates:
During Operation Urban Warrior, actors posed as American citizens who were unconstitutionally seized from their homes by the military and police. These Americans were rounded up and confined behind barbed-wire. The actors were told to demand to be let free and state that they had rights. They were also told to demand food and water. The troops in turn were taught to ignore them and to order them to behave in an orderly fashion. "Civil disobedience will not be tolerated", was one of the many disturbing statements heard to emanate from the military's loud speakers.(18)
The Defense Dept. states that part of the task was to "conduct a mid-intensity combat operation in an urban environment against a backdrop of civil unrest, and restore order. "(19) Urban Warfare training has taken place in numerous cities over the 1990's including San Antonio, Chicago, Kingsville (Texas), and Pittsburgh. It is now becoming clear exactly who is going to do the real dirty work against opponents of the New World Order. The proposal for a NATO "rapid reaction force" came from Trojan Horse Donald Rumsfeld in September 2002.(20) The agreement to Rumsfeld's plan was achieved in Prague in November 2002. At the same time Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia were invited to join NATO in 2004. (21)
Another three countries - Croatia, Albania, and Macedonia - hope to join the organization in the next few years.
Who better to put Americans in detention camps than their old communist enemies? On 22nd September 2003, a NATO exercise in Galloway, Scotland saw Ukrainian troops pulling unsuspecting motorists out of their cars in a mock hunt for suspected terrorists. This formed part of a much larger NATO "crisis response" operation called Exercise Northern Lights, a training run for the new NATO Response Force, as it is now called, expected to be partially operational by October 2004 and fully operational by 2006.(22)
The Galloway operation and a second operation in Turkey on 20 November 2003. According to the NATO website, "The forces rescued and evacuated the U.N. staff and civilians, established an embargo, engaged in counter-terrorist operations and a show of force". Interestingly, it occurred on the same day as terrorists bombed the British Embassy and HSBC bank in Istanbul, killing 27 people.(23) In order to justify bringing in foreign troops to combat domestic "terrorism", the U.S. Government will send the National Guard abroad to fight. In 2003, 174,000 of the 350,000 reserves and national guard were on active duty.(24) Since the 1991 Gulf War, the U.S. Government has increased the number of National Guard and reserves in foreign operations. During the Vietnam War, only 8,700 were deployed but over 75,000 Army and Air Guardsmen were called upon to help bring a swift end to Desert Storm in 1991.
Since that time, the National Guard has seen the nature of its Federal mission change, with more frequent call ups in response to crises in Haiti, Bosnia, Kosovo, and the skies over Iraq.(25)
10.3 GUN CONFISCATION
Firearms: Everyone should have one and know how to use and clean it - it may just save your life. But more importantly there's nothing that demoralizes an invading enemy more than being shot at. -George Orwell, advice to the Home Guard, 1939. Source: BBC documentary, George Orwell: A Life In Pictures, 14 June 2003
Firearms: Everyone should have one and know how to use and clean it - it may just save your life. But more importantly there's nothing that demoralizes an invading enemy more than being shot at.
-George Orwell, advice to the Home Guard, 1939. Source: BBC documentary, George Orwell: A Life In Pictures, 14 June 2003
Whether guns cause or prevent crime and need to be controlled for this reason is a controversial issue for many people. However, it is clear from history that civilian ownership of firearms is a major deterrent to tyrannical governments. This is why the current move towards gun control in the U.S., supported by the U.N. campaign against small arms, should be viewed with grave suspicion. Unarmed or disarmed citizens are far more likely to be murdered by governments than by common criminals or to die in wars. Gun control laws are often imposed by governments with murderous intent. Writing in The Arizona Journal of International & Comparative Law No. 3, 483-535 (2000) Stephen Halbrook argues that German Jews and other German opponents of Hitler were not destined to be helpless and passive victims. The 1928 Weimar Law on Firearms and Ammunition required the registration of most lawfully owned firearms, as do the laws of some American states.
The Weimar registration programme provided the information which the Nazis needed to disarm the Jews and others considered untrustworthy. In November 1938, the Nazis passed their own Weapons Law which banned Jews from the firearms business and required surrender of all firearms and edged weapons. In the same month came The Night of the Broken Glass (Kristallnacht) - the infamous Nazi rampage against Germany's Jews. Aside from the Jews there was almost no resistance in Germany itself, because the Nazis had enjoyed years in which they could enforce the gun laws to ensure that no potential opponent of the regime had the means to resist.
Under the Weimar Law, the German police were granted complete discretion to deny licenses to criminals or individuals the police deemed untrustworthy. The Nazi disarmament campaign began as soon as Hitler assumed power in 1933. Other European countries also had laws requiring police records to be kept on persons who possessed firearms. When the Nazis took over Czechoslovakia and Poland in 1939, it was a simple matter to identify gun owners. Many of them disappeared in the middle of the night along with political opponents.
The invasion of Belgium, Holland and France in May 1940 was accompanied by a law called Regulations on Arms Possession in the Occupied Zone which ordered the surrender of all firearms and munitions on pain of death. Switzerland was the only country in Europe, indeed in the world, where every man had a military rifle in his home. Nazi invasion plans acknowledged the dissuasive nature of this armed populace.(26) In a review by David B. Kopel of the book entitled Lethal Laws, published by Jews for the Preservation of Firearms, Kopel gives a stark warning to advocates of gun control. All of the major tyrannical regimes of the twentieth century imposed restrictive gun laws on the populations before they murdered and terrorized them en masse. The countries examined were Ottoman Turkey, USSR, Nazi Germany, China, Guatemala, Uganda, and Cambodia. The same thing happened in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia at the time the book was written. R.J. Rummel, the world's foremost scholar of the mass murders of the 20th century and finalist for 1996 Nobel Peace Prize, gives statistical dimension to state sponsored murder. Statistics of Democide,1997, and Death by Government,1994, provide data on mass murder by governments throughout the 20th century. In chapter 2 of Death by Government he defines the murder of civilians and POW's by governments - in contrast to soldiers dying in combat and civilians who are killed unintentionally during war - as " democide ":
Democide's necessary and sufficient meaning is that of the intentional government killing of an unarmed or disarmed person or people. [emphasis added] (27)
What is the track record of governments of undemocratic countries murdering unarmed citizens? According to table 1.6 in Death By Government, the average estimate of the total number of victims of government sponsored mass murder over the twentieth century was 169,202, 000. If the military and civilian deaths caused by war for the whole twentieth century are added, the death total only rises to an estimated 203,000,000.(28) The more alarming fact about Rummel's statistics is that the ratio of governments murdering their own citizens to foreign citizens is approximately 3 to 1. Rummel says that of the 169,202,000 democide deaths, 129,908,000 were domestic killings. The biggest murder of citizens by their own governments took place in Russia and China under Stalin and Mao. The Nazis killed mostly foreigners (estimate 20 million) and only about a million of their own. According to Rummel, the People's Republic of China killed a statistically insignificant number of foreigners but a median estimate of 35 million of their own between 1945 and 1987. The USSR killed about 54 million of their own but only 7 million foreigners 1917-1987.(29) Equally important to our current predicament is Rummell's observation in Power Kills that democide is highly and inversely related to democracy and that democracies never make war on each other:
There is one solution to each and the solution in each case is the same. It is to foster democratic freedom and to democratize coercive power and force. That is, mass killing and mass murder carried out by government is a result of indiscriminate, irresponsible power at the center. Or in terms of the title of this book, power kills. (30)
The most powerful person and the driving force behind the New World Order in the U.S. for the last few decades has been David Rockefeller. In an article in the New York Times, 10 August 1973, he was quoted:
Whatever the price of the Chinese Revolution, it has obviously succeeded not only in producing more efficient and dedicated administration, but also in fostering high morale and community of purpose. The social experiment in China under Chairman Mao's leadership is one of the most important and successful in human history.
David Rockefeller still heads the CFR and Bilderberg group which are working to relinquish American national sovereignty to the United Nations. Stephen Rockefeller works with ex-KGB chief Mikhael Gorbachev to formulate and promote the radical U.N. environmental laws. Since 9/11, Western countries become less and less democratic every day at an alarming pace; this process is being coordinated internationally.
Of the seven genocidal governments studied in Lethal Laws, not one announced its intention to its victims. All of the victims were told that they were being temporarily relocated or another lie in order to induce them not to resist. And one of the reasons that the lies were believed by so many people is that there are many governments throughout world history which have sent people on forced marches or other forms of forced relocation and not killed them. Currently, the Bush Administration is contemplating a draft of civilian professionals into the U.S. Army to be sent over to the Middle East.
These are America's middle class - engineers, doctors, etc. It has consistently lied to its regular troops about the length of time they will stay in Iraq. At this time, it appears they will be there for years to come. Over three hundred thousand U.S. troops who have served in the Gulf Region since 1990 are now seriously ill with Gulf War Illness and tens of thousands more have died from it.
Chapter 10 End Notes
Terror laws are 'needless totalitarianism', BBC, London, 17 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/3114552.stm and Terror threat sparks new powers, 26 Nov. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/3236844.stm David Leppard, Police will run internet after terrorist attack, The Times Online, London, 15 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/police_will_run_internet_after_terrorist_attack.htm 'Terror cordon' plan for UK cities, BBC, London, 2 Dec. 2002. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/2612319.stm Peter Fray, London could be evacuated if attacked, The Sydney Morning Herald, 8 Sept. 2003. See http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2003/09/07/1062901944298.html Ian Johnston, 'Blunkett's Stormtroopers' to open new front in war against terrorism, Scotland on Sunday, 10 Aug. 2003. See http://www.scotlandonsunday.com/uk.cfm?id=873642003 Martial Law Will Replace Constitution After Next Terror Attack, Newsmax, 21 Nov. 2003. See http://www.infowars.com/print/ps/franks_martial.htm Ritt Goldstein, Foundations are in place for martial law in the US, Sydne Morning Herald, 27 July 2002 http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2002/07/27/1027497418339.html David Cho, Schools Boost Preparations for Attack, Many Anti-Terror Plans Would StopParents From Picking Up Children, Washington Post, 14 February 2003. See http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn?pagename=article&node=&contentId=A5447-2003Feb13¬Found=true Document sent by a parent to Alex Jones, radio talk show host in Austin TX. See http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg1.htm http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg2.htm http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg3.htm Tom Baldwin, Red Alert? Stay home await word, Gannett News Service, Trenton NJ, 16 March 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/red_alert_stay_home_await_word Northern Command General Endorses Posse Comitatus Review, Newsmax, 22 July 2002. See http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/7/22/01218.shtml Gene Healy, Misguided Mission for Military, The Cato Institute, 31 July 2002. See http://www.cato-institute.org/research/articles/healy-020731.html Martial Law Has Begun, Alex Jones. See http://www.infowars.com/martiallaw.html CDC Advances Totalitarian Legislation Under Guise of "Public Health", Tetrahedron, LLC, Health Science Communications, 9 Nov. 2001. See http://tetrahedron.org/news/NR011109.html The Model State Emergency Health Powers Act, Draft Legislation as of December 2001, The Center for Law and The Public's Health. See http://www.publichealthlaw.net/MSEHPA/MSEHPA2.pdf Congressman Ron Paul, U.S. House of Representatives, Oppose The New Homeland Security Bureaucracy, 13 Nov. 2002. See http://www.house.gov/paul/congrec/congrec2002/cr111302.htm Section 304, Homeland Security Act, 2002. See http://www.cdi.org/terrorism/homeland-security.pdf Alex Jones, Operation Urban Warrior, Infowars.com. See http://www.infowars.com/ouwmar9901.html Gar Smith, One nation under guard, The San Francisco Bay Guardian, 10 March 1999. See http://www.sfbg.com/News/33/23/Features/war.html Rumsfeld Plans to Propose NATO Rapid Reaction Force, Defense Secretary Interview with CNN, 21 Sept. 2002. See copy on US Dept of State website http://usinfo.state.gov/regional/nea/iraq/text/0922rmfd.htm Quick Guide: Nato, BBC, 19 Nov. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/country_profiles/1549072.stm Ukrainian marines stop drivers. BBC, London, 23 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/3131058.stm and Scottish coast to host war games, BBC, London, 11 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/3100730.stm Response Force demonstrates capability in first exercise, NATO website. See http://www.nato.int/shape/news/2003/11/i031121a.htm Iraq effect shakes National Guard, Christian Science Monitor, 18 Sept. 2003. See http://www.csmonitor.com/2003/0918/p02s01-usmi.html National Guard Fact Sheet, National Guard website. See http://www.ngb.army.mil/downloads/fact_sheets/arng.asp Stephen Halbrook, Nazi Firearms and the Disarming of the German Jews. See Stephen Halbrook's website for article at http://www.stephenhalbrook.com/article-nazilaw.pdf also reviewed by David Kopel and Richard Griffiths, Hitler's Control, The lessons of Nazi history. National Review Online 22 May 2003 http://www.nationalreview.com/kopel/kopel052203.asp Halbrook's article is also a chapter in a book published by Jews for the Preservation of Firearms called Death By Gun Control. Halbrook cites a review by David Kopel of an earlier JPFA publication called Lethal Laws by Jay Simkin, Aaron Zelman, & Alan M. Rice. See http://www.jpfo.org and http://www.lethallaws.com/kopel.htm. published on-line at http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.CHAP2.HTM R.J. Rummel, Death By Government, New Brunswick, N.J.:Transaction Publishers,1994,Table 1.6. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.TAB1.6.GIF R.J. Rummel, Statistics of Democide: Genocide and Mass Murder Since 1900, Charlottesville, Virginia: Center for National Security Law, School of Law, University of Virginia,1997; and Transaction Publishers, Rutgers University, Table 16A. Summary Democide Totals. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/SOD.TAB16A.1.GIF R.J. Rummel, Power Kills, Democracy as a Method of Nonviolence, New Brunswick,N.J.:Transaction Publishers, 1997. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/PK.CHAP1.HTM
Terror laws are 'needless totalitarianism', BBC, London, 17 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/3114552.stm and Terror threat sparks new powers, 26 Nov. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/3236844.stm
David Leppard, Police will run internet after terrorist attack, The Times Online, London, 15 June 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/police_will_run_internet_after_terrorist_attack.htm
'Terror cordon' plan for UK cities, BBC, London, 2 Dec. 2002. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/2612319.stm
Peter Fray, London could be evacuated if attacked, The Sydney Morning Herald, 8 Sept. 2003. See http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2003/09/07/1062901944298.html
Ian Johnston, 'Blunkett's Stormtroopers' to open new front in war against terrorism, Scotland on Sunday, 10 Aug. 2003. See http://www.scotlandonsunday.com/uk.cfm?id=873642003
Martial Law Will Replace Constitution After Next Terror Attack, Newsmax, 21 Nov. 2003. See http://www.infowars.com/print/ps/franks_martial.htm
Ritt Goldstein, Foundations are in place for martial law in the US, Sydne Morning Herald, 27 July 2002 http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2002/07/27/1027497418339.html
David Cho, Schools Boost Preparations for Attack, Many Anti-Terror Plans Would StopParents From Picking Up Children, Washington Post, 14 February 2003. See http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn?pagename=article&node=&contentId=A5447-2003Feb13¬Found=true
Document sent by a parent to Alex Jones, radio talk show host in Austin TX. See http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg1.htm http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg2.htm http://infowars.com/print_sovietschoolspg3.htm
Tom Baldwin, Red Alert? Stay home await word, Gannett News Service, Trenton NJ, 16 March 2003. See http://www.propagandamatrix.com/red_alert_stay_home_await_word
Northern Command General Endorses Posse Comitatus Review, Newsmax, 22 July 2002. See http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/7/22/01218.shtml
Gene Healy, Misguided Mission for Military, The Cato Institute, 31 July 2002. See http://www.cato-institute.org/research/articles/healy-020731.html
Martial Law Has Begun, Alex Jones. See http://www.infowars.com/martiallaw.html
CDC Advances Totalitarian Legislation Under Guise of "Public Health", Tetrahedron, LLC, Health Science Communications, 9 Nov. 2001. See http://tetrahedron.org/news/NR011109.html
The Model State Emergency Health Powers Act, Draft Legislation as of December 2001, The Center for Law and The Public's Health. See http://www.publichealthlaw.net/MSEHPA/MSEHPA2.pdf
Congressman Ron Paul, U.S. House of Representatives, Oppose The New Homeland Security Bureaucracy, 13 Nov. 2002. See http://www.house.gov/paul/congrec/congrec2002/cr111302.htm
Section 304, Homeland Security Act, 2002. See http://www.cdi.org/terrorism/homeland-security.pdf
Alex Jones, Operation Urban Warrior, Infowars.com. See http://www.infowars.com/ouwmar9901.html
Gar Smith, One nation under guard, The San Francisco Bay Guardian, 10 March 1999. See http://www.sfbg.com/News/33/23/Features/war.html
Rumsfeld Plans to Propose NATO Rapid Reaction Force, Defense Secretary Interview with CNN, 21 Sept. 2002. See copy on US Dept of State website http://usinfo.state.gov/regional/nea/iraq/text/0922rmfd.htm
Quick Guide: Nato, BBC, 19 Nov. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/country_profiles/1549072.stm
Ukrainian marines stop drivers. BBC, London, 23 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/3131058.stm and Scottish coast to host war games, BBC, London, 11 Sept. 2003. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/3100730.stm
Response Force demonstrates capability in first exercise, NATO website. See http://www.nato.int/shape/news/2003/11/i031121a.htm
Iraq effect shakes National Guard, Christian Science Monitor, 18 Sept. 2003. See http://www.csmonitor.com/2003/0918/p02s01-usmi.html
National Guard Fact Sheet, National Guard website. See http://www.ngb.army.mil/downloads/fact_sheets/arng.asp
Stephen Halbrook, Nazi Firearms and the Disarming of the German Jews. See Stephen Halbrook's website for article at http://www.stephenhalbrook.com/article-nazilaw.pdf also reviewed by David Kopel and Richard Griffiths, Hitler's Control, The lessons of Nazi history. National Review Online 22 May 2003 http://www.nationalreview.com/kopel/kopel052203.asp Halbrook's article is also a chapter in a book published by Jews for the Preservation of Firearms called Death By Gun Control. Halbrook cites a review by David Kopel of an earlier JPFA publication called Lethal Laws by Jay Simkin, Aaron Zelman, & Alan M. Rice. See http://www.jpfo.org and http://www.lethallaws.com/kopel.htm.
published on-line at http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.CHAP2.HTM
R.J. Rummel, Death By Government, New Brunswick, N.J.:Transaction Publishers,1994,Table 1.6. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.TAB1.6.GIF
R.J. Rummel, Statistics of Democide: Genocide and Mass Murder Since 1900, Charlottesville, Virginia: Center for National Security Law, School of Law, University of Virginia,1997; and Transaction Publishers, Rutgers University, Table 16A. Summary Democide Totals. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/SOD.TAB16A.1.GIF
R.J. Rummel, Power Kills, Democracy as a Method of Nonviolence, New Brunswick,N.J.:Transaction Publishers, 1997. See http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/PK.CHAP1.HTM
Back to Contents
Back to Martial Law in USA?
