# The Brookings Institute

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/elite/brookings.htm

The Brookings Institute
President
Board of
Trustees
President
Former U.S. Ambassador
Michael H. Armacost has held the position of
President of the Brookings Institution
since October 2, 1995. During his twenty-four years in government, he served as
U.S. Ambassador to Japan, U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines, Under Secretary of
State for Political Affairs, and as a senior policymaker at the National
Security Council and the Department of Defense. From 1993 to 1995 he was
Distinguished Senior Fellow and Visiting Professor at Stanford University’s
Asia/Pacific Research Center.
Dr. Armacost was educated at Carleton College,
Friedrich Wilhelms University, and Columbia University. He has taught and
lectured at Pomona College, Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University, and
International Christian University. He is the author of three books; the most
recent, an analysis of Japan and the United States in the post cold war world,
was published in 1996. Dr. Armacost has received the President’s Distinguished
Service Award, the Defense
Department’s Distinguished Civilian Service
Award, and the Secretary of State’s Distinguished Service
Award.
He is a trustee of Carleton College, the Asia Foundation, and director of the American Academy of Diplomacy; a director of AFLAC, director of Applied Materials, director of Cargill, a director of USEC and TRW; and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission, and the National Academy of Public Administration. (source)
He is also a member of the Aspen Strategy Group of the Aspen Institute.
From 1969-70 he was a White House Fellow.
He is the author of:
Terrorism
and U.S. Foreign Policy (with Paul R. Pillar) –read chapter
one- &
Peace
Process: American Diplomacy and the Arab-Israeli Conflict since 1967 (with
William B. Quandt) as well as many other
Brookings
publications.
(accurate as of June
2002)
Vice Chairman, Perseus, L.L.C
James A. Johnson is a Vice Chairman of Perseus. Beginning in January of 1990 and continuing through December 1999, Mr. Johnson served at Fannie Mae as Vice Chairman (1990), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1991-1998) and Chairman of the Executive Committee (1999). Prior to joining Fannie Mae, Johnson was a Managing Director in Corporate Finance at Lehman Brothers. Before joining Lehman, he was the president of Public Strategies, a Washington-based consulting firm he founded to advise corporations on strategic issues. From 1977 to 1981, Mr. Johnson was Executive Assistant to Vice President Walter F. Mondale, where he advised the Vice President on domestic and foreign policy and political matters. Earlier, he was employed by the Dayton Hudson Corporation, worked as a staff member in the U.S. Senate and was on the faculty at Princeton University.
Mr. Johnson serves as Chairman of The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Brookings Institution. Mr. Johnson also serves on the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; Cummins, Inc.; The Enterprise Foundation; Gannett, Inc.; KB Home; National Association on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome; National Housing Endowment; Target Corporation; Temple-Inland, Inc.; and UnitedHealth Group. He is also a member of The Business Council, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission and the American Friends of Bilderberg. In March 1994, Mr. Johnson was named “CEO of the Year” by The George Washington University School of Business and Public Management and, in 1998, he was named a “Washingtonian of the Year” by Washingtonian Magazine.
Mr. Johnson received a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Minnesota and an M.P.A. in Public Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton. In 1999, Mr. Johnson received an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters Degree from Howard University and, in 1997, he received an Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from Colby College.
http://207.19.194.179/bios_print_version.htm
**
Strobe Talbott, Deputy Secretary of State from 1994 to 2001 and a key architect of U.S. foreign policy for the past eight years, will return to Yale in July 2001 as professor in the field of International Relations and director of the new Yale Center for the Study of Globalization. Talbott is a 1968 graduate of Yale College and a former trustee of the University.
"Strobe Talbott's contributions to international relations have spanned the worlds of scholarship, journalism and diplomacy," said President Richard C. Levin when Talbott's appointment was announced recently. "He is superbly qualified to direct an effort that will draw on Yale's distinguished faculty to understand globalization, promote on-line dialogue about its implications, and facilitate the resolution of global and regional conflicts."
Talbott became Deputy Secretary of State in early 1994 after serving for a year as ambassador-at-large and special adviser to the Secretary of State on the new independent states. He entered public service after 21 years as an award-winning journalist for Time magazine, where he was editor-at-large, foreign affairs columnist, Washington bureau chief, State Department correspondent and White House correspondent.
A Rhodes scholar [at Oxford University, where he was good friends with Bill Clinton: source], Talbott is the translator and editor of Nikita Khrushchev's memoirs and the author of six books on diplomacy and U.S.-Soviet relations. Since becoming deputy secretary, he has written articles for The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Economist, The Financial Times, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy, The New York Review of Books, The Wall Street Journal, World Policy Journal and Slate.
Talbott has served as a director of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a trustee of the Trilateral Commission and a member of the Aspen Strategy Group.
http://www2.aya.yale.edu/clubs/hongkong/yale300/talbott.htm
Mr. Talbott entered government after 21 years as a journalist for TIME. His last position there was the magazine's Editor-at- Large and foreign affairs columnist. Prior to that, he was Washington Bureau Chief for 5 years. His earlier assignments for TIME were Diplomatic Correspondent (1977-84), White House correspondent during the Ford Administration (1975-76), State Department correspondent when Henry Kissinger was Secretary of State (1974-75), and Eastern Europe correspondent for 2 years in the early 1970s.
Mr. Talbott is the author of several books on diplomacy and U.S.-Soviet relations. He translated and edited two volumes of Nikita Khrushchev's memoirs, published in 1970 and 1974. He wrote a series of three books on U.S.-Soviet arms control: Endgame: The Inside Story of SALT II (1979), Deadly Gambits: The Reagan Administration and the Stalemate in Nuclear Arms Control (1984), and Master of the Game: Paul Nitze and the Nuclear Peace (1988). He is also the author of The Russians and Reagan (1984) and the co-author, with Michael Mandelbaum, of Reagan and Gorbachev (1987) and, with Michael R. Bechloss, At The Highest Levels: The Inside Story of the End of The Cold War (1993).
http://www.state.gov/www/about_state/biography/talbott.htm
He also recently edited “The Age of Terror: America and the World After September 11” and wrote “The Russia Hand: A Memoir of Presidential Diplomacy”
**
Chair & John C. Hower Professor of Business and Public Policy, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania
Academic Positions Held
Wharton: 1991-present (Chairperson, Business and Public Policy Department, 1997-present; named John C. Hower Professor of Public Policy and Management, 1991). Previous appointments: Carnegie Mellon University (Dean and Professor of Economics, Industrial Administration and Public Policy, Graduate School of Industrial Administration, 1983-91). Visiting appointment: Yale University
Other Positions
Commissioner, Civil Aeronautics Board, 1977-83; Research Head, Economic Research Department, Bell Laboratories, 1975- 77; Supervisor, Economic Analysis Group, Bell Laboratories, 1973-75
Career and Recent Professional Awards; Teaching Awards
Doctor of Engineering (Honorary), Stevens Institute of Technology, 2000; Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1997; Directors' Choice Award, National Women's Economic Alliance Foundation, 1990; LLD (Honorary), DePaul University, 1988; Radcliffe College Alumnae Recognition Award, 1985
Professional Leadership 1999-2003
President Elect, President, Past-President, Eastern Economics Association, 1997-00; Advisory Committee, Center for Economic Policy Research, Stanford University, 1983-present; Princeton University Economics Advisory Council, 1989-present
Corporate and Public Sector Leadership 1999-2003
Board of Directors, CSX Corporation, 1989-present; Philip Morris Companies, Inc., 1989-present; Honeywell, Inc., 1985-99; Board of Trustees: Brookings Institution, 1988-present; College Retirement Equity Fund, 1987-present (info on the College Retirement Equity Fund); National Bureau of Economic Research, 1993-present; Vice Chairman, Bancroft NeuroHealth, 1996-present; Member, Committee for Economic Development, 1996-99; Committee for a Study of Competition in the U.S. Airline Industry, National Research Council, 1998- 99.
Research Areas
Economic deregulation; contestability theory; strategic management of economic, environmental, and international regulation; corporate governance and social responsibility
Current Projects
Current research on airline industry structure in the aftermath of deregulation; on links between corporate strategy and public policy; and links between CEO succession and executive performance.
Representative Publications
"A Regulatory Framework for the 21st Century." Eastern Economic Journal (Summer 1999).
(with G.S. Day and D.J. Reibstein)
"Integrating Policy Trends into Dynamic Advantage" in Wharton on Dynamic Competitive Advantage. Wiley (1997).
(with J.R. Pack)
The Political Economy of Privatization and Deregulation. Elgar (1995).
(with W.J. Baumol)
"Deregulation and the Theory of Contestable Markets." Yale Journal on Regulation 1.2 (1984).
http://www.wharton.upenn.edu/faculty/baileye.htm
**
President, The Markle Foundation
Zoë Baird is president of the Markle Foundation, a private philanthropy that works to realize the potential of emerging communications tools to improve people’s lives. In 1999 after joining Markle, Ms. Baird committed Markle to invest up to $100 million over the next three to five years to help ensure that the Internet and other new media serve public needs.
Under Ms. Baird, the Foundation is working to foster public participation in technology policy-making, create innovative public-private partnerships for improving national security and delivering digital opportunity to all; as well as improving healthcare and developing interactive media for children. Markle's current grantees and partners include AOL- Time Warner, Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard, Cisco Systems, Voxiva LLC, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Brookings Institution, Council on Foreign Relations, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Children's Hospital, PBS and the Discovery Channel.
Ms. Baird’s career spans business, government and academia. She has been, senior vice president and general counsel of Aetna, Inc., a senior visiting scholar at Yale Law School, counselor and staff executive at General Electric, and a partner in the law firm of O'Melveny & Myers. She was also associate counsel to President Jimmy Carter and attorney in the Office of Legal Counsel of the U.S. Department of Justice. Ms. Baird served on the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and on the International Competition Policy Advisory Committee to the Attorney General. Ms. Baird was President Clinton’s initial nominee for Attorney General of the United States.
Ms. Baird founded and chairs Lawyers for Children America, which is concerned with the impact of violence on children. She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the American Law Institute, and serves on the boards of Save the Children, the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, The Brookings Institution, and Chubb Corporation, among others.
Ms. Baird holds a law degree from the University of California at Berkeley’s Boalt School of Law, and an undergraduate degree from Berkeley with majors in communications and public policy, and political science. She is married and has two sons.
http://www.markle.org/about/_about_staffbio_baird.stm
**
Vice Chairman, Kissinger Associates, Inc.
President & CEO, Orama Partners
“[the Orama Group is] an investment bank that is the private placement arm of the IDB Group -- arguably the largest business enterprise in the private sector of the Israeli economy, comprising IDB Holdings, a stake in Israel Discount Bank, IDB Development, Discount Investment Corporation, Clal Israel (including Clal Industries and Investments, Clal Insurance, etc.) and more -- Orama can call on significant clout, both within and without the extensive IDB family.
"In addition to the many IDB companies and institutions with whom we work on a regular basis, Orama has strategic partners throughout the world who do
not merely cooperate with us they are minority owners in Orama," explains Gil Weiser, active vice chairman of Orama Ltd., the firm's Israel-based operation. Orama consists of Orama Ltd., headquartered in Tel Aviv, and subsidiary Orama Partners, incorporated in the US and based in New York.
Among the prominent names that own minority interests in Orama are Compaq, Intel, Lucent, McCaw Cellular, Softbank, Silicon Graphics, Siemens, Silicon Valley Bank and the TDF agency of the government of Singapore.” [source]
Director of Diamond Offshore Drilling
Director of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc
Director of Schweitzer-Mauduit International, Inc
Corporate Advisory Board of the Pacific Council on International Policy (the Western Partner of the Council on Foreign Relations)
Steering Committee of the Kissinger Chair in Foreign Policy and International Relations
Member of the Inter-American Dialogue
He was a managing director of Lehman Brothers.
**
General Counsel and Executive Vice President, Law and Government Affairs, AT&T
Director, US Chamber of Commerce
Director, Internet Policy Institute
Vice President, The George HW Bush Foundation
Director, American Council on Germany
Served as Deputy Chief of Staff to President Bush
Former partner, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, L.L.P.
Served as Special Assistant to the President and Special Assistant to Chief of Staff James A. Baker III
Served as Administrative Assistant to the Governor of Texas and General Counsel to the Texas Secretary of State
**
Chairman, O'Melveny & Myers
A.B. Culvahouse is the Chairman of O'Melveny & Myers, an international law firm of more than 800 lawyers with offices around the world. Mr. Culvahouse's practice emphasizes corporate and international transactions and federal regulatory and enforcement issues. Mr. Culvahouse has practiced law with O'Melveny & Myers from 1976 to 1984, and from 1989 to the present. As White House Counsel From March 1987 through January 1989, Mr. Culvahouse advised President Ronald Reagan on matters ranging from the Iran-Contra investigations, to the Supreme Court nominations of Robert Bork and Anthony Kennedy, to the legal aspects of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty; and he chaired the inter-agency lawyers Committee on War Powers and the President's Committee on Federal Judicial Nominations. From June 1973 until November 1976, A.B. Culvahouse was Chief Legislative Assistant and Counsel to United States Senator Howard H. Baker, Jr. Mr. Culvahouse has served as a member of the Administrative Conference of the United States, the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Naval Academy, and the Federal Advisory Committee on Nuclear Failsafe and Risk Reduction. After earning his B.S., with high honors, from the University of Tennessee, Mr. Culvahouse earned his Juris Doctor in 1973 from New York University School of Law, where he was a Root- Tilden Scholar and Editor-in-Chief of the Annual Survey of American Law. Mr. Culvahouse was born on July 4, 1948, and is a native of Ten Mile, Tennessee.
http://www.homelandsec.org/WGstrength/bios/culvahouse.htm
His practice emphasizes corporate transactions, particularly transactions including federal regulatory and public policy issues, international transactions and enforcement matters. Illustrative transactions include: the $2 billion sale of an NYSE company to a foreign national oil company; the sale of an airline client's Berlin air corridor service rights and assets to another airline; the purchase of one airline's U.K. assets and landing rights by another airline; and mergers and acquisitions involving Fortune 500 companies. A.B. Culvahouse also has represented: several U.S. oil companies in connection with preserving ownership of their assets in Libya following imposition of U.S. economic sanctions in 1986; corporations and individuals subject to civil and criminal enforcement proceedings; and clients involved in Congressional investigations and Congressional hearings.
http://www.omm.com/webcode/navigate.asp?nodeHandle=31&idContent=1510
He is a committee member of a working group looking at strengthening the Federal Response in light of Bush’s proposed Department of Homeland Security.
**
President and CEO, Fremont Group
Alan M. Dachs is President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director of Fremont Group and Sequoia Ventures Inc. He is the Chair of the Executive Committee of each company. Prior to his current post, Mr. Dachs held positions in the banking and construction industries. Mr. Dachs started his career with Chemical Bank and New York Trust Company where he became an account and credit officer serving the contractual lending requirements of Fortune 500 customers. Mr. Dachs then joined the Refinery and Chemical Division of the worldwide engineering and construction firm, Bechtel. He served as project finance specialist and later as Chief Financial Officer of Dual Drilling Company, a wholly owned subsidiary. Mr. Dachs became President of Fremont Group and Sequoia Ventures in 1989. Mr. Dachs is a member of the Boards of Directors of Bechtel Group, Inc., Bechtel Enterprises, Inc., and ESCO Corporation. He serves on the Executive Committee of Bechtel Enterprises, Inc. He is a Charter Trustee and Chairman of the Board of Wesleyan University and also a member of the Board of Trustees of Brookings Institution. Mr. Dachs holds a Masters Degree in Business Administration from New York University.
He is also a director of Infrastructure.com
**
Chairman and CEO, Trust Company of the West
Bush “Pioneer” & member of the Presidents Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB)
Day is the grandson of Superior Oil founder William Keck.
“Syntroleum Corporation (NASDAQ: SYNM), the leading developer and licenser of Gas-to-Liquids (GTL) technology for making synthetic fuels, today announced that it has named Robert A. Day to its Board of Directors.
Mr. Day is the Founder, Chairman and CEO of The TCW Group, Inc., a $71 billion institutional money management firm based in Los Angeles. He is also Chairman and CEO of the W.M. Keck Foundation, a $1.7 billion private foundation, a member of the Board of Directors of Freeport-McMoRan, and a member of The Business Council, The Brookings Institution, and The Center for Strategic & International Studies. Mr. Day is also a Member and former Chairman of the Board of Trustees at Claremont McKenna College. Mr. Day is Syntroleum’s second largest shareholder.” [source]
Day started his career with the investment banking firm of White, Weld and Company in New York. In 1971 he founded Trust Company of the West with $2 million under management. They currently manage in excess of $50 billion invested in 50 investment products and are the largest independent trust company in the United States. [source]
He is also a director of the
Société Générale (The TCW Group, Inc. is an indirect subsidiary of Société
Générale)
**
Chairman and CEO, The Duberstein Group
Kenneth M. Duberstein is chairman and CEO of The Duberstein Group, and independent strategic planning and consulting company.
Mr. Duberstein previously served as Chief of Staff to President Ronald Reagan in 1988-89. During President Reagan's two terms in office, he also served in the White House as Deputy Chief of Staff (1987), as well as both the Assistant and the Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs (1981-83).
Prior to joining the Administration, he was Vice President and Director of Business- Government Relations of the Committee for Economic Development. He returned to the private sector between his various White House assignments as Vice President of Timmons & Company Inc, a government relations firm.
His earlier government service included Deputy Under Secretary of Labor during the Ford Administration and Director of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs at the U.S. General Services Administration. He began his public service on Capitol Hill as an assistant to Senator Jacob K. Javits.
Among the Board of Directors on which Mr. Duberstein serves are: The Boeing Company, Conoco, Inc., Fannie Mae, the Fleming Companies, Inc., and The St. Paul Companies, Inc. He also is on the Board of Governors for the American Stock Exchange and NASD. He is a trustee of Franklin & Marshall College and Johns Hopkins University and serves as well on a wide range of commissions, task forces, and cultural, educational and volunteer boards: Vice Chairman of the Kennedy Center for Performing Arts, Harvard University/Kennedy School's Institute of Politics Senior Advisory Committee, the board of directors of the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), the Ronald Reagan Institute of Emergency medicine, the National Alliance to End Homelessness, Ford's Theater and The American Council on Capital Formation.
He was awarded the President's Citizens Medal by President Reagan in January 1989. He is Chairman of the Ethics Committee for the U.S. Olympics Committee and served as Vice Chairman of the independent Special Bid Oversight Reform Commission for the U.S. Olympics Committee.
Mr. Duberstein graduated from Franklin and Marshall College (A.B. 1965) and American University (M.A. 1966). He received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Franklin and Marshall in 1989.
http://www.homelandsec.org/WGstrength/bios/duberstein.htm
He is the co-chair of a working group looking at strengthening the Federal Response in light of Bush’s proposed Department of Homeland Security. He is also a member of the “Domestic Strategy Group” within the Aspen Institute.
**
Chairman, President and CEO, Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Lawrence K. Fish is Chairman, President and CEO of Citizens Financial Group, Inc., a multi-state bank holding company headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island. Under his leadership since 1992, Citizens has grown tenfold to become one of the 20 largest commercial bank holding companies in the United States, with retail and commercial banking offices throughout New England and in the Mid-Atlantic.
Widely recognized as an innovative leader in the American banking industry, Fish holds many leadership positions in business and in the community. He is a Director of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group and director of Textron Inc., and a member of the Board of Trustees of The Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C. In January 2002, he was named a Director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. From 1999 to 2001, he was a member of the Federal Advisory Council, a panel of 12 bankers who serve as a key source of information for the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and the banking community. He was the Council's Vice President in 2001.
Fish is an overseer of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. He is also on the board of directors of Boston’s Dimock Community Health Center. He is particularly interested in the issues of immigration and urban poverty, and serves as a volunteer at numerous inner-city organizations in Boston and Providence. He was founding Chairman of the Rhode Island Commission for National and Community Service, which has been widely recognized as one of the most creative and successful Americorps programs in the country.
Fish has been a trustee of Drake University for more than 16 years. He has chaired numerous capital campaigns. They include major initiatives to assist Rosie’s Place, the oldest women's shelter in the United States, and the first Vietnamese Community Center in the U.S., which will serve Boston's 20,000 Vietnamese refugee and immigrant families.
A 1966 honors graduate of Drake, Fish earned an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in 1968. He was the recipient of Harvard’s Frank Knox Fellowship, which included graduate study at the London School of Economics and study in India. Fish is the recipient of honorary doctorate degrees from Providence College, Bryant College, Roger Williams University, Johnson & Wales University and the University of Massachusetts.
Fish and his wife, Atsuko, who is involved in various community organizations in Boston, and their three children reside in Chestnut Hill, Mass.
http://www.citizensbank.com/about_citizens/lkf_profile.shtml
**
Managing Partner, Kissinger McLarty Associates
Richard Fisher is the managing partner of Kissinger McLarty Associates, an international consulting firm. He previously was managing partner of Fisher Family Fund, LP, a diversified fund invested in a wide range of securities, real estate, and oil and gas properties. He served during the Clinton administration as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador and with primary responsibility for Asia, Latin America and Canada. During this period, Ambassador Fisher was the chief operating officer of the U.S. government for NAFTA. As such, he negotiated numerous high-profile issues throughout the hemisphere. Throughout his tenure as Deputy Trade Representative, Ambassador Fisher also served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC).
Earlier he was managing partner of Value Partners Ltd. and Fisher Capital Management; senior manager of Brown Brothers Harriman and Co.; and executive assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury in the Carter Administration. Ambassador Fisher is currently an adjunct professor at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin, and was Texas' Democratic nominee for the U.S. Senate in 1994. A member of the Council on Foreign Relations, he is a trustee of the Brookings Institution and a director of Stolt-Nielsen, S.A. He is a former chairman of the Institute of the Americas in San Diego and founding chairman of the Dallas Committee on Foreign Relations.
He is a director of the Pacific Council on International Policy
He is a director of the Atlantic Council of the United States..
**
Chairman of the Board & CEO, Chiquita Brands International, Inc.
Cyrus F. Freidheim, Jr. is a Director on the CSTech Board of Directors.
Mr. Freidheim is the current Chairman & CEO of Chiquita Brands International, Inc. (since March 2002)
Previously he served as the vice chairman at a leading consulting firm, Booz Allen & Hamilton, Inc., Mr. Freidheim has over 30 years of consulting experience and has managed more than 200 client engagements in strategic planning, organization, marketing, finance and control, and information systems. He has worked for several industrial, financial government, and not-for-profit organizations, and has consulted corporations in over 15 countries throughout the world. Before being appointed Vice Chairman of Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc., Mr. Freidheim was president of Booz-Allen & Hamilton International. At various times over the past several years, he has had executive responsibility for every part of Booz-Allen's management consulting business.
He was awarded an honorary doctorate at the commencement ceremonies of Thunderbird, The American Graduate School of International Management in May of 1999.
Mr. Freidheim is also the author of "The Trillion Dollar Enterprise: How the Alliance Revolution will Transform Global Business," a visionary book about a seismic shift in global business.
He currently sits on the board of directors of the Security Capital Group, Inc., Household International, Inc. and MicroAge. He also is an active Trustee of The Brookings Institution.
--
Since 1966 Mr. Freidheim has served a number of roles within the international consultancy giant. These include Vice President (Chicago), Managing Director-Latin America, Executive Vice President- International, President- International, Managing Director, Central Region, and Managing Director of the U.S. Previously, Mr. Freidheim held positions in the Ford Motor Company, Price Waterhouse, Union Carbide, and the U.S. Navy. He has been a board director of LaSalle Street Fund, Incorporated; Eljer Industries, Incorporated and Prime Advantage. He is a current member of numerous institutional boards including the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, Thunderbird the American Graduate School of Management, and Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center. Mr. Freidheim enjoys the arts and is a Life Trustee and former Vice Chairman of the Board of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
He is also a `fund advisor’ to InvestLinc’s / Arris Ventures - “Arris Ventures Fund I”
**
Senior Partner, Cahill Gordon & Reindel
**
Ann M. Fudge was born in Washington, D.C. on April 23, 1951. She received a B.A. degree from Simmons College in 1973 and an M.B.A. degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Business in 1977.
Ms. Fudge began her career with General Mills, Inc., advancing to the position of marketing director. She joined General Foods Corporation (which later merged into Kraft Foods, Inc.) in 1986 as associate director of Strategic Planning. A year later, she moved to the Beverage division as marketing director. She was appointed vice president in 1989, and was named an executive vice president of General Foods USA in 1991. Ms. Fudge was named executive vice president of Kraft Foods, Inc. and as president of the Coffee & Cereals Division in September 1997. In February 2001, Ms. Fudge resigned due to an impending appointment in another industry.
Among her affiliations, Ms. Fudge is a trustee of the American Graduate School of International Management; a director of Honeywell, General Electric Company, Liz Claiborne, Inc. and director of Catalyst; a member of The Committee of 200 and the New York Women's Forum; and president of the Executive Leadership Council. She has received a leadership award from the Minneapolis YWCA and the New York City YWCA; a Candace Award from the National Coalition of 100 Black Women; and an Achievement Award from the Corporate Women's Network. Ms. Fudge has been named one of the top 50 women executives by Executive Female magazine and 1995 Advertising Woman of The Year by the Advertising Women of New York.
She is a director of The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
She is also a director at Marriott Int'l Inc.
**
Chairman and CEO, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Jeffrey W. Greenberg is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC) and Chairman of MMC Capital. He has been a director of MMC since 1996. He began his career in 1976 with the insurance brokerage unit of Marsh & McLennan, Incorporated (now known as Marsh Inc.). In 1978 he joined American International Group, where he held numerous positions during his 17 years with the firm, including Executive Vice President responsible for AIG's domestic brokerage group from 1991 to 1995. He rejoined MMC in 1995 as a Partner of MMC Capital. He was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1996 and is currently Chairman. Mr. Greenberg was President of MMC from January 1999 to May 2000. He became Chief Executive Officer in November 1999 and was elected Chairman in May 2000.
Mr. Greenberg is a member of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the Council on Foreign Relations, The Brookings Institution and The Trilateral Commission. He is a trustee of Brown University, The Spence School and The New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He holds an A.B., with honors, from Brown University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law School.
Mr. Greenberg holds an A.B. with honors from Brown University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law School.
New York-based Marsh & McLennan is the world's leading insurance broker, but it has two other gems in its portfolio: Putnam Investments Inc. and Mercer Consulting Group Inc. Putnam has taken some knocks as the markets have tumbled, but it is still a key source of profits. The firm supplied 32% of Marsh & McLennan's revenues in 2000 and nearly 45% of its operating income. Greenberg is credited with reinvigorating the once- complacent Marsh. He has introduced the demanding, no-excuses culture he was trained in at American International Group under his father, the notoriously tough Maurice R. Greenberg.
http://www.businessweek.com/bw50/2001/rank31-33.htm
**
Brian Lee Greenspun is President and Editor of The Las Vegas Sun newspaper, and President of the Greenspun Corporation and has overall responsibility for American Nevada Corporation, the developer of Nevada's most successful planned community; Prime Cable, now COX Communications of Las Vegas; the Greenspun Media Group, which, together with The Las Vegas Sun, publishes Showbiz magazine, Las Vegas' premier entertainment magazine, Las Vegas Weekly, Las Vegas Life, Vegas Golfer, and Vegas.com. Throughout his adult life, Greenspun has been active in the Boy Scouts of America, Big Brothers and Big Sisters, the National Conference of Christians and Jews, and State of Israel Bonds. He has been a sponsor of The Las Vegas Sun Youth Forum, and The Las Vegas Sun Summer Camp Fund. Greenspun also serves on the President's Community Advisory Board of the University of Nevada Las Vegas. In 1993, Greenspun was appointed by President Clinton to the White House Conference on Small Business Commission.
Which is a member of the Greenspun Media Group, run by Daniel A Greenspun, which publishes:
Las Vegas Sun, Las Vegas Weekly, Showbiz, Las Vegas Life, InBusiness, VegasGolfer, Ralston Report/Flash, Vegas.com
Brian is the son of Hank Greenspun, remembered through the Greenspun College of Urban Affairs & the Hank Greenspun School of Communication.
**
Director, The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Experience
Member, U.S. Congress, Ninth District, Indiana
January 1965 - January 1999
Chairman, Ranking Member, and Member, Committee on International Relations; Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Member, Joint Economic Committee; Chairman and Member, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Chairman, Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress; Chairman, October Surprise Task Force; Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran; Member, House Standards of Official Conduct Committee
Expertise
International Relations and Congress
Education
DePauw University, B.A., 1948 - 1952; Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany, 1952 - 1953; Indiana University School of Law, J.D., 1953 - 1956
Biography
Lee H. Hamilton became Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in January, 1999. The Woodrow Wilson Center, located in the heart of Washington D.C., is a pre-eminent intellectual haven where scholars, policymakers, and business leaders investigate and discuss, in a comprehensive and non- partisan manner, public policy issues, their deep historical backgrounds, and their effect on our world. The Center serves as the living memorial to former President Woodrow Wilson, a scholar and a professor who was committed to bringing the world of policy and the world of ideas together so that each will learn from the other.
Prior to becoming the Director of the Woodrow Wilson Center, Lee Hamilton served for thirty-four years as a United States Congressman from Indiana. Born in Daytona Beach, Florida, in 1931, Mr. Hamilton and his family soon relocated to Tennessee and then Indiana. After graduating from Central High School in Evansville, Indiana, he attended DePauw University where he studied history. He was involved in student government and served on the school’s Council on Religious Life and the Methodist Student Movement. He graduated with honors in 1952 and was awarded the Walker Cup, an award given to the most outstanding member of the senior class. Mr. Hamilton was the star of his basketball teams in high school and college, and his talent earned him a spot in the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame. After college, Lee Hamilton attended Goethe University in Germany for a year, followed by law school at Indiana University, graduating in 1956. He then practiced law, first in Chicago and then in Columbus, Indiana. He was first elected to Congress from Indiana’s 9th District in 1964.
During his thirty-four year tenure in Congress, Mr. Hamilton became very influential in the area of foreign affairs. He served as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, now the Committee on International Relations, for his entire time in Congress. He became a subcommittee chairman in 1971, and chaired a Subcommittee on Europe and the Middle East from the early 1970s until 1993. Lee Hamilton served for ten years as the Ranking Democrat on the Committee, and was Chairman of the Committee during the 103rd Congress. During his years in Congress, he made significant contributions to American foreign policy and took a particular interest in promoting democracy and market reform in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, as well as promoting peace and stability in the Middle East. He also encouraged the expansion of US markets overseas and the overhaul of US foreign aid and export policies. His service as a ranking member and a Chairman enabled him to become an astute observer of many significant historical events, such as the Arab/Israeli peace negotiations, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the 1991 Gulf War.
In addition to foreign affairs, Lee Hamilton made significant contributions to economic policy. As Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, he worked to create a sound and healthy economy and to promote economic development by focusing on such issues as global market competition, Federal Reserve policy, and long-term economic challenges facing the nation. Other committees Mr. Hamilton has chaired include the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress, and the Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran. He was also active in strengthening Congressional ethics standards, serving on the House Standards of Official Conduct Committee and being a primary draftsman of several House ethics reforms.
In his own state of Indiana, Lee Hamilton has worked hard to improve the education, job training, and infrastructure programs of its citizens. He is now Director of a Center on Congress project at Indiana University. The Indiana Center aims to educate citizens on the way the US Congress operates, its importance, and its role in our system of government. The Center is strictly non-partisan and includes a special outreach program to the people of Indiana.
Mr. Hamilton’s distinguished service in government has been honored through numerous awards in public service and human rights. These include the Knight Commander’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1999, the Paul H. Nitze Award for Distinguished Authority on National Security Affairs in 1999, the American Political Science Association Hubert H. Humphrey Award in 1998, the American Bar Association CEELI Award in 1998, the Center for Civic Education Civitas Award in 1998, the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service in 1998, the Center for National Policy Edmund S. Muskie Distinguished Public Service Award in 1997, the American Political Science Association Outstanding Legislator Award in 1997, the Indiana University Presidents Medal for Excellence in 1996, and the Indiana University Institute for Advanced Study Distinguished Citizen Fellow in 1994.
Some other awards of distinction include the Central Intelligence Agency Medallion in 1988, the Defense Intelligence Agency Medallion in 1987, the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1985, and the Knight of the French Legion of Honor in 1984.
Lee Hamilton has received several honorary degrees, including degrees from Bellarmine University, DePauw University, Hanover College, Detroit College of Law, Ball State University, University of Southern Indiana, Wabash College, Union College, Marian College, American University, Indiana University, Suffolk University, Indiana State University, Anderson University, Franklin College, and Shenandoah University.
Lee Hamilton and his wife, the former Nancy Ann Nelson, have three children (Tracy Lynn Souza, Deborah Hamilton Kremer, and Douglas Nelson Hamilton), and four grandchildren (Christina, Maria, McLouis, and Patricia Souza).
http://wwics.si.edu/mediaguide/hamilton.htm
He is also a member of the Homeland Security Advisory Council and served on the US Commission on National Security/21st Century
**
Chairman and CEO, Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
William A. Haseltine, Ph.D. is Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Human Genome Sciences, Inc., (HGS), a company he founded in 1992. Human Genome Sciences, Inc. is a company with the mission to develop products to prevent, treat and cure disease based on its leadership in the discovery and understanding of human genes. William A. Haseltine holds a doctorate from Harvard University in Biophysics. Dr. Haseltine was a Professor at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health from 1976 to 1993. Dr. Haseltine became Chairman and CEO of HGS in 1993. He has a distinguished record of achievement in cancer and AIDS research. He has received numerous awards for his scientific work. He is the former Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of AIDS and is the founder and Editor of the on-line journal E-Biomed: A Journal of Regenerative Medicine. Dr. Haseltine has over 250 publications in the scientific literature. He has been awarded more than 50 patents for his discoveries. Dr. Haseltine also has many years of experience with biotechnology companies. Since 1981 he has founded seven companies, each in a different area of medicine. As a scientific advisor to HealthCare Ventures, he helped to establish an additional 20 biotechnology companies. Dr. Haseltine has received many honors for his achievements in science, medicine and business.
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Health Museum, member of The Brookings Institution Board of Trustees and member of The Trilateral Commission. Member of the faculty of Harvard Medical School and the Dana Farber Cancer Institute from 1976 to May 1993. Member of the faculty of the Harvard School of Public Health from 1977 to May 1993 and Chief of Human Retrovirology at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute from 1988 to May 1993. [source]
Cited by “The Guardian” as being one of the four men who were the driving force behind the human genome project:
“Multimillionaire socialite and brilliant scientist Dr William A Haseltine is chief executive of the private company, Human Genome Sciences, based in Rockville, Maryland, US. The pharmaceutical company uses genome data to develop new drug treatments and demands royalties from anyone who works on the gene, a move which has attracted criticism from fellow scientists. Among the genes patented by this company is that for CCR5, the receptor used by the Aids virus to enter human cells. In 1982 Haseltine came up with the then controversial hypothesis that Aids was caused by a retrovirus. Greeted with scepticism at the time, he was later proved to be correct. In 1992 he went into partnership with Craig Venter to sequence the human genome. Personality clashes led them to separate in 1997.”
http://www.guardian.co.uk/genes/article/0,2763,336602,00.htm
**
Chairman, Heinz Family Philanthropies
Following the death of her husband, US Senator John Heinz, in 1991, Teresa Heinz was urged by many political leaders to seek election to his Senate seat. Instead, she chose to assume direction of the family’s extensive philanthropic operations, strategically reorganizing the foundations’ focus. Today, the foundations she oversees are widely known for developing innovative approaches to protect the environment, improve education, enhance the lives of young children, broaden economic opportunity and promote the arts. In addition, Heinz has created the prestigious Heinz Awards, an annual program recognizing the outstanding vision and achievement in the arts, public policy, technology and the economy, the environment, and the human condition.
In the spirit of her late husband, Heinz has championed the education of women regarding the importance of pensions, savings and retirement security. In addition, she has long been recognized as one of the nation’s premier environmental leaders. In 1995 she announced one of the largest grants ever made to the environment, a $20 million gift to create the H. John Heinz III Center for Science, Economics, and the Environment, a unique attempt to bring together representatives of business, government, the scientific community and environmental groups to collaborate on the development of mutually acceptable yet scientifically sound environmental policies.
Guided by a belief in thoughtful problem-solving and the power of informed debate, Heinz serves on the board of the Carnegie Corporation of New York and is a trustee of the Brookings Institution. She also sits on the Visiting Committee for the Kennedy School and the school-wide environmental committee for Harvard University, serves on the board of the American Institute for Public Service (Jefferson Awards), and was recently elected to be a Fellow for the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Teresa Heinz, formerly Teresa Simões-Ferreira, is now married to U.S. Senator John Kerry. She has three sons, John, André and Christopher Heinz. Born and raised in Mozambique, she received a Bachelor of Arts degree in romance languages and literature (French, Portuguese and Italian) from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa. In 1963, she graduated from the Interpreters School of the University of Geneva. Fluent in 5 languages, she later served as a full-time consultant to the United Nations Trusteeship in New York City. She has been awarded honorary doctorate degrees from Beloit College (Wisconsin), Bank Street College of Education (New York), Clark University (Massachusetts), Carnegie Mellon University (Pennsylvania), Drexel University (Pennsylvania), the University of Massachusetts (Boston), the Medical College of Pennsylvania, Pine Manor College (Massachusetts), and Carlow College (Pittsburgh). [source]
Trustees of the Howard Heinz Endowment
(Assets In 2000: $1,028,810,621.00, Grants Awarded In 2000: $45,810,679.00 )
**
SAMUEL HELLMAN, M.D., is the A.N. Pritzker Distinguished Service Professor, Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, University of Chicago, Center for Advanced Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. Dr. Hellman previously served as Dean and A.N. Pritzker Professor of the Division of Biological Sciences and the Pritzker School of Medicine and vice president for the Medical Center; physician-in-chief of the Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases; the Benno C. Schmidt Chair in Clinical Oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center; and professor of radiation oncology at Cornell University Medical College. At Harvard Medical School, Dr. Hellman served as chairman of the Department of Radiation Therapy; the Alvin T. and Viola D. Fuller American Cancer Society Professor; and director of the Joint Center for Radiation Therapy. Dr. Hellman has been active in both clinical and laboratory investigation including studies of breast cancer, prostate cancer, lymphoma, and the cell kinetics of the hematopoietic system. He is the author or co-author of some 258 scientific articles; co-editor of the standard textbook on cancer, Cancer: Principles and Practice of Oncology, and co-editor of "The Cancer Journal" from Scientific American.
Dr. Hellman served as chairman of the board of Allegheny College (1987-1993), where he received his B.S. degree magna cum laude in 1955; is a fellow of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science; and is a member of the board of directors of Varian Associates, Inc., and of the board of trustees of The Brookings Institution. He has served as president of both the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology and the American Society of Clinical Oncology. He received the 1980 Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation Award for Clinical Research of the American Association of Cancer Research; the Gold Medals of both the American Society of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology and the del Regato Foundation; the American Society of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology Centennial Hartman Orator Medal; and the Claudius Regaud Medal of the European Society for Therapeautic Radiology and Oncology. [source]
He is also an advisor at GenVac
**
Lecturer in Entrepreneurship, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University
Joel Z. Hyatt is founder of Hyatt Legal Services, providing accessible legal services to middle- and lower-income families. Since its beginnings in 1977, the firm has served the needs of more than 2 1/4 million clients. Joel was also the founder, president, and chief executive officer of Hyatt Legal Plans, Inc., America's largest provider of group legal services. (Hyatt Legal Plans was acquired by Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in 1997.)
In 1994, Joel was Ohio's Democratic Senate nominee. A graduate of Dartmouth College (A.B., 1972), Joel received his J.D. from Yale Law School in 1976. He has been active politically, serving as a founding member of the U.S. Senate Democratic Leadership Circle from 1981 to 1986 and as assistant treasurer of the Democratic National Committee from 1981 to 1983. He is currently a member of the board of trustees of Morehouse College and is on the advisory board of the Rockefeller Center for the Social Sciences at Dartmouth College. He also teaches entrepreneurship at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
Joel has been recognized by Business Week as one of the top 50 business leaders in the United States. He also was identified by The American Lawyer as one of the 10 most influential attorneys during the 1980s for his pioneering efforts in making the legal system work on behalf of middle-income families.
AB, Dartmouth College, 1972
JD, Yale Law School, 1976.
Business Week: The New Corporate Elite, Jan. 21, 1985
along with individuals such as Bill Gates, Steven Jobs, and David Packard, Hyatt was chosen as one of the top 50 business leaders in the U.S. Assoc., Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, 1977;
Cofounder and Sr. Partner, Hyatt Legal Services, 1977-97;
Founder, Chairman, and CEO, Hyatt Legal Plans, Inc., 1990- 97;
Visiting Scholar, Hoover Institution, 1997-98.
At Stanford since 1997.
Academic Organizations/ Boards of Directors
Board of Trustees: Morehouse College, 1989 -
Board of Trustees: The Brookings Institution, 2001 -
Member: Council on Foreign Relations, 2001 -
Co-Chair Advisory Board: RAND Middle East Public Policy Center, 1999 –
Presidents Council, RAND, 2002-
Board of Visitors: Rockefeller Center for Social Sciences at Dartmouth College, 1996 -
Member: Young Presidents Organization, 1985-93
Commissioner: California Public Utilities Commission, 1999
Founding member, U.S. Senate Democratic Leadership Circle, 1981-1986
Assistant Treasurer, Democratic National Committee, 1981-1983
**
President, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
The Honorable Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson became the 18th president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute on July 1, 1999. Dr. Jackson is a theoretical physicist. Since coming to Rensselaer, Dr. Jackson has led the development of the Rensselaer Plan (the Institute’s strategic blueprint), has begun implementation of much of the Plan, while restructuring processes and procedures; and secured a $360 million unrestricted gift commitment to the university.
Dr. Jackson’s career prior to becoming Rensselaer's president has encompassed senior positions in government, as Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission; in industry and research, as a theoretical physicist at the former AT&T Bell Laboratories; and in academe, as a professor of theoretical physics at Rutgers University.
Dr. Jackson holds a Ph.D. in theoretical physics from M.I.T. (1973) and a B.S. in physics from M.I.T. (1968).
In 1995 President William Clinton appointed Dr. Jackson to serve as Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). Dr. Jackson was Chairman of the NRC from 1995-1999. As Chairman, she was the principal executive officer of and the official spokesman for the NRC. She had ultimate authority for all NRC functions pertaining to an emergency involving an NRC licensee. The NRC is charged with the protection of the public health and safety, the environment, and the common defense and security by licensing, regulating, and safeguarding the use of reactor byproduct material in the U.S. This includes power reactors; research, test, and training reactors; fuel cycle facilities; reactor byproduct use in medicine, industry and research; the transportation, storage, and disposal of high-level and low-level radioactive waste; and the licensing of nuclear exports for peaceful uses.
While at the NRC, Dr. Jackson initiated a strategic assessment and rebaselining of the agency, leading to a new planning, budgeting, and performance management system that put the NRC on a more businesslike footing in its activities. She also introduced risk-informed, performance-based regulation to the NRC (utilizing probabilistic risk assessment on a consistent basis), which is now being infused throughout its regulatory programs. Elements of the approach also have been incorporated into the regulatory programs of other nations. She led the development of a new reactor oversight program, and created, with the Commission, a license renewal process resulting in the first renewal (in March 2000) of the license of an operating reactor in the United States.
While Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Dr. Jackson spearheaded the formation of the International Nuclear Regulators Association (INRA) in May 1997, and was elected as the group's first chairman, a position she held from 1997 to 1999. The association is made up of the most senior nuclear regulatory officials from Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States. As the first INRA chairman, Dr. Jackson guided its development as a high-level forum to examine issues, and to offer assistance to other nations, on matters of nuclear safety.
While at the NRC, Dr. Jackson represented the United States (1995, 1996, 1997, 1998) as a delegate to the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria.
From 1991 to 1995, Dr. Jackson was professor of physics at Rutgers University, where she taught undergraduate and graduate students, conducted research on the electronic and optical properties of two- dimensional systems, and supervised Ph.D. candidates. She concurrently served as a consultant in semiconductor theory to AT&T Bell Laboratories.
For 15 years, from 1976 to 1991, Dr. Jackson conducted research in theoretical physics, solid state and quantum physics, and optical physics at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey. Her primary research focus was: the optical and electronic properties of layered materials including transition metal dichalcogenides, electrons on the surface of liquid helium films, and strained-layer semiconductors.
Dr. Jackson is a member of the National Academy of Engineering (2001). She also is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1991), and the American Physical Society (1986). She is a member of a number of other professional organizations. Dr. Jackson holds 18 honorary doctoral degrees.
In January 2001, Dr. Jackson received the “Richtmyer Memorial Lecture Award” from the American Association of Physics Teachers. In 1993 she was awarded the New Jersey Governor's Award in Science (the “Thomas Alva Edison Award”).
Dr. Jackson serves as a director of a number of major corporations, including FedEx Corporation, AT&T Corporation, Marathon Oil Corporation, Medtronic, Inc., and KeyCorp and a director of the Public Service Enterprise Group.
She serves as a Trustee of the Brookings Institution. She also serves on the Executive Committee of the Council on Competitiveness, and on the Council of the Government- University-Industry Research Roundtable.
Dr. Jackson is a member of the U.S. Comptroller-General’s Advisory Committee for the Government Accounting Office (GAO). She also serves on the Advisory Council for the Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA).
Dr. Jackson is a Life Member of the M.I.T. Corporation (the M.I.T. Board of Trustees). She also is a Trustee of the Liberty Science Center (N.J.), the Pingry School (Martinsville, N.J.), and the Emma Willard School (Troy, N.Y.).
Prior to her government service, Dr. Jackson served on the Advisory Council of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), and served on several corporate boards of directors. Dr. Jackson also has been a member of a number of high-level commissions in the State of New Jersey, including the New Jersey Commission on Science and Technology. Dr. Jackson has served on a U.S. Department of Energy Task Force on the future of its multipurpose National Laboratories, and on a number of committees of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences.
Dr. Jackson is the first African-American woman to receive a doctorate from M.I.T. -- in any subject. She is one of the first two African-American women to receive a doctorate in physics in the U.S. She is the first African-American to become a Commissioner of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. She is both the first woman and the first African-American to serve as the chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and now the first African-American woman to lead a national research university. She is also the first African-American woman elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
Dr. Jackson was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1998 for her significant and profound contributions as a distinguished scientist and advocate for education, science, and public policy. Dr. Jackson was inducted into the Women in Technology International Foundation Hall of Fame (WITI) in June 2000. WITI recognizes women technologists and scientists whose achievements are exceptional.
Dr. Jackson was the recipient in February 2001 of the “Immortal Award” for the 15th Annual Black History Makers Award sponsored by Associated Black Charities. Also, in February 2001, Dr. Jackson became the first woman to win the Black Engineer of the Year Award by US Black Engineer & Information Technology magazine.
In March 2000, Dr. Jackson was awarded the Golden Torch Award for Lifetime Achievement in Academia from the National Society of Black Engineers.
The eLeadership Award was presented in May 2000 to Dr. Jackson from the Central New York Technical Development Organization and the CASE Center at Syracuse University, recognizing leaders in technological innovation, application, or education who envision a future in which the promise of technology reaches all segments of society. In June 2000, Dr. Jackson received the "100 Women of Excellence" award from the Albany-Colonie (NY) Regional Chamber of Commerce & Women’s Business Council recognizing women who pioneered change in the community over the past century.
Dr. Jackson is married to Dr. Morris A. Washington, also a physicist. They have one son, Alan, an undergraduate at Dartmouth College.
http://www.rpi.edu/web/President/profile.htm
**
Founder, Chairman, and CEO, BET Holdings, Inc. and BET.com
Robert L. Johnson is the founder, chairman and chief executive officer of Black Entertainment Television (BET), a subsidiary of Viacom and the leading African American-owned and operated media and entertainment company in the United States. With the mission of establishing BET as the most-valued consumer brand within the Black marketplace, BET has enjoyed extraordinary financial and strategic success since its inception in 1980.
From 1976 to 1979, Johnson served as vice president of Government Relations for the National Cable & Telecommunications Association (NCTA), a trade association representing more than 1,500 cable television companies. Prior to joining the NCTA, Johnson was press secretary for the Honorable Walter E. Fauntroy, Congressional Delegate from the District of Columbia. Johnson previously held positions at the Washington Urban League and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
Johnson serves on the following boards: US Airways; Hilton Hotels Corporation; General Mills; United Negro College Fund; National Cable Television Association; and the American Film Institute. Johnson is also a member of the Board of Governors for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland; and the Brookings Institute.
Major awards received by Johnson include: 1997 Broadcasting & Cable Magazine's Hall of Fame Award; CTAM's Grand Tam Award; Cablevision Magazine's 20/20 Vision Award which lists him as one of the twenty most influential people in the cable industry; an NAACP Image Award; National Women's Political Caucus' Good Guys Award; a Distinguished Alumni Award from Princeton University; and the President's Award from the National Cable & Telecommunications Association.
Johnson is a graduate of the University of Illinois and holds a master's in International Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. Johnson resides in Washington, D.C., with his wife, Sheila, and their two children.
**
Ms. Jordan has been:
Director of the Department of Social Services for the University of Chicago Medical Center -- 1986 to 1987
Field Work Associate Professor at the School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago -- 1970 to 1987
Director of Social Services of Chicago Lying-in Hospital -- 1970 to 1985
Director of Citigroup since 1989
Also: Johnson & Johnson Corporation (director), Automatic Data Processing, Inc (director), The National Symphony Orchestra (Director), The Phillips Collection (Director), Child Welfare League (Director), Catalyst (Director), The Community Foundation for the National Capital Region (trustee), WETA (trustee), University of Chicago (trustee), The Brookings Institute (trustee)
She is married to Vernon E Jordan.
**
Retired Chairman and CEO, CBS/Westinghouse
Michael Jordan was appointed a director of WPP in 2000 and had been a director of Young & Rubicam Inc. since December 1999. He is a general partner of the venture capital firm of Global Asset Capital, LLC, and a partner of Beta Capital Group, LLC of Dallas, Texas. He is chairman of the National Foreign Trade Council (US), a member and former chairman of the US- Japan Business Council, chairman of The College Fund/UNCF, a trustee of the Brookings Institution and chairman of the Policy Board of the Americans for the Arts. He is an advisor to I-Hatch Ventures. He serves on the boards of Aetna Inc (director), Dell Computer Corporation (director since 1992), i2 Technologies, Inc., Clariti Telecommunications International (director since 1999) and ScreamingMedia Inc. (director since 2001).
Jordan retired as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CBS Corporation (formerly Westinghouse Electric Corporation) on December 31, 1998 after having led one of the most comprehensive transformations of a major U.S. corporation. Before joining Westinghouse, Mr. Jordan was a partner with Clayton, Dubilier and Rice, a private investment firm based in New York City. Prior to that he spent 18 years with PepsiCo in a variety of positions, including President and Chief Financial Officer. From 1964 to 1974, Jordan was a consultant and principal with McKinsey & Company. Before entering the private sector, he served a four- year tour of duty with the U.S. Navy. A graduate of Yale University in 1957, Jordan received his MS in chemical engineering from Princeton University in 1959.
**
Retired Executive Vice President and CFO, Atlantic Richfield Company (ARCO)
Marie Knowles, age 56, retired from Atlantic Ritchfield Company ("ARCO") in 2000 and was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1996 until 2000 and a director from 1996 until 1998. From 1993 until 1996 she was Senior Vice President of ARCO and President ARCO Transportation Company. She joined ARCO in 1972. Knowles is a director of URS Corporation, America West Holdings Corporation and America West Airlines, Inc., McKesson Corporation (directors), and Phelps Dodge Corporation (directors). She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Fidelity Funds.
**
Chairman, Morino Institute; Special Partner, General Atlantic Partners, LLC
Mario Morino, a former software entrepreneur, is chairman of the Morino Institute, chairman of Venture Philanthropy Partners, and a special partner at the private equity investment firm General Atlantic Partners.
Under Mario’s leadership, the Morino Institute works to enhance the lives of children of low-income families by helping to foster innovation in the nonprofit and philanthropic organizations that serve their needs. Founded in 1994, the Morino Institute operates as a catalyst organization, launching entrepreneurial nonprofit organizations to put ideas into action.
Entrepreneurial organizations created and incubated by the Morino Institute include: Venture Philanthropy Partners, which provides sustained financial and management assistance to boost the strength and impact of youth-focused organizations; the Netpreneur program, a learning community dedicated to supporting entrepreneurship in the National Capital region; the YouthLearn Initiative, which provides tools and resources to strengthen technology-enriched learning programs and is now run by the Massachusetts-based Education Development Center, Inc.; the Youth Development Collaborative Pilot, which helped create networked learning centers in low-income neighborhoods of the District of Columbia; and the Potomac KnowledgeWay, an organization that worked in the mid-1990’s to build the National Capital region’s potential as a technology power in the global economy.
Prior to establishing the Morino Institute, Mario enjoyed a 30-year career in the information technology industry during its developing years. In 1973, he co- founded Morino Associates, a software firm that merged with another firm in 1989 to become LEGENT Corporation. LEGENT was acquired in 1995 in what was then the largest transaction in the computer software and services industry.
Mario serves as a trustee of Case Western Reserve University, The Brookings Institution, and The Community Foundation for the National Capital Region; and as a commissioner of the National Commission on Entrepreneurship.
Mario’s honors and awards include: induction into the Washington Business Hall of Fame (2001), National Ernst and Young Supporter of Entrepreneurship (2000), Washingtonian magazine’s Washingtonian of the Year (1999), American Academy of Achievement’s Golden Plate Award (1999), Greater Washington Area Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year (1998), and KPMG High Tech Entrepreneur of the Year (1993).
Mario is a graduate of Case Western Reserve University, a native of Cleveland, OH, and is married with three children.
http://www.morino.org/about_mario.htm
**
Chairman and CEO, Perseus, L.L.C.
Frank H. Pearl is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Perseus, L.L.C., a merchant bank and private equity fund management Firm with offices in Washington, D.C. and New York City. He is also the founder and chairman of Perseus Books, a publisher of quality trade books. Mr. Pearl has been involved for over 20 years in leveraged acquisitions of operating companies as well as the acquisition and financing of biotechnology investments, publishing ventures, energy technology investments and information technology companies.
Mr. Pearl practiced law in the District of Columbia and New York from 1969 until 1984. In 1984 Mr. Pearl joined Wesray Capital Corporation as a principal and managing director and in that capacity was involved in negotiating, structuring and supervising numerous successful corporate acquisitions and divestitures. During this period, Mr. Pearl was a principal with substantial responsibility for over a dozen operating companies including Wilson Sporting Goods, Avis Rent-a-Car, and Western Auto Supply.
Mr. Pearl serves as chairman of the Jennie Zoline Foundation, a private foundation which he established in 1987 to be operated for scientific, literary, educational and other purposes. The Foundation supports a wide variety of charitable activities ranging from the advanced medical and scientific research programs at several renowned medical research centers, to a program that feeds over 1100 homeless people each day in Washington, D.C. The Foundation also provides college scholarships each year to graduates of the Ellington School for the Arts in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Pearl is a member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Board of Trustees of the Rockefeller University and the Board of Directors of the National Book Foundation. Mr. Pearl is a member of the Visiting Committee of the Freer Gallery of Art, and served for five years as a member of the Trustees Council of the National Gallery of Art. He is the Chairman of the Kennedy Center Finance Committee and is a member of its Executive Committee and is the Chairman of the Education Committee of the Rockefeller Board and a member of its Executive Committee.
http://207.19.194.179/bios_print_version.htm
**
Managing Principal, Quadrangle Group LLC
Prior to founding Quadrangle, Mr. Rattner was Deputy Chairman and Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Lazard. Mr. Rattner founded Lazard's Media and Communications Group and has been involved in many of the largest and most important transactions in these industries. Mr. Rattner, who joined Lazard in 1989 as a General Partner, was previously a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley, where he also founded the Communications Group.
Rattner worked for the New York Times for nine years, as assistant to columnist James Reston, and later as a correspondent in New York, Washington, and London, where he focused on economic and energy issues. In 1982, Rattner joined the investment banking corporation of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Incorporated. Rattner later became a managing director at Morgan Stanley, where he founded the Communications Group.
In 1989, Rattner joined Lazard Frères, where he works with clients in mergers, acquisitions, and corporate finance. He founded Lazard's Communications Group, which has completed more media transactions than any other investment banking firm.
Rattner graduated in 1974 from Brown University with honors in economics and was awarded the Harvey Baker Fellowship.
He is a member of the Brookings Council and a trustee of Brown University, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Museum of Television and Radio. He is vice chairman of the Education Broadcasting Corporation and a director of the New York Outward Bound Center. Rattner serves on the International Competition Policy Advisory Committee, and in 1997, he was appointed by President Clinton to be a commissioner for the Commission to Study Capital Budgeting. Rattner continues to write on public policy issues for the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and the Financial Times.
**
Ambassador Rozanne L. Ridgway has been an American foreign policy leader since the Nixon administration. Her expertise as an international negotiator has been demonstrated in complex multilateral and bilateral agreements she has negotiated on behalf of the United States.
Miss Ridgway entered the Foreign Service in 1957 as information specialist in the Department. She was personnel officer in Manila (1959 - 62) and visa officer in Palermo (1962 - 64). In 1964 - 1967 she was international relations officer in the Bureau of European Affairs in the Department and political officer in Oslo in 1967 - 1970. In the Department she was desk officer for Ecuadorean Affairs (1970 - 1972), and Deputy Director of Policy Planning and Coordination in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs (1972 - 1973). In 1973 - 1975 she was Deputy Chief of Mission in Nassau.
In the early 1970s, Ridgway skillfully negotiated longstanding issues over fishing rights in Brazil, Peru and the Bahamas. This led to her appointment in 1976 as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Fisheries. During her tenure, she negotiated the 200-mile fishing rights treaty. Ridgway's subsequent negotiations led to the return of property of U.S. citizens from Czechoslovakia, an arrangement that will provide the basis for similar negotiations with Cuba when relations are normalized. Her success dealing with these issues -- a complicated mix of domestic politics, economics, foreign policy and international security issues -- prepared her for substantial contribution at the highest level of our government.
As Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Negotiations and, subsequently, the Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Canada, she was the lead negotiator at all five Reagan/ Gorbachev summits. These brought the first substantive reductions in nuclear weapons, signaled the beginning of the end of Communism and the Cold War, and established the fundamental realignment of global power as America prepared to enter the 21st century.
Between Ridgway's positions at the Department of State, she served as America's Ambassador to Finland from 1977 to 1980 and as the Ambassador to the German Democratic Republic between 1983 and 1985.
She capped her career as Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs from 1985 to 1989.
From 1989 to 1996, she was President and then Co-Chairman of the Atlantic Council of the U.S., a non- partisan network promoting constructive U.S. leadership and engagement in international affairs. In 1998, she was elected to the National Women's Hall of Fame.
Ms. Ridgway is currently a director for The Boeing Company, director for Emerson Electric Co., director for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company (3M), a director of Sara Lee Corporation, and the New Perspective Fund. She is also a Trustee for the Brookings Institution, the George C. Marshall Foundation board of trustees, the National Geographic Society and Hamline University, her alma mater in St. Paul, Minnesota. She has been a director of Manpower Inc. since February, 2002.
**
President, The University of Pennsylvania
Under the leadership of President Judith Rodin, the University of Pennsylvania’s reputation as one of the nation’s premier research and teaching universities has grown dramatically. Undergraduate education has been strengthened and enhanced, student interest has reached all-time highs, research funding has nearly doubled, annual fundraising has increased by 70%, and community relationships have measurably improved.
The first woman to be named to the Presidency of an Ivy League institution, Dr. Rodin is also the first Penn alumna to serve as President. Rodin graduated with honors in 1966 with a B.A. in psychology. She holds faculty appointments as a professor of psychology in the School of Arts and Sciences and as a professor of medicine and psychiatry in the School of Medicine. She returned to Penn after 22 years on the faculty of Yale University, where she served as provost from 1992 through 1994.
Rodin serves on the board of trustees of the Brookings Institution, is director of Catalyst, and a director of Greater Philadelphia First Corporation, and on the boards of Aetna, Inc., director of AMR Corporation, is a director of Electronic Data Systems and BlackRock Funds. She chairs the Council of Presidents of the Universities Research Association, serves on the board of directors for Innovation Philadelphia, and is a member of the executive committee of the Association of American Universities. She serves on the steering committee of college presidents for America Reads and the executive committee of the Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce. Rodin is also a member of the Council on Competitiveness.
Rodin served on President Clinton’s Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology and co-chaired the transition team of Philadelphia Mayor John F. Street. She also served from 1994-95 on a Presidential panel to review security at the White House.
Rodin has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
After earning her Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1970, Rodin joined the faculty of New York University as an assistant professor of psychology. She moved to Yale in 1972, was promoted to associate professor in 1975, named a full professor of psychology in 1979, and added the title of professor of medicine and psychiatry in 1985. Prior to her appointment as Yale’s provost in 1992, she served two years as chair of the department of psychology and one year as dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. From 1983 to 1993, she chaired an international research network studying health and behavior for the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.
Renowned for her work on the relationship between psychological and biological processes in human health and behavior, Rodin has published more than 200 articles and chapters in academic publications and authored or co-authored ten books.
http://www.upenn.edu/president/rodin/bio.htm
**
Partner, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
Warren B. Rudman became a partner of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in 1993 after serving two terms in the U.S. Senate representing New Hampshire. He provides clients with strategic advice regarding commercial and legislative matters. He concentrates on corporate and international law with a focus on corporate investigations. He has been retained by major international corporations and other institutions to conduct internal investigations and provide independent assessments of the organizations' business practices, governance structure or major initiatives. In 1993, he was asked by the board of directors of Thorn EMI plc to investigate allegations regarding the business practices of its U.S. rent-to-own subsidiary. In 1994-95, Rudman chaired a Select Committee appointed by the board of governors of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) to review the NASD governance and oversight of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Between 2000 and 2001 he served on the Sharm el-Sheikh Fact-Finding Committee (aka The Mitchell Report) which looked at the conflict between Israel and Palestinians.
While in the Senate, Rudman served on the Ethics Committee from 1985 until he left the Senate. As its chairman and vice chairman, he presided over numerous investigations including the Keating Five and was active in fashioning ethics legislation. In addition, he served on the Impeachment Panel for Judge Harry E. Claiborne and Judge Alycee Hastings.
In December 1986, Sen. Rudman was appointed vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee investigating arms transfers to Iran where he was instrumental in organizing and directing the investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Sen. Rudman served on the Senate Appropriations Committee, the Intelligence Committee, the Governmental Affairs Committee and the well-known Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
Prior to serving in the Senate, he served as attorney general of the State of New Hampshire from 1970 to 1976.
Currently, Sen. Rudman is a member of the board of directors of the Chubb Corporation, Allied Waste, Boston Scientific, Collins & Aikman and the Raytheon Company, and a trustee of several funds of the Dreyfus Corporation. In addition, President Clinton appointed him chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board where he served from 1993 to 2001. He serves on the Advisory Board of Stonebridge International. He is very active as co-chairman of the Concord Coalition, a non-profit organization which he founded and set up as a grass-roots movement to awaken the American people to the gravity of our nation's fiscal crisis. Sen. Rudman also serves on the board of trustees of Valley Forge Military Academy, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Brookings Institution. He is a member of the Senior Advisory Committee of the Institute of Politics of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
Sen. Rudman received his B.S. from Syracuse University in 1952 and served in the U.S. Army as a combat platoon leader and company commander during the Korean War. In 1960, he received his law degree from Boston College Law School.
http://www.paulweiss.com/frames/frameset.asp?url=/lawyers/bio.asp?employeeid=R477753401
Other activities inc. media appearances
**
Chairman and CEO, WellPoint Health Networks
LEONARD D. SCHAEFFER is chairman and chief executive officer of WellPoint, one of the nation's largest publicly traded health care companies. WellPoint serves more than 13 million medical members and 45 million specialty members. WellPoint's annualized revenues exceed $15 billion. Under his leadership, WellPoint has been selected by Fortune magazine as America's "Most Admired Health Care Company" for an unprecedented four consecutive years. WellPoint has alsbeen named by Forbes magazine as America's best large health insurance company and for the past three years, WellPoint has been named one of America's Top 25 Public Companies for Executive Women. Schaeffer was selected by BusinessWeek magazine as one of the "Top 25 Managers of the Year" and for three consecutive years by Worth magazine as one of the "50 Best CEOs in America."
WellPoint operates in five strategic geographies-California, Texas, the Midwest, the Southeast and the Mid-Atlantic states. Within these geographies, WellPoint provides quality branded health care products through Blue Cross of California, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Missouri, HealthLink and UNICARE. WellPoint Pharmacy Management is the nation's leading plan-owned pharmacy benefit management company.
Schaeffer joined WellPoint's predecessor, Blue Cross of California in 1986 as chairman and CEO. He managed the turnaround of Blue Cross of California and the transition tWellPoint, which is now one of the nation's most recognized and respected health insurance companies. Additionally, Schaeffer led the recapitalization of WellPoint in 1996, resulting in the creation of America's sixth largest philanthropy with a current endowment of more than $4 billion. WellPoint subsequently increased the value of The Missouri Foundation for Health tnearly $1 billion and endowed a Georgia- based independent charitable foundation with $113.8 million tprovide health care services tunderserved Georgians.
Under Schaeffer's leadership, WellPoint has acquired the group life and health business of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, the group health and related life businesses of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, Rush Prudential Health Plans of Illinois, PrecisionRx, a mail service pharmacy fulfillment center in Texas, Cerulean Companies, Inc.- parent company of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia and RightCHOICE Managed Care, Inc.-the parent company of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Missouri and HealthLink.WellPoint employs 16,300 full-time associates in more than 80 offices throughout the country.
Previously, Schaeffer was an executive of Citibank, Group Health, Inc. of Minnesota, and the Student Loan Marketing Association. Under President Carter, he was the administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) in the U.S. Department of Health Education and Welfare (now known as the Department of Health and Human Services). Before that, Schaeffer directed the Bureau of the Budget for the State of Illinois and alsserved as chairman of the Illinois Capital Development Board and deputy director for Management, Illinois Department of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities.
Schaeffer is active on the boards of numerous business, philanthropic, and professional organizations. A native of Evanston, Illinois, he is a graduate of Princeton University. Schaeffer and his wife, the former Pamela Sidford, have twchildren.
Corporate Board Memberships
Providian Financial Corporation
Health Care Board Memberships
Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association: Executive Committee
The Coalition for Affordable and Quality Healthcare: Founding Chairman
American Association of Health Plans
Health Insurance Association of America: Past Chairman
National Institute for Health Care Management: Chairman
National Health Foundation: Past Chairman
Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Science
Other Affiliations
The Brookings Institution: Board of Trustees
Harvard Medical School, Department of Healthcare Policy: Co- Chairman,Advisory Council
Princeton University, Department of Economics: Advisory Council
University of Southern California, School of Policy, Planning, and Development: Board of Councilors
Awards
Citation for Outstanding Service: American Academy of Pediatrics
Distinguished Public Service Award: U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare
**
President, Doris Duke Charitable Foundation
Joan E. Spero has been President of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation since January 1997. She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brookings Institution, the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and Columbia University. She has been a Director of First Data Corporation since March 1998 and is a director at Delta Air Lines. Ms. Spero was a member of the Board of Directors of Hercules Incorporated from 1985 to 1993 and acted as Chair of the Audit and Compensation Committees for periods of that time.
Spero served the Department of State as ambassador to the United Nations for Economic and Social Affairs in 1980-81. In that position, she formulated and executed United States policies on economic and social issues at the world organization and served as senior economic adviser to the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Donald F. McHenry. From 1981 to 1993, she was at the American Express Company, as vice president for corporate strategic planning (1981-83), vice president for international corporate affairs (1983-89), treasurer and senior vice president (1989-91), and executive vice president for corporate affairs and communications (1991-93). From 1993 to 1997, she served in the Clinton Administration as Undersecretary of State for Economic, Business, and Agricultural Affairs. She is the author of The Politics of International Economic Relations (fifth edition, 1997) and The Failure of the Franklin National Bank: Challenge to the International Banking System (1980), as well as numerous articles on international economic issues.
An undergraduate with honors at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Spero received an M.A. in international affairs and a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University, also studying at L'Institut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris. She was an assistant professor at Columbia from 1973 to 1979. She is married to C. Michael Spero, a New York attorney. They have two sons, Jason and Bejamin.
**
President and Co-COO, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
2001: Salary: $600,000
Bonus: $9,944,000
Total: $10,544,000
Mr. Thornton has been President and Co-Chief Operating Officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. since May 1999, and has been a director since August 1998. He was President of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999 and Co-Chief Operating Officer from January 1999 to May 1999. From August 1998 until January 1999, he had oversight responsibility for International Operations. From September 1996 until August 1998, he was Chairman, Goldman Sachs — Asia, in addition to his senior strategic responsibilities in Europe. From July 1995 to September 1997, he was Co-Chief Executive Officer for European Operations. Mr. Thornton is also a director of Ford Motor Company, BSkyB PLC, Laura Ashley Holdings plc and Pacific Century Group, Inc. In addition, he is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a director or trustee of several organizations, including the Asia Society, The Brookings Institution, The Goldman Sachs Foundation, the Hotchkiss School, Morehouse College, the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management and the Yale School of Management advisory board.
Businessweek: January 25th
1999
John L. Thornton likes to
recall the days of the 1980s and early 1990s when he was instructing British
CEOs in the fine art of defending their companies against hostile takeovers.
Thornton played the general in some landmark battles, helping to frustrate
legendary raider Lord Hanson in his bid for Imperial Chemical Industries and the
Lloyds Bank raid on rival Standard Chartered Bank. The high-profile defenses
helped transform Goldman, Sachs & Co. from a no-show in European finance to
one of the two or three kingpins in the Old World's recent merger and equities
boom. ''We took something we were very well known for in the U.S. and
transplanted it here,'' Thornton said in an interview.
Now, this Harvard- and
Yale-educated investment banker appears to have helped engineer a hostile
takeover at Goldman itself. He was an important player, observers say, in
pushing Jon S. Corzine to relinquish his chief executive post. But above all,
his new title of co-chief operating officer is recognition for Thornton's
success in establishing Goldman in the international sphere, where it now reaps
about a third of its revenue. Thornton realized soon after joining Goldman in
1980 that Europe had huge potential. He talked his way over to London in 1983
and has presided over the firm's growth from a few dozen to about 2,500 people
in Europe. ''Thornton is the dealmaker supreme,'' says a source close to
Goldman. ''He is the mastermind behind Goldman's success in
Europe.''
Associates say that an
important ingredient in Thornton's banking prowess has been his determined
pursuit of the rich and powerful. Thornton preaches to his minions that there
are only a few hundred CEOs and other key decision-makers around the world worth
Goldman's trouble. He has ingratiated himself with an elite crowd that includes
media magnate Rupert Murdoch, Ford Motor Chairman William Clay Ford Jr., Hong
Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing, and Percy N. Barnevik, chairman of ABB Asea Brown
Boveri.
CONTROVERSIAL. This
approach, backed with smart, tactical advice, has paid off handsomely. Thornton
and Goldman have become Murdoch's closest outside advisers. Goldman is arranging
British Sky Broadcasting's $1 billion purchase of the Manchester United soccer
club. And in 1994, Thornton persuaded a reluctant Murdoch to take broadcaster
Star Television Ltd. off the hands of Li Ka-shing for close to $1
billion.
In
1996, he also took charge of Asia, where Goldman was struggling. He helped land
major deals, including the biggest initial public offering ever, last year's $18
billion IPO of NTT DoCoMo, the Japanese mobile-phone
company.
Thornton's ascent to co-COO
is remarkable for an executive whose career was made entirely outside of the
U.S. Despite the promotion, he plans to stay in London, where his wife and three
children remained even when he was operating out of Asia.
Thornton has more than his
share of loyal fans. Among them is Charles Miller Smith, CEO of Imperial
Chemical, who has done a series of deals with Thornton over the past decade.
''He cuts right to the heart of the issue and forces people to see if there is a
deal or not,'' says Smith.
Inside the firm, though,
Thornton is controversial. His high profile and readiness to invade colleagues'
turf run contrary to Goldman's vaunted team approach. Some critics say he is a
poor manager and hirer, and that there is a glass ceiling for non-Americans in
Europe. On the other hand, some of Thornton's European proteges have proved to
be big winners, such as Alexander Dibelius, a German who represented Daimler in
its $35 billion takeover of Chrysler last year.
Not
all of his ventures have worked out either. His longstanding involvement with
troubled British retailer Laura Ashley, where he serves as chairman, has been an
embarrassment, with rescue plan after rescue plan falling flat. And the remaking
of ICI is still far from a success. Goldman is said to have earned more than
$100 million in fees advising ICI on the $8 billion purchase of Unilever's
specialty chemical business in 1997. But planned asset sales have gone awry,
leaving ICI with $7.3 billion in debt and its stock depressed. Thornton insists
that the Unilever deal was the right move for ICI.
HIGHER ASPIRATIONS. Much of
Thornton's time of late has been spent on Goldman's IPO, which was pulled last
September. Thornton opposed the move, and it is not hard to see why. He likes
the freedom to maneuver that a partnership affords. Still, now that Goldman is
reviving the IPO, Thornton is committed to helping push it
through.
Thornton is tantalizingly close to the top job at Goldman. But associates note that Thornton, a Democrat, has made no secret of his political aspirations. At 45, he is a rich man with a solid resume. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, a successful Goldman trader, has already shown the way.
**
President, COO, and Vice Chairman of the Board, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company
Vincent J. Trosino, vice chairman of the board, executive vice president and chief operating officer of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, began his career with State Farm in 1962. Following a series of promotions, he was elected regional vice president for the Northeastern region.
In 1986, Trosino returned to corporate headquarters to serve as vice president in the president's office, was elected executive vice president in 1987, chief operating officer in 1991, and vice chairman of the board in 1994. He was appointed by Illinois Governor Jim Edgar in 1992 to a four-year term as a public member of the State Judicial Board. He has served on the Illinois State University Foundation Board since 1990 and has been chairman since 1993. He received his bachelor's degree from Villanova University, a master's degree from Illinois State University, and resides in Bloomington, Illinois.
**
Founder, An-Bryce Foundation
Beatrice W. Welters entered the high tech industry in its infancy and was part of the revolution that transformed America's economy. During her seventeen-year career at IBM, Welters distinguished herself in a number of executive capacities, rising to the position of technical authority of IBM's marketing team.
In 1991, Welters left IBM to devote her full attention to a wide range of philanthropic and charitable causes, among them the An-Bryce Foundation — dedicated to improving the lives of disadvantaged children through educational opportunities — which she founded.
Welters serves on the board of directors of the National Symphony Orchestra, the Washington Opera, the Aspen Music Festival, and the Library of Congress Madison Council. She was co-chairman, along with her husband, of the 2002 Kennedy Center Spring Gala. She also established an endowment at New York University Law School for students of color who are the first in their families to enter law school.
**
Chairman, US Airways Group, Inc.
Mr. Wolf is non-executive Chairman of the Board of 1996 Directors of the Company and US Airways and has served in those positions since March 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Wolf served as Chairman of the Company and US Airways since January 1996. He reassumed the position of Chief Executive Officer of the companies in November 2001 when Mr. Gangwal resigned those positions. Mr. Wolf also served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from January 1996 until November 1998, and as the Chief Executive Officer of US Airways from January 1996 until May 1998. Immediately prior to joining US Airways, Mr. Wolf was a senior advisor to the investment bank Lazard Freres & Co. Mr. Wolf was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of UAL Corporation and United Air Lines, Inc. from December 1987 until July 1994. Mr. Wolf is a Director of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., a director of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co., The Brookings Institution, Georgetown University and the World Wildlife Fund.
**
Chairman, Cambridge Energy Research Associates
Daniel Yergin is a highly respected authority on international politics and economics and on energy. He is also President of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and Vice Chairman of the Global Decisions Group. He is both a Pulitzer Prize winner and recipient of the 1997 United States Energy Award for "lifelong achievements in energy and the promotion of international understanding." His new book, The Commanding Heights: The Battle Between Government and the Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World, coauthored with Dr. Joseph A. Stanislaw, is receiving wide attention for its analysis and narrative of how the "world is changing its mind." The Wall Street Journal wrote: "No one could ask for a better account of the world's political and economic destiny since World War II." The New York Times Sunday Book Review said that The Commanding Heights "manages a most impressive feat: to tell a real-world story in multiple dimensions and make it read like a novel." And The Los Angeles Times: a book "whose readability is irresistible." And Foreign Affairs: "No other book describes so thoroughly the scope of the world's economic transformation."
Dr. Yergin received the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction for his work The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power, which became a #1 national best seller and was made into an eight-hour PBS/BBC series seen by 20 million people in the United States. The book has been translated into 12 languages. His book, Russia 2010 and What It Means for the World, coauthored with Thane Gustafson, depicted the turmoil in Russia's move to a market economy.
Dr. Yergin is a member of the Board of the United States Energy Association and a member of the National Petroleum Council. He is also a member of the US Secretary of Energy's Advisory Board and chaired the US Department of Energy's Task Force on Strategic Energy Research and Development. He has also been a speaker at the World Economic Forum.
Dr. Yergin received his BA from Yale University and his PhD from Cambridge University. He holds honorary degrees from the University of Houston and the University of Missouri. Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is an international consulting and advisory firm of 200 people, with offices in Cambridge, Mass.; Washington, DC; Oakland, Calif.; Paris; Oslo; Moscow; Buenos Aires; Mexico City; Hong Kong; and Calgary.
http://www.ml.com/woml/forum/yergin.htm
