# Think You Know Vladimir Putin? - Look Again!

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalization_eu31.htm

by Brian Preston September 2014 from Viewzone Website
Spanish version
With his stand against an attack on Syria,
Vladimir Putin has emerged
as the moral leader of the free world.
It may be just the latest global chess move to further push the world's population into war but I've noticed the mainstream media's coverage of Vladimir Putin has taken an undeserved bad turn. Back in 2013 Putin single handedly defused an impending invasion of Syria and a confrontation with Russia when he suggested that the Assad regime give up their chemical weapons to a team of international inspectors. This ingenious and successful solution probably saved us all from a nuclear confrontation and was recognized by giving credit (and the Nobel Peace Prize) to the international inspectors - totally ignoring Putin's role. Lately, Vladimir Putin has been portrayed in the propaganda style of the Cold War era. Despite over 75% popularity in Russia, the West seems bent on making him look bad and downplaying any peace efforts he attempts. And, as I write this report, Mr. Putin has just brokered a ceasefire between the pro-Moscow militants and the Ukraine government, ending months of conflict and thousands of lives just as NATO was about to send 10,000 troops to the battle lines with Russia.
Whew! Thank you again, Mr. Putin. As you will read below, Putin has demonstrated morality and the drive towards peace in his post-Soviet leadership career. In reading the truth about Vladimir Putin, you will hopefully see the real enemy of civilization. The enemy that wants a global war. Just recently, August 29, Russian President Vladimir Putin called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a "humanitarian corridor" to allow and estimated 700 Ukrainian troops to escape from their positions where they are surrounded in the eastern town of Novoazovsk.
"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations," Putin said in a statement.
This was agreed upon by the rebel leader and the troops are moving home. You didn't read about this on CNN or Fox. You also likely don't know that the US now believes that Ukraine jets downed the Malaysian airline - not the pro-separatists militia.
The state sponsored news media were too busy telling us that Russia had "invaded" Ukraine and justifying this report to muster 10,000 NATO troops to confront the 20,000 Russian troops that will face off at the border. And so the game begins... a dangerous game.
* * *
In a scene even more vile than The Godfather, Saudi Prince Bandar, in a face-to-face meeting with Vladimir Putin in July (2013), secretly recorded and leaked to a British newspaper, tried to emulate the Temptation of 'Christ' by offering Russia a partnership in the OPEC oil cartel.
"All this I will give you, if you will let the Assad regime fall." Source
"All this I will give you, if you will let the Assad regime fall."
Source
But Mr. Putin had more integrity and morality than the Saudi.
Even more than the bankers and investors salivating to use Syria for their natural gas pipeline from Qatar to Turkey and on to the European market. Even more than the Zionists bent on moving LNG (liquid natural gas) from the huge off-shore Laviathan gas field, (claimed by Lebanon) through Syria over Assad's objections. (Yes. It's really all about gas this time.) Frustrated by his integrity and motivated by psychopathic greed and money lust, the threats were next.
"I can give you a guarantee to protect the Winter Olympics next year. The Chechen groups that threaten the security of the games are controlled by us." (hint-hint)
Speaking of the Chechen rebels, a kin to al Qaeda, the Saudi Prince added,
"These groups do not scare us. We use them in the face of the Syrian regime but they will have no role in Syria's political future." [example]
These are the same people, remember, who did 9-11 [see new evidence implicating the Saudis: Syrian Parliament Letter to the U.S. House of Representatives - The Main Factor of 9/11 Attacks was the Hatred Wahhabi Jihadist Ideology adopted and financed by Saudis].
Vladimir Putin, the 60 year old leader of Russia, was unmoved.
"Our stance on Assad will never change. We believe that the Syrian regime is the best speaker on behalf of the Syrian people, and not those liver eaters."
He made reference to YouTube footage showing the barbaric act of a Jihadist rebel cutting open the body of a Syrian soldier and eating his heart and liver. After all the insanity, false-flag propaganda and scripted speeches about morality by leaders guilty of the same atrocities, Russia's Vladimir Putin has emerged without being diminished. By being himself he has risen to the role of a global peacemaker and all eyes are upon him now for sanity and moral direction.
He stands alone. Recently, September 4th, 2013, Vladimir Putin stated his strong condemnation of the use of sarin gas against civilians of Syria, no matter who is to blame. He let it be known that, if strong evidence indicates the Assad regime was indeed responsible for this, he would throttle back his support for the leader and might support a UN sanctioned attack to prevent further abuse.
But he wants to see the proof. On September 9th, 2013, Putin approached Syrian leader Assad with a plan:
Surrender all your chemical weapons to an international group and avoid the start of WW3.
Assad agreed and, later on, Obama also agreed that this was a good solution.
Bravo, Mr. Putin! This is truly worthy of a Peace Prize. As Americans, we know little about this man. Decades of hatred and propaganda against the Soviet Union have tainted our view of all Russian leaders, save maybe Mikhail Gorbachev. They have become the mental equivalent of Stalin. But Mr. Putin is different.
Here, he shares stories about his birthplace and early years (something we cannot say for America's current 'leader') and gives us an opportunity to see the moral development of this remarkable leader, whose time is ripe.
Putin's childhood - An ordinary family Russia is a sparsely populated country with only 8 people for every 20 square miles. Most of its 160 plus ethnicities are unassuming people who value their own culture and have learned to accept diversity and focus on the practical things of life. Vladimir Putin was born in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg) on October 7, 1952.
"I come from an ordinary family, and this is how I lived for a long time, nearly my whole life. I lived as an average, normal person and I have always maintained that connection."
Putin's mother was known to be a kind person who cooked the ethnic Russian food that Vladimir still enjoys today.
"We lived simply - cabbage soup, cutlets, pancakes, but on Sundays and holidays my Mom would bake very delicious stuffed buns [pirozhki] with cabbage, meat and rice, and curd tarts [vatrushki]."
His mom was a bit over-protective of him as a child.
When young Vladimir took up Judo at school, she let her disapproval be known until the school's coach made a personal visit to tell her that her son was an "exceptional athlete". Then her attitude changed to pride. His Dad, also named Vladimir, struggled to keep his family alive in the 1950s and moved them out of the impoverished city of St. Petersburg (Leningrad) to a country town and a more simple life in the Tiver Region where his grandmother lived.
Mr. Putin likes to admit that he still owns that small house where they all lived, and his family often vacations there.
As a teen, Vladimir was bored and became a troublemaker but this was attributed to his intelligence combined with a lack of stimulation.
His 6th grade teacher, Vera Gurevich, recalls,
"In the fifth grade, he still hadn't found himself yet, but I could feel the potential, the energy and the character in him. I saw that he had a great deal of interest in language; he picked it up easily. He had a very good memory and an agile mind."
In an interview, Gurevich said,
"I thought, something good will come of this boy, so I decided to give him more attention, to distract him from the boys on the streets."
It was at this point in his life that Putin decided to take control of his destiny, to become serious about his studies, and made goals for himself.
"It became clear that street smarts were not enough, so I began doing sports. But even that was not enough for maintaining my status, so to speak, for very long. I realized that I also needed to study well."
"It became clear that street smarts were not enough, so I began doing sports. But even that was not enough for maintaining my status, so to speak, for very long.
I realized that I also needed to study well."
Leningrad State University and KGB school
"Even before I finished high school, I wanted to work in intelligence. Granted, soon after, I decided I wanted to be a sailor, but then I wanted to do intelligence again. In the very beginning, I wanted to be a pilot."
Putin went to a public reception office of the KGB Directorate to find out how to become an intelligence officer.
There, he was told that first, he would have to either serve in the army or complete college, preferably with a degree in law. In 1970, Vladimir Putin became a student of the law department at Leningrad State University, earning his Law degree in 1975.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Mr. Putin studied at KGB School No.1 in Moscow - quite an honor.
"We had a class of 100 people, and only 10 of them entered immediately after high school, the rest had already completed military service. So for us, the high-school graduates, only one out of 40 was admitted. I got four out of five for the essay, but top marks for everything else, so I passed." "When I began studying at the university, new goals and new values emerged. I mainly focused on studies, and began seeing sports as secondary. But, of course, I trained on a regular basis and participated in nation-wide competitions, almost out of habit."
"We had a class of 100 people, and only 10 of them entered immediately after high school, the rest had already completed military service.
So for us, the high-school graduates, only one out of 40 was admitted. I got four out of five for the essay, but top marks for everything else, so I passed." "When I began studying at the university, new goals and new values emerged. I mainly focused on studies, and began seeing sports as secondary.
But, of course, I trained on a regular basis and participated in nation-wide competitions, almost out of habit."
After graduating from Leningrad State University, Putin was assigned to work in the state security agencies.
He was first appointed to the Directorate secretariat, then the counter-intelligence division, where he worked for about five months. Half a year later, he was sent to operations personnel retraining courses.
He spent another six months working in the counterintelligence division.
Putin's intellect and integrity caught the attention of his superiors
"Fairly quickly, I left for special training in Moscow, where I spent a year. Then I returned again to Leningrad, worked there in the First Main Directorate - the intelligence service. That directorate had branches in major cities of the Soviet Union, including Leningrad. I worked there for about four and a half years."
"Fairly quickly, I left for special training in Moscow, where I spent a year. Then I returned again to Leningrad, worked there in the First Main Directorate - the intelligence service.
That directorate had branches in major cities of the Soviet Union, including Leningrad. I worked there for about four and a half years."
Then Mr. Putin returned again to Moscow to study at the Andropov Red Banner Institute, where he was trained prior to his assignment in Germany. Vladimir met Lyudmila on a date. They became close friends first, then love and marriage followed in 1983. In 1985, before their departure for Germany, Vladimir and Lyudmila Putin welcomed their first daughter, Maria. Their second daughter, Katerina, was born in 1986, in Dresden.
Both girls were named in honor of their grandmothers, Maria Putina and Yekaterina Shkrebneva.
In 1985-1990, Vladimir Putin worked in East Germany at the local intelligence office in Dresden. Over the course, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel and to the position of senior assistant to the head of the department.
In 1989, he was awarded the bronze medal issued in the German Democratic Republic, For Faithful Service to the National People's Army.
"My work was going well. It was a normal thing to be promoted just once while working abroad. I was promoted twice."
After returning to Leningrad from Germany in 1990, Vladimir Putin became assistant to the rector of Leningrad State University in charge of international relations. In 1996, he and his family moved to Moscow, where his political career began.
Putin's leadership history Following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Putin retired from the KGB with the rank of colonel, and returned to Leningrad as a supporter of Anatoly Sobchak (1937-2000), a liberal politician. After Sobchak won election as mayor of Leningrad (1991), Putin became his head of external relations; in 1994, Putin became Sobchak's first deputy mayor. After Sobchak's defeat in 1996, Putin resigned his post and moved to Moscow. In 1998, Putin was appointed deputy head of management under Boris Yeltsin's presidential administration. In that position, he was in charge of the Kremlin's relations with the regional governments. Shortly afterward, Putin was appointed head of the Federal Security, an arm of the former KGB, as well as head of Yeltsin's Security Council. In 1999, recognizing his integrity, Russian president Boris Yeltsin dismissed his prime minister and promoted former KGB officer Vladimir Putin in his place. In December 1999, Yeltsin resigned, appointing Putin president. He was easily re-elected in 2004. In April 2005, Putin made a historic visit to Israel - he first visit there by any Kremlin leader. Putin could not run for the presidency again in 2008, but was appointed prime minister by his successor, Dmitry Medvedev. In March 2012, Putin was re-elected to the presidency, where he currently is embarking on uniting his country's people, restoring their religion and culture, and forging "peace through diplomacy" with the rest of the world. His moral opposition to conflict, regime change and war - as a means to achieve peace - became evident with the attack on America's WTC and Pentagon by alleged al Qaeda. In September 2001, in response to the terrorist attacks on the United States, he announced Russia's stance as a U.S. ally. Soon after, however, he announced his opposition - along with the French and German governments - to the U.S. "war on terror," which focused on ridding Iraq of its then-leader, Saddam Hussein. Always a Christian and family man, in December 2012 Putin signed into a law a ban on the U.S. adoption of Russian children. According to Putin, the legislation - taking effect on January 1, 2013 - aims to make it easier for Russians to adopt native orphans. Many Americans, hoping to adopt a Russian orphan, misunderstood his good intentions. Putin further strained relations with the United States by granting asylum to Edward Snowden who is wanted by the United States for leaking classified information from the National Security Agency on that agency's global (and illegal) spying activities. Vladimir Putin's Personal Life In 1980, Putin met his future wife, Lyudmila, who was working as a flight attendant at the time. The couple married in 1983 and had two daughters: Maria, born in 1985, and Yekaterina, born in 1986. In early June 2013, after nearly 30 years of marriage, Russia's first couple announced that they were getting a divorce, providing little explanation for the decision, but assuring that they came to it mutually and amicably. "There are people who just cannot put up with it," Putin stated. "Lyudmila Alexandrovna has stood watch for eight, almost nine years." Providing more context to the decision, Lyudmila added, "Our marriage is over because we hardly ever see each other. Vladimir Vladimirovich is immersed in his work, our children have grown and are living their own lives." An Orthodox Christian, Putin is open about his faith. "This is a very special place for Orthodox Christians and the whole Christian world. In Russia, we always held the monks who lived here in great admiration and respect." Religious practice, which was outlawed under the Soviet Union's regime, has been restored. The most popular form is the Russian Orthodox Church, to which Vladimir Putin belongs.
Putin's leadership history Following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Putin retired from the KGB with the rank of colonel, and returned to Leningrad as a supporter of Anatoly Sobchak (1937-2000), a liberal politician.
After Sobchak won election as mayor of Leningrad (1991), Putin became his head of external relations; in 1994, Putin became Sobchak's first deputy mayor. After Sobchak's defeat in 1996, Putin resigned his post and moved to Moscow. In 1998, Putin was appointed deputy head of management under Boris Yeltsin's presidential administration. In that position, he was in charge of the Kremlin's relations with the regional governments. Shortly afterward, Putin was appointed head of the Federal Security, an arm of the former KGB, as well as head of Yeltsin's Security Council. In 1999, recognizing his integrity, Russian president Boris Yeltsin dismissed his prime minister and promoted former KGB officer Vladimir Putin in his place. In December 1999, Yeltsin resigned, appointing Putin president. He was easily re-elected in 2004. In April 2005, Putin made a historic visit to Israel - he first visit there by any Kremlin leader. Putin could not run for the presidency again in 2008, but was appointed prime minister by his successor, Dmitry Medvedev. In March 2012, Putin was re-elected to the presidency, where he currently is embarking on uniting his country's people, restoring their religion and culture, and forging "peace through diplomacy" with the rest of the world. His moral opposition to conflict, regime change and war - as a means to achieve peace - became evident with the attack on America's WTC and Pentagon by alleged al Qaeda. In September 2001, in response to the terrorist attacks on the United States, he announced Russia's stance as a U.S. ally.
Soon after, however, he announced his opposition - along with the French and German governments - to the U.S. "war on terror," which focused on ridding Iraq of its then-leader, Saddam Hussein. Always a Christian and family man, in December 2012 Putin signed into a law a ban on the U.S. adoption of Russian children.
According to Putin, the legislation - taking effect on January 1, 2013 - aims to make it easier for Russians to adopt native orphans. Many Americans, hoping to adopt a Russian orphan, misunderstood his good intentions. Putin further strained relations with the United States by granting asylum to Edward Snowden who is wanted by the United States for leaking classified information from the National Security Agency on that agency's global (and illegal) spying activities.
Vladimir Putin's Personal Life In 1980, Putin met his future wife, Lyudmila, who was working as a flight attendant at the time.
The couple married in 1983 and had two daughters: Maria, born in 1985, and Yekaterina, born in 1986.
In early June 2013, after nearly 30 years of marriage, Russia's first couple announced that they were getting a divorce, providing little explanation for the decision, but assuring that they came to it mutually and amicably.
"There are people who just cannot put up with it," Putin stated. "Lyudmila Alexandrovna has stood watch for eight, almost nine years."
Providing more context to the decision, Lyudmila added,
"Our marriage is over because we hardly ever see each other. Vladimir Vladimirovich is immersed in his work, our children have grown and are living their own lives."
An Orthodox Christian, Putin is open about his faith.
"This is a very special place for Orthodox Christians and the whole Christian world. In Russia, we always held the monks who lived here in great admiration and respect."
Religious practice, which was outlawed under the Soviet Union's regime, has been restored. The most popular form is the Russian Orthodox Church, to which Vladimir Putin belongs.
A life-long athlete, family man, devoted patriot and Christian, Vladimir Putin is a man whose time has come.
While other leaders fester in corruption, broken promises and political stench, Putin has risen above the mire and stands tall as the world's (perhaps only) hope for rational, sane and humanistic guidance.
He stands alone...
Return to Russia and The EU
