# To Catch A Falling Star

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_nwo18.htm

by William Dean Ross
from Wovoca Website
I was raised a materialist-ultraliberal-atheist-evolutionist and was on the extremeleft of the Democratic Party for the majority of my life until a series of traumatic events and spiritual experiences changed me. Now I am a constitutionalist politically and a Christian spiritually. What is wrong with being in the National Rifle Association and being a conscious environmentalist at the same time? I want to keep our guns, keep our jobs; but, also, keep our trees and fresh water. It seems like our political parties say we have to think only one way or the other. What is wrong with seeing angels, demons, believing in metaphysical apparitions and expecting spiritual messages from God?
Although, the Prophets of the Bibles Old Testament and the Disciples of the New Testament experienced metaphysical occurrences, todays American-Europeanized Christianity denounces it as evil or existing only in the minds of the mentally ill. Why is it we are always handed down only two religious and two political options with a struggling third alternative that only assures a monopoly of the first two? In this writing you will learn that once again, both the New Age Movement and Christianity are being duped by the realm of dark forces and UFOs play a major part in it. After my eye opening experiences on a clandestine governmentcivilian college meta-science project, I, eventually, woke up to this duality and saw the two heads of the Beast. I see certain truths in all and everything, but a hidden evil agenda waiting for it all to cohesively mix. I find myself revolting against a new system of government and religion that is falsely presenting itself as the "Great Humanitarian" and the "Master Of Peace."
In reality, the New World Order and Parliament of World religions are wolves hiding under a sheep skins. The New World Order was originally conceived by men and women with good intentions; but, it will be assumed later on by the absolute power of evil itself. Having explained my theological world view, I will now tell my personal experience:
At age 30 I had some paranormal experiences with my girlfriend; she was from a family of witches. This threw me into a nervous breakdown and almost destroyed me. When an atheist sees objects flying across the room and a witch teaching her daughter demonology it changes his mind. Needless to say, I left my live-in black-witchcraft girlfriend and headed for the hills as fast as I could before being eaten by a Gremlin. I then met my wife to be, a Christian, who put humpty-dumpty back together again. She introduced me to the Bible and other ancient writings that spoke of angels, demons, and a variety of interdimensional beings. I proceeded to study - especially prophecy - at a fanatics level sticking to my own opinions and not what some man-made denomination tried to tell me. This study, meditation and prayer somehow opened a door to a different more spiritual life style, spiritual insights and coincidences. It also opened the door to seeing visions and interdimensional entities - angels and demons. At times, they were very vivid and as physical as the chair you are sitting in right now. I also saw visions such as the Berlin Wall coming down 6 months before it actually happened and the Chernobyl nuclear accident 3 days before it happened and to the exact location. I have had many visions that have already happened and some that are presently happening and some that are to come in the future. Please do not ask me to look into a crystal ball and do not start writing me out checks I am neither "a preacher- for- profit", a "money-mongering-monk" nor a "goldgetting-guru." Turn off your television and dont waste your money on them. It is better to give it to the poor in your neighborhoodat least you know the food made it into their mouths. I bounced from church to church with great disappointment. The so-called "spiritual people" believed in nothing spiritual-if that makes any sense! They are into emotional sensuality with great charismatic speakers and tear-jerking musicians. In a way it is a carnal materialistic self-seeking lust for entertainment almost like pornography! If the real Jesus walked in the front door, they would leap out of the windows! I fell into the New Age Movement on the project; because, they would at least listen to me. A few years after the project, I realized my plague of demons were a result of the Black Arts New Age Movement. I had to force myself to study the Bible again. Gradually, the dark veil lifted and I was liberated. I am not an evangelist or a spiritual saint. I am only struggling to stay out of the darkness. Only self-study of the Bible, self-mediation and reaching God through prayer saved me from destruction. The New Age Movement, the pragmatic humanitarians, and traditional Christianity were all totally useless.
At age 30 I had some paranormal experiences with my girlfriend; she was from a family of witches. This threw me into a nervous breakdown and almost destroyed me. When an atheist sees objects flying across the room and a witch teaching her daughter demonology it changes his mind. Needless to say, I left my live-in black-witchcraft girlfriend and headed for the hills as fast as I could before being eaten by a Gremlin. I then met my wife to be, a Christian, who put humpty-dumpty back together again. She introduced me to the Bible and other ancient writings that spoke of angels, demons, and a variety of interdimensional beings. I proceeded to study - especially prophecy - at a fanatics level sticking to my own opinions and not what some man-made denomination tried to tell me. This study, meditation and prayer somehow opened a door to a different more spiritual life style, spiritual insights and coincidences. It also opened the door to seeing visions and interdimensional entities - angels and demons. At times, they were very vivid and as physical as the chair you are sitting in right now. I also saw visions such as the Berlin Wall coming down 6 months before it actually happened and the Chernobyl nuclear accident 3 days before it happened and to the exact location. I have had many visions that have already happened and some that are presently happening and some that are to come in the future. Please do not ask me to look into a crystal ball and do not start writing me out checks I am neither "a preacher- for- profit", a "money-mongering-monk" nor a "goldgetting-guru." Turn off your television and dont waste your money on them. It is better to give it to the poor in your neighborhoodat least you know the food made it into their mouths. I bounced from church to church with great disappointment. The so-called "spiritual people" believed in nothing spiritual-if that makes any sense! They are into emotional sensuality with great charismatic speakers and tear-jerking musicians. In a way it is a carnal materialistic self-seeking lust for entertainment almost like pornography! If the real Jesus walked in the front door, they would leap out of the windows! I fell into the New Age Movement on the project; because, they would at least listen to me. A few years after the project, I realized my plague of demons were a result of the Black Arts New Age Movement.
I had to force myself to study the Bible again. Gradually, the dark veil lifted and I was liberated. I am not an evangelist or a spiritual saint. I am only struggling to stay out of the darkness. Only self-study of the Bible, self-mediation and reaching God through prayer saved me from destruction. The New Age Movement, the pragmatic humanitarians, and traditional Christianity were all totally useless.
Several years ago, I went to the Edgar Cayce Foundation at Virginia Beach and took some ESP tests. My wife and I aced the tests. The participating crowd and the staff were amazed. They took our names. We then went upstairs to the library to look around. While I was reading a Masonic book, I overheard a conversation between several men around the wall. They said that they had just come back from Moscow and were talking about a secret experiment that was conducted in Sweden. It involved CIA and KGB agents in an underground radio/television wave-proof room trance-channeling to the dead. For the first time, they were able to bring from the dead Albert Einstein and display him on television and ask him questions.
(This merger of the CIA and KGB happened several months before the Berlin Wall came down thus the Cold War was still on, but, only in the eyes of the public. For mass media mind control see their own brainwashing manual written for newspaper editors and TV networks - called "Electronic Colonialism" written by Thomas McPhael, 1987. The men attending were Oleg Jefimenco, a West Virginia University Professor and Telekinesis Expert; Dr. John Sutton, Technical Officer of Goddard Space Flight Center; C. B. Scott Jones, NIS/NSA and President of the Human Potential Foundation; Colonel John Alexander, Leader of the Non-Lethal Weapons Division, of the D.O.D., and Hugh Lynn Cayce, Jr. A few years later, Dr. Spaniol of West Virginia State College at Institute, West Virginia, was on a campaign to bring a "new wave" industrial triangle to the state. We organized seminars with politicians, businessmen, the captains-of-industry and the federal government to initiate "research and development triads" with inventors incubators for a "new science." (One all day meeting at West Virginia State College in collaboration with NASA - was filmed and televised as the "Day of Discovery." I have a copy of the entire event.) If you were to listen to the NASA scientists on my videos talking to the college professors and politicians, there is a "double-speak." It clearly indicates NASA is not interested in looking for life in outerspace, but rather in the inner earth and the invisible inter-dimensions around us. (On the "Day of Discovery" video Dr. Gerald Suffon openly states that this is the "Esoteric Crew of Goddard and they are much more interested in the inner-earth than in outerspace!") Hollywood and the media in general have pounded the public with the "life in outer space" theme, the "Crash at Roswell", the "Alien Autopsy", physical aliens being cloned and reverse engineering of flying saucers. The real truth lies in what certain rogue departments of the government are doing silently on their own. What I learned is not from some conspiracy web-site or good science fiction novel, it is from doing work for NASA on a civilian level.
Being a "test-rat" or "guinea-pig" in some of their esoteric and microwave experiments. While the major book publishers and Hollywood drum-up more nonsense for both the skeptic and believer to mislead them under the long-standing management of the intelligence agencies, we in the know squealers are totally ignored and labeled "kooks"! (This "test rat" escaped the cage, took the mad professors notes with him and ate the cheese on the way out and can and will prove it!) In December of 1992, I was approached by Dr. Spaniol to enter a "project within a project". West Virginia State College had an ELF EARTH WAVE PROJECT sponsored and funded by NASA. I worked on extremely low earth frequency analysis E.L.F. - on campus 20 hours a week and then worked on a clandestine NASA/NSA field project in the rural countryside near my home another 20 to 40 hours a week. The majority of students and staff associated with the project stayed on campus and were unaware of the secret project. A minority of the students and staff worked with me in the field on weekends. During the week, I a staff person - was "in-the-field" by myself making contact with a variety of entities some were from UFOs (flying saucers, etc.). In December of 1992 the same group of men, that I met years earlier at the Edgar Cayce Foundation, were at the meeting with others including Dr. Steve Basset and Dr. Greer. They all met somewhere in Virginia either at Langley or at the Edgar Cayce Foundation. I do not know for sure because they lied to me so much I was left confused and misinformed most of the time. They had a government paid psychic, Anna Himalayan, probably a fake name.
She was trance channeling the Ascended Masters down to meet me in West Virginia. This all happened before I even knew that I was the "chosen-one." (I have most of the audiotapes of the conversations and trance-channeling sessions Dr. Craig Spaniol recorded. By the way, all videotapes and audiotapes have been copied and hidden in many locations over the past several years. I only pass out to the public a little of each topic I discuss which includes UFO film shots, team meetings, personal ID cards, and other proof documented on 30 hours of video.) A couple of years earlier, I moved to Liberty, West Virginia, between Ghost Hollow and Loom Tree Hollow. In the dictionary the second definition of "loom" means UFO - an unidentified light or illuminated object moving on the horizon! Thus, we could then call it "UFO Tree Hollow refer to a Sissonsville Quadrant map of this area. I had to figure that one out on my own. Keeping me in the dark was a very important feature of their little game. The Black Operations compartments of the departments of the federal government always tell the naive corporations and colleges that they are doing "A" when in reality they are working on "B"! Who is going to volunteer to be microwaved into the next dimension - as in "Beam me up Scotty?"
The untold contract also includes follow-up visits (in the future) by "damageandcontrol" to finish you off with what will appear to your relatives and the public as a natural cancerous death or heart attack. If you are a "chosen one", like myself, expect to be shadowed by white vans, black helicopters and snipers in the bushes outside your home radiating your body with deadly E.L.F. until they kill you. What I thought was amusing is that Dr. Greer and Dr. Basset were head of an organization that was supposedly "lobbying" Congress and the President to force the CIA to admit that they have a crashed (physical) saucer and dead (physical) aliens. But, here they are involved in communicating to the spirit-realm via mediums or witches called psychics to bring the interdimensional "Etherians" to earth. What a sharp contrast to what they are supposed to believe in and what they really believe in. As usual, the radio and television shows put these characters on and they continue to "hoodwink" the public. (Some of these dis/mis-information officers are MC victims themselves and the public just writes them off as eccentric "nut-cases"!) Next, the psychic said the Etherians wanted them to use the property of a man that owns 6,000 to 12,000 acres. This "mystery-man" would be open to UFOs, the Esoteric, and the Occult. The "mystery man" would also be a businessman, an ex-chemical engineer, and had a lot of contact with UFOs in the past. Later in the project, I proved that the government-paid psychics were wrong on absolutely everything that had to do with the UFOs and the aliens.
The only thing they were correct on were actual physical observations that were derived through intelligence surveillance efforts. Thus, proving the project to be an effort of the CIA to experiment with electronic mind control, electronic occultism, and create a holographic/ hologramic benevolent space brother' New World Order Religion. A strong delusion perpetrated by a collusion of high-tech sorcerers and cosmic tricksters. I had just moved to Liberty and met the mystery man, Bob Ranson, storeowner and postmaster of Liberty. He was an ex-Army Intelligence person; engineer and owner of an oil company that went bankrupt because of the Rockefellers, and owned 6,000 acres at one time in the Liberty area. Bob knew where Ancient Adena and Poca Indian Holy sites were located. He and his father used to dig up graves of the Mound Builders. In fact, he invited me up to his house and we talked about philosophy, politics and science. Being a Mason, he had a tendency to be sort of esoteric and very eccentric. Bob claimed he had powers and had also seen the "UFO folk" out in this area since WWII. The Project Manager, Carl Anderson of Mt. Olive, West Virginia, years later, told me similar things. Carl was also ex-army officer during the early VietnamEra and based at airfields the "Air America" CIA used in Cambodia. In civilian life, he worked as an Industrial Engineer manager in California. He has mingled with a variety of New Ager, UFO and healing groups. On several occasions, he hinted that he had psychic abilities that were used by the government-on and off-for quite some time. He contends he would not join as an agent and totally sell his soul to the Devil as Doc did.
(I know that Dr. Spaniol continues to do 3-D secret work on Department of Defense E.L.F. projects, which could possibly vary from weather and mind control to cosmic communications or deadly microwave weapons.)
I personally have seen Carl do incredible feats of remote viewing and psychic-parameter viewing; he is very talented in feeling out earth energies and vibes from people. Carl lives near one of the UFO portal-vortex hot zones and Bob lived near another UFO portalvortex hot-zone which was on his own 6000 acres of land.
See on the Internet Web the following:
(A) http://www.visitations.com/ufofiles/basemaps/map3.htm (B) http://www.america-collins.com/biomaps.htm (C) http://ghcc.msfc.nasa.gov/archeology/chao.html (D) http://earthchangestv.com/science_spirit/index2000.htm
(A) http://www.visitations.com/ufofiles/basemaps/map3.htm
(B) http://www.america-collins.com/biomaps.htm
(C) http://ghcc.msfc.nasa.gov/archeology/chao.html
(D) http://earthchangestv.com/science_spirit/index2000.htm
and you will see why the World Futurist and Federalist Societies are trying to eliminate people and make space for "The Gods!"
images recovered from above non-working "link"
When I quit, after two years on the UFO contactee project, Bob and Dr. Spaniol tried to recruit other people. They all had the same profile as me:
(1) Totally new to the area. (2) Male. (3) 5ft. /7 in. to 8 in (4) Dark brown hair. (5) Open to the occult. (6) Have seen interdimensional entities (angels and demons) and /or UFOs. (7) Were associated with Dr. Spaniol in some capacity. (8) Had a background as an electrician or electronic technician. (By the way, Carl by this time had his own team working the areas closer to Ohio.)
(1) Totally new to the area.
(2) Male.
(3) 5ft. /7 in. to 8 in
(4) Dark brown hair.
(5) Open to the occult.
(6) Have seen interdimensional entities (angels and demons) and /or UFOs.
(7) Were associated with Dr. Spaniol in some capacity.
(8) Had a background as an electrician or electronic technician. (By the way, Carl by this time had his own team working the areas closer to Ohio.)
This story goes on and on. I have made thousands of notes trying to figure this out. I have spent countless hours in the woods making close contact with a variety of interdimensional entities. I have on film the professors out in the field with UFOs and me in the background. I also have on video pre-field team meetings in Bobs store. It was obvious I was being "snowballed", "hood-winked" and mislead from very critical information. I caught onto it all too late to get the whole truth, but soon enough to set up a situation that would prove the psychics and the government out to be "witch-doctor social engineers." Later in the game a team member, who was a NSA agent, put a sedative in my drink and I was unconscious for several hours. After he left I found a strange hole in my neck which I suspected was an implant. On another occasion, I was with him on a camping trip and I was supposedly abducted, according to him. Fortunately, I had left my camera on as he took a device in a black bag and messed with it while I was driving a truck through the most desolate area of this state. I went into a "dumbed-down" trance and he drilled me.
I was driving in a "black-out" mind set and on film I have him asking me where I would hide when the New World Order takes over and comes after me. (I didnt even know about a New World Order back in 1995! Nice to know what they are going to do! I wonder why? Are they faking an invasion from outerspace with a real invasion from hell? What is it that I know that makes me so dangerous to them?) He insisted that I was abducted and that I had "missing time." The video film footage proves otherwise. Bob Ranson was like a UFO tour guide through a UFO JURASSIC PARK. It was as if he was "conjuring-up-the-spirits" on the Ancient Adena Indian lands that the government secretly protects. Since the 1920s "spiritualist days", major highways and airports have been turned down from going in at Liberty. According to union construction workers,
"That Bureau of Land Management (Federal) stopped everything we have ever tried to put through there!"
Hence, many so-called civilian lands are federal in disguise. You can hunt and fish on Farmer Johns Pond but the hillside may have a nuclear missile silo or a manmade saucer bunker in it. The real Groom Lake Area 51s and Cheyenne Mountain NORADS are "Top Secret" and are scattered about. Wake Up America! Or is that too much for your TV set subliminal messaged massaged minds and E.L.F. pickled brains to understand? At times, I thought my nightly "close-encounters" were optical illusions created by holograms/ holographs by the NSA. At other times what appeared before me was definitely etheric or interdimensional. On other occasions what I saw and filmed was without a doubt man-made and a horrible reality. The job became more confusing and I became very paranoid. On many reconnaissance occasions, we actually saw trucks and vans go into different mountainsides and disappear. After seeing this, some of us started thinking the UFOs were man made and the government was in collusion with the aliens. What they were telling me, I didnt believe anymore. The riddle became much more confusing and truth seemed further away. The government psychics were not communicating with the Etherians, as they claimed. The outcome of events was always different from what the psychics predicted. (I have the psychics on audiotapes that Dr. Spaniol recorded in their "Round Table Meetings.") Wherever Bob pointed, there was a UFO. I would have to use binoculars at first. He could see them with the naked eye instantly. It was as if it were all staged for my benefit to get me hooked, trained, initiated or convinced I had supernatural powers. I am still baffled by most of it. (A few times alone with him in his store when he was talking about ghosts, spirits, and hauntings, doors would open or shut on their own - just feet away in plain view with no wind or strings to do tricks. He would just laugh as I made ready to bolt for the doorway and run outside.) Bob had more telekinesis powers than the government paid psychics ever had he was a real live wizard. Years later while reviewing my film footage, I saw that Bob was leading us away. It was kind of like the "Raiders of the Lost Ark". The Nazis at NASA wanted it but the NSA Nazis had it and refused to give it up to the UN New World Order Nazis. I felt like I was surrounded by Coptic Order Luciferians and Fascists from all sides and they were tearing me apart to get this "technology transfer."
They wanted the ultimate "war machine" they wanted one of "Gods Chariots of Fire." With that type of technology they though they could defeat any enemy even the coming of Christ. They can not do it with man-made saucers or with the "Hell Wagons" of Lucifer that they presently are utilizing. That was one of the reasons they were using Judea-Christians for this project. (Christians are their enemy, but the churches do not know it yet and dont want to know it, even when you try to warn them.) When the "naïve human guinea pig" had outlived their usefulness, it was time for "Act Two" of the project - as the "agent" told me. They experiment with hitting the Christian with a barrage of psychic-demonic-cannon attacks. If that does not destroy the "test-rat", they move on to all out microwaving E.L.F. techniques. If they can not force the individual into committing a mass murder, suicide and/or both, they will force them into auto accidents via E.L.F mind control.
If none of this works, they move in at night while the individual sleeps and use the extremely dangerous so-called "non-lethal" weapons to microwave them into a heart attack or dying of cancer. Of course, if none of the above works, they must resort to framing the individual into a Federal prison to finish him/her off or arranged a physically forced suicide at the victims home. I noticed Bob did not issue out hunting permits on his northern lands. I then triangulated silver-looking saucers going into and leaving the area of Painterfork Hollow and Sigmon Ridge. Before he died, he told me that he was with the ones that "had it" and I assumed he meant Spaniol or Anderson "wanted it." This told me that one end of our government knows what it is all about and "has it"; but, the other end of the government "wants it". He also told me some of the UFOs are "etheric" but others are "physical" man-made, but, not reverse engineered as the CIA media had brainwashed the masses. He told me everything from the "Roswell" to the "Alien Autopsy" was all a well-orchestrated reverse-psychology Black Ops/Psy-Ops warfare creation of the "Invisible Government" and the public swallowed it all "hook-line-and-sinker". A few minutes later a NSA agent that I recognized from a previous job showed up with his young blonde (Aryan) bodyguard-dressed as civilians. He tried to get into the back of his office but I directed him to the front. He said, "I havent seen Bob in awhile". I knew it was time to leave by the look on his face and the twirling of a knife by his bodyguard. Bob knew him but acted frozen in fear. I left and pulled my truck from the office over to Bobs store next door and watched what was going on for Bobs safety. Several weeks later the veins in Bobs left arm collapsed. A few weeks later he had a stroke. He was paralyzed on one side, but was supposed to be released from the hospital to go home. The day before the release he received an overdose of blood thinner and he hemorrhaged. His wife who was at his bedside the whole time said two unknown doctors came in and worked on Bob afterwards he took a turn for the worse and died May of 1998. I was home at the time and something spiritual told me exactly what had happened. The "Gate-keeper" died after being attended by doctors his wife was not familiar with. Need I tell you my opinion? Well, a warning to the "jack-boot" Gestapo: a chapter of my book will be called "RANSONS REVENGE." After hundreds of UFOs documented on film and countless tries of getting NASAs "New Energy-Technology Transfer" with real close-encounters, I decided it was time to get to the truth of it all. I made a fake film right on my kitchen table on November 17, 1993. It fooled the film labs around here and NASAs jet-propulsion laboratories. Doctor Spaniol six months later was on his way to the Isaac-Newton Conference in Moscow-again-to give a presentation on NASA making the closest contact ever for a technology transfer of a new energy. (That speech would have put a target on my back for every oil baron in the world to shoot at; so, I had to tell him the truth that the film was fake). I had proved the psychics and their space brother religion to be a lie. I had proven that many of the abduction scenarios are created by both E.L.F. electronic mind control and, also, demonic high-tech occultism-enhanced by E.L.F. Yes, it was a NASA-NSA E.L.F. project but the NWO/ UN/World Federalist CIA was trying to make a World Religion out of it. It was a staged play and I was making the actors stumble and forgetting their lines. It was the CIA-SETI-PSYHICSATANICSCAM !!! Dr. Sutton was going to put a picture of the fake film on the front cover of the NASA in-house magazine. What does all of this tell you? They are seriously anticipating such a similar event and so are the Russians. Hence, the "haves" in this are teasing and feeding the "have-nots" with just enough data and proof as to lead them on. What the NASA Esoteric-Engineers are thinking and what is really going on may be two entirely different things. After all, how are the Rockefellers going to feel about being plunged into bankruptcy and how is it going to affect the rest of the world? (Laurance Rockefeller funds many of the UFO organizations like C.B. Scott Jones Human Potential Foundation and Dr. Steve Greers SCETI. I wonder why?) Before I saved the NASA scientists from embarrassment, they had two different psychics review the "Great Technology Transfer Encounter" film, the fake November 17, 1993 video. One was Anna Himalayon and the other was Lea Stancil from Lewisburg, West Virginia. Lea and her husband, a Federal employee, just moved here from Washington, D.C. I have both psychics on audiotapes interviewed twice, on two separate occasions, concerning what happened on the night of November 17, 1993. After reviewing the video separately at different times, they gave their psychic readings on what the aliens were doing and what happened to me during the abduction. One said that it was a 600-foot ship with 10-foot tall aliens with 60 of them aboard this "mother-ship." According to the other psychic, I was supposedly abducted and the aliens took the camera and were doing the filming themselves. Both psychics made absolutely ridiculous statements about the fake film and both psychics were 100% wrong. (I have the audiotapes recorded by Dr. Spaniol, but was unable to get the video of these psychic sessions.) How were the psychics so incredibly accurate in finding the "mystery-man", Bob Ranson, for the project and repeating everything that took place in my hypnosis sessions with Ph.D. and hypnotist, Holly Forrester Miller, Dean of Psychiatry at the West Virginia College of Graduate Studies. The answer is "surveillance" by the Federal intelligence department that is trying to create a New Religion out of UFO folklore, holograms, E.L.F. mind control techniques, witchcraft and trickery "Electronic-Occultism!"
In fact, Dr. Spaniol and Project Manager Carl Anderson had electronic technicians to go in and repair the sound studio and camera room, which records the sessions in the hypnosis room prior to my "filmed" hypnosis sessions. No wonder their great psychic knew everything I said while under trance. It was transmitted via satellites (NASA/NSA) back to the "company" at Langley, Virginia! (If these guys knew that I was this observant and can act as dumb as an ox, they would have never hired me. A definite profiling mistake of the intelligence community.) After I told them that the Nov.17 film was a fake, the projects NSA agent sent me on a "spirit quest" to rid myself of the demons within. He said the psychics told him, to tell me, to go out back over the mountain on a "spirit-quest" and the aliens will come to me after I was "purified." Previously, he told me it was necessary to dump the others because they had selfish motives. My gut feeling said to forget the "cosmic crusade" and stay inside.
This is another trick that might have cost me my life. My "guardian angel" must have been working overtime because that night, at the very location I was instructed to sit, two cows dropped dead right next to each other and the veterinarian could not figure out what killed them. (Was it an electromagnetic pulse E.L.F. microwave weapon or an ice-bullet? One thing is for sure, it was meant for me; but, the assassin left mad and took it out on the cows!) The sky filled with black unmarked helicopters night after night beaming down searchlights with their infrared ground strobe. This went on day and night - on and off - for years! Strange piper cub and Cessna aircraft circled my house at very low altitudes for hours. (I have all of this on video!) I finally figured it out that they are using the E.L.F mind control transmitters on us. We had countless nights of no rest - strange noises ringing in our ears. We were being pounded day and night by vans and by helicopters with these so-called non-lethal weapons and E.L.F. mind control microwave signals. This electronic butchering continues to this day on and off! The farmers and neighbors out here have seen black unmarked helicopters picking up and dropping off men in military camouflage carrying equipment and weapons heading for my backyard through the woods. E.L.F. can drive you insane or cause a stroke, heart attack or cancer. I had a minor stroke and my wife lost her hearing due to minor stroke. We both dramatically aged in just a few years. What is so prophetic and ironic about all of this is that the Charleston Gazette and other newspapers titled the project over our pictures as the West Virginia State - NASA - M.E.I.R.F - E.L.F Project; and I was being tormented by E.L.F.! What a coincidence? Fire on the Fascists and they will fire back. They will tell the media that it was just a routine DEA, FBI, or ATF "stake-out" based on a rumor or tip and you fired on them first justifying your homicide to the commie-press and "dumb-bell " public! They know how to stroke your egos and pamper your hedonistic comfort-zones. They have hundreds of social-psychologists at their Tavistock and Stanford mass mind control think-tanks that work on lying to you and stripping you of your Constitutional Rights. They have politicians and judges committed to their own secret societies or just plain bought-off. The only way to fight them is by their own games and that includes a revolting public, firing E.L.F. back on them and their families. That is why they stay "hooded!"
They are a secret society, bent on violence against those they hate-just like the KKK - and you cannot trace their families because you never see who they are! But, such social action is just wishful thinking for America is "DOOMED!" After they put your sister in the grave and your brother in prison forever, all they have to do is toss you a six-pack of beer and a football and you will forget all about it. For others, all they have to do is tell them dont worry your going to get a free ticket on the "Rapture Train." It is a toss up, which crowd is the most useless in regard to stopping this ongoing tyranny. Thus, it is "business as-usual" and "the beat-goes-on!" My wife and I were exhausted and my dogs were constantly fighting each other in 1995 and 1996. Our families and neighbors turned against us for no reason. Our lives went into a "black-hole" and the mountain we lived on became the Abyss of Appolyon - The Destroyer. The ghostly aliens continued to appear and I would speak to them in a strange language, that the New Agers call Enochian. The white triangle craft with rounded corners continued to show up and park just outside my bedroom window 3 to 4 a.m. every morning. The choppers circled the house day and night.
(Dr. Spaniol said it was only the DEA doing routine "pot-plant" searches. In the middle of the winter? Snow Pot? The neighbors were calling the FAA, FCC and FBI because the chaos was disturbing their television reception and home appliances.) In the book "Kundalini Tales" by Richard Sauder about E.L.F. mind control devices, you can see a variety of United States patents from the Patent Office electronic schematics and everything else. On page 16 of this book, you will find a picture of astronauts eating breakfast with a few NASA engineers. The unidentified scientist second from the right was my boss on the West Virginia State College NASA E.L.F. Project Technical Officer of Goddard Space Flight Center, Ph.D., Dr. John Sutton.
You will see the very same man in the videos I filmed at the college and the videos Dr. Craig Spaniol filmed at the Tesla Society and Issac Newton conferences in the U.S. and in the U.S.S.R. You would also hear the same mans voice on audiotapes with Dr. Spaniol and the psychics talking about the UFOs with their "Aviary Round Table" staff members. (See my article, "Riders on the Storm.") The spider web of Masonry and its great influence on NASA and the "intelligence agencies" is also pointed out in the "Kundalini Tales." Your mind and your life are nothing to these Fascist Luciferians. We are all destined to be "test-rats" in their world of "Electronic-Witchcraft!" I had to forget my career and ride with my wife on her job giving seminars to professionals for the past several years. At one conference, after helping her set up everything in the country club, I rested out in the car as she gave a seminar. An extremely unusual thought process entered my mind. It awakened me and was very powerful. I suddenly got these mad thoughts of anger and almost uncontrollable rage.
I went inside to the dining hall to get an aspirin. My head was about to explode. I went down into the basement where the locker room was at and the thoughts stopped. I went back upstairs and remembered that out in the parking lot, a white van had parked next to us. It was there for three hours. The occupants never got out! They saw me starring at them from the plate glass door of the country club, and then they quickly drove away. I caught them on several other occasions around us or behind us whenever we wrecked. There is no doubt in my mind about who is responsible for the insane postal shootings, the recent school shootings, and the hazing gangs of guys chasing and raping girls on beaches several years ago. This E.L.F. mind control is to create chaos in order for the populace to willingly disarm themselves for the future New World Order takeover-which includes the genocide of the majority of the worlds population. Historically and even in recent years just before a mass killing of millions of one ethnic group by another, the victims are ordered disarmed by the U.N. We also lost the Korean and Vietnam wars; because, every U.N. leader had as an U.N. advisor "Under-Secretary for Security and Political Affairs" assigned to him that was Russian and/or communist which was noted in an article on the web: "The Truth" by Lt.Col. Bud Farrell, USAF, rets. The very people that want to save nature will destroy nature with HAARP, ELF, GWEN and other weapons of mass destruction. These projects are not about saving nature. They are about saving Satan in both a 3-D earthly battle and an inter-dimensional cosmic battle. Everything else is just double-speak and conjecture as far as the power-elite occultists are concerned. The more sincere environmentalist evolutionistatheists will soon witness in the near future things that will drive them out of their materialist narrow minds. History on occasion repeats itself and Genesis 6:1 and 11: 1-9 is about to repeat itself again. The high-tech Tower of Babel is under construction again. West Virginia University and Fairmont State College had a NASA E.L.F. project also and sent representatives to J.P.L. (Jet Propulsion Laboratory ) and they had another group that was sent to Shasta Mountain in California. The UFO group was directly linked to Barb Marx Hubbards U.S. Army 1st Earth Battalion. This group is led by the California Church of Sets satanic highest priest, Lt. Col. Mike Aquino and Lt. Col. Jim Channon. Contact results were given to political "power-elite" like Maurice Strong, and Ex-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev who are also in touch with the Ascended Masters.
At that time Gorby resided at Camp Presidio camp of the president - San Francisco, California, with Satanists Aquino and Channon of the "New Ninja Night Warrior Special Forces." This base was a spy language-training center. Remember the "Ascended Masters" speak "Enochian?"
(See my article on how they plan on taking over and the real connections in "THE HIDDEN EVIL AGENDA"- the 4th Reich totalitarian police-state dictatorship of the filthy high-tech Fascist Masonic rich.) This is not even a fraction of my story. But, I will let it rest on this. I wish for everyone that reads this to visit the following article: THE GEORGIA GUIDE STONES.
Now go find a book called "THE AGE OF CATACLYSM", written by Alfred Webre and Phillip Liss. This book calls for everything that the Georgia Guide Stones calls for eliminating the Congress and U.S. Constitution and the world population for a New World Order and a Luciferian One World Religion. This book was promoted by THE WORLD FEDERALIST ASSOCIATION and WORLD FUTURIST SOCIETY and the psychics told them to tell the world leaders what to do and the Ascended Masters told the psychics what to tell the leaders.
Who is really giving orders to whom? This book said on page 196 that this process of "cleansing" the world of the unfit and the birth of a new age will begin after RUSSIA turns capitalist and the Berlin Wall comes down. How prophetic? Barb Marx Hubbard suggested the same things recently at one of those $5,000 plate dinners for Globalism. She was also the leader of the World Federalist Society. At these World meetings, the elite stuff their faces with gourmet dinners and talk about the need for us poor slobs to carry food-rationing cards. The hypocrisy and double-speak of the New Liberalism is right out of Hitlers Mein Kampf! The creator of the Church of Scientology, Dianetics and Silva Mind Control, L.Ron Hubbard, was in a government sponsored esoteric experiment. During WWII, Satanist Aliester Crowley, Hubbard, and Parsons corresponded with Nazi Scientist, Wilhelm Reich, (Occult-UFO-Sex-Magician) in an effort to open another dimension (a window) for the Ascended Masters to come into our dimension and breed with women as in Genesis 6:1. What is strange is that these experiments took place in the western deserts prior to the atomic bomb blasts.
They were, also, connected to both the Philadelphia Experiment and the Montauk Project. NASA was created and ran by the German Fascists and Black Arts Occultists brought over here in Project "Paper Clip." (Dr. Spaniol, who has worked on Darpa, non-lethal weapons, Haarp, ELF weather controls, and on the first nuclear subs, told me this in an all night lecture.)
Read the books "The Gods Of The Lodge" by Mike Haupt, or "The Dark Side of Freemasonry" by Ed Decker, or "Freemasonry The Invisible Cult in Our Midst", by Jack Harris.
Read the book "Hitlers Cross" by Erwin Lutzer and you will see what is happening in America today is exactly what was happening in Germany in the 20s and 30s. The New Christianity will once again be Hitlers version of it, "cruel and intrepid."
Read the book "The Scientist" by John C. Lilly, a testimonial of a CIA volunteer contacting aliens through drugs and mental telepathy. The Black Arts Occultists involved state that Christianity has destroyed the environment of the earth. They have forgotten most of Africa is paganistic or Muslim, most of Asia is Buddhist, Hindu, or atheist communist and they are ecological disaster zones. Post-Christian Europe and the United States are in very good shape compared to the non-Christian countries; but, the hate for the Jews and the real Christians are an outstanding spiritual trait of all Anti-Christ political and religious movements. The whole New World Order and One Religion theme is based on this as their bottom line. It is in all of their books written by all of their favorite authors and futurist visionaries.
Read "The Keys of Enoch" by J.J. Hurtak and the Academy Of Future Science. It is the hard cover New Age Bible to eliminate all undesirables and bring in the Ascended Masters on a Mothership. U.S. - the new Atlantis - is the major landing zone. Wonder why six giant Masonic airports are being built geometrically across the U.S.?
Read "The Messiah and The Second Coming" by John Davis and Naomi Rice. They state that the goals of the Federalists, United Nations, and the Future World Society are all the same as Masonry and the New Age Movement. When achieved, Jesus comes back to us with a fleet of flying saucers - UFOs.
(I have an extremely rare book written in 1890 for the Masonic Lodge by DK a demon with a variety of old Masonic and New Age writings - called "Eye-Witness to a Crucifixion." The almost extinct book says almost the same things as "The Messiah and The Second Coming." They made one mistake. In one book, Jesus lived 237 years and ascended from the top of the Great Pyramid. In the other book, Jesus faked the crucifixion and died 6 months later of grief because of the way things turned out for his ministry. If possible, the Masonic writer now dead - would probably like to get his hands on that New Age writer for dropping the torch!)
Finally read the book "Mount Shasta Californias Mystic Mountain" by Emile A. Frank, a UFO cult leader and Barb Hubbard fan. She does a good job in proving that the UFOs and E.Ts are from the inner earth not outerspace. She also clarifies that they are spiritual not physical beings. She demonstrates that all most Occultic organizations are Masonic and Luciferian. She emphasizes in several areas that in order for Elizabeth Clare Prophets, Ruth Montgomerys and her New World Order/New Age to come about with a materialization of the Atlantian Ascended Masters the Christians and Constitutionalists must be "cleansed from the earth" - mass genocide. See pages 116 and 128 those are only two examples of this resurgence of the new Hitler-type crystal-jingling coffee shop tie-die Fascists.
So, here it is. Psychics (witches) telling world leaders to unite and exterminate the masses and enslave the survivors for a super high-tech occultic Luciferian Age. An endless network of paganists, masons, witches and occultists in an alliance with Nazis hired by the CIA in Project Paper Clip 50 years ago. A secret government sworn by oath to Satan itself to enslave the earth and destroy all those that do not worship him. Their goal is to bring the King of the Ascended Masters to Earth "in the physical" for all to see.
That is why they called the CSETI project "Falling Star!"
The Alien Agenda is the same as the Ascended Master Agenda. The Ascended Master Agenda is the same as the Psychics Agenda. The Psychics Agenda is the same as the World Federalist Agenda. The World Federalist Agenda is the same as the United Nations Agenda. The United Nations Agenda is the same as the Fema Agenda. The Fema Agenda is the same as The New Constitution of the United States Agenda.
The Alien Agenda is the same as the Ascended Master Agenda.
The Ascended Master Agenda is the same as the Psychics Agenda.
The Psychics Agenda is the same as the World Federalist Agenda.
The World Federalist Agenda is the same as the United Nations Agenda.
The United Nations Agenda is the same as the Fema Agenda.
The Fema Agenda is the same as The New Constitution of the United States Agenda.
Through massive electronic networking and artificial intelligence the mind frequency and soul-spirit harmonics will be altered to allow a mass invasion of demonic walk-ins. The world will explode with chaos and madness. Remember that the Masonic slogan is "Ordo Ab Chao" out of chaos comes order and out of the ashes of the Phoenix, the Serpent rises to power. The aliens are the archangels of hell. The world leaders are taking orders from witches and demons from Hell! This is exactly what is in the book of Revelations of the Bible. Even the description of the evil spirits that bring the United Nations to the Battle of Armageddon appearing as frogs or alien reptoids is in Revelations 16:12-14 of the Bible. The first wave of an alien invasion is out of hell. The second wave of strange balls of fire and lights coming down in flashes of lightning east to west is out of Heaven do not be deceived! When the skies light up with an alien invasion that will be Satan and 1/3 of the ex-archangels of heaven falling (materializing) on earth. They will meet with the Illuminati Brotherhood for a Harmonic Convergence. The man-made police state hovercraft will come out of their secret underground bunkers and will hunt the majority of you down with these so-called non-lethal microwave weapons.
The television may call it the Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the Rapture or something to that equivalent. Whether it is Gods Tribulation Period or just another man-made Armageddon instigated by cruel lying utopianists, take my advice: do not go outside and try to .. "Catch A Falling Star!"
Return to New World Order
Return to The Psychic Universe
Return to Vida en Nuestra Galaxia
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
