# Top-Secret Military Underground Facilities - Excerpt from ALIEN MAGIC

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_underground01d.htm

by William H. Hamilton III
from Watcher Website
One of the earliest American underground facilities was built at Raven Rock in Pennsylvania.
The military refer to it as "Site R." Sounds like "Section D." Raven Rock was picked because it is made of greenstone, a type of granite that is the fourth hardest rock on earth. Construction started in 1950, and engineers had completed a series of tunnels and a three-story building by 1953.
Two more three-story buildings were completed by 1963. The complex lies 650 feet beneath the 1,529-foot-high summit of Raven Rock and can be entered through four portals.
The mountain has everything needed to survive a catastrophe:
cars some of the best dining in the Army chemical suits a fitness center a medical facility a barbershop legal services a chapel designated smoking areas a convenience store six 1,000 kilowatt generators 35 miles of cable on 180 telephone poles
cars
some of the best dining in the Army
chemical suits
a fitness center
a medical facility
a barbershop
legal services
a chapel
designated smoking areas
a convenience store
six 1,000 kilowatt generators
35 miles of cable on 180 telephone poles
Remember, this is one of the early underground sites, and probably does not compare with some of the new underground cities that have been constructed in more recent years. One of the first of nearly 100 Federal Relocation Centers was built in rural Virginia's Mount Weather. It took years to complete, but when complete resembled a city more than an emergency installation.
Mount Weather was equipped with such amenities as private apartments and dormitories, streets and sidewalks, cafeterias and hospitals, a water purification system, power plant, and general office buildings.
The site includes a small lake fed by fresh water from underground springs. It even has its own mass transit system--small electric cars that run on rechargeable batteries and make regular shuttle runs throughout the city. As recently as 1992, the papers reported the existence of a Cold War secret, the government had built a $14 million underground bunker in West Virginia and maintained it for more than three decades for Congress to use in the event of a nuclear attack.
The hideaway Capitol was built under the fashionable Greenbrier resort in White Sulphur Springs, about 250 miles from Washington.
Its location was known only to a relative handful of the nation's highest- ranking officials. From 1958 on, the very existence of this facility was a closely guarded secret. Very few in Congress or the executive branch knew of the program. The rumors that an underground city exists under the Enchantment Resort in Boynton Canyon in Sedona, Arizona may not be so far fetched after all.
Eggs cannot be put in one basket. The Greenbrier bunker has living quarters and work space for 800 people as well as separate meeting halls for the House and Senate. We are always willing to release more about the other side's secrets than our own. We find that the Kremlin and other buildings in Moscow are still linked by underground rail tunnels to an area about six miles outside the city center called Ramenki, site of a vast subterranean bunker designed for the country's leaders and their families.
It was described as an underground city about 500 acres in size, built at several levels from 230 feet to 395 feet. This bunker could shelter as many as 120,000 people! That is the size of a moderate American city. According to the Napa Sentinel, a secret underground installation is under construction near the Oakville Grade in Napa County, California, and is being used by the Government for direct satellite communication, the Continuity of Government (COG) program in case of nuclear attack or other disasters, and secure communication links with the outside world in case of disaster.
Mysterious helicopter flights have been seen going into and out of the area. Supposedly, the secret government site is replacing other installations and combining them into one underground center. Not all underground sites are shelters.
The Yucca Mountain Site Characterization Project took a first step in November, 1993 when it started construction on the entrance pad for its Exploratory Studies Facility (ESF). This pad is the launching point for 14 miles of tunnels that will be drilled directly under Yucca Mountain. The tunnels will measure 24-30 feet in diameter for some and 16-18 feet in diameter for others.
This project will eventually cover some 70 acres of surface and underground facilities. This DOE project will contain alcoves for experiments located along the tunnels. Skeptics have expressed doubts about the existence of extensive underground tunneling and cavitation. They always ask, "Where is all the dirt?" This method of asking a question to disprove an allegation is misleading and faulty logic at best. Skeptics favorite question about the alien presence is "Why don't they land on the White House Lawn?"
Of course, the rejoinder should be "Keep off the Grass signs prevent them." One of the new methods of tunneling that have been under study is "nuclear tunnel boring." U.S. Patent No. 3,693,731 dated Sept. 26, 1972 describes a method and apparatus for tunneling by melting.
It says,
"a machine and method for drilling bore holes and tunnels by melting in which a housing is provided for supporting a heat source and a heated end portion and in which the necessary melting heat is delivered to the walls of the end portion at a rate sufficient to melt rock and during operation of which the molten material may be disposed adjacent the boring zone in cracks in the rock and as a vitreous wall lining of the tunnel so formed. The heat source can be electrical or nuclear, but for deep drilling is preferably a nuclear reactor."
"a machine and method for drilling bore holes and tunnels by melting in which a housing is provided for supporting a heat source and a heated end portion and in which the necessary melting heat is delivered to the walls of the end portion at a rate sufficient to melt rock and during operation of which the molten material may be disposed adjacent the boring zone in cracks in the rock and as a vitreous wall lining of the tunnel so formed.
The heat source can be electrical or nuclear, but for deep drilling is preferably a nuclear reactor."
The melted rock is forced into cracks wherein heat is given up to the crack surfaces and freezes as a glass at some distance from the penetrator.
This amazing boring device is capable of drilling at depths totally inaccessible with previous drilling techniques, even, according to the patent claims, down to 30,000 meters. The nuclear tunnel boring machines were invented by scientists and engineers at Los Alamos.
They called their new machine, the "Subterrene."
In 1975, a cost comparison was done between the Subterrene and other tunneling methods by A. A. Mathews, Inc. This report reveals that the initial experiments utilizing this technology were done in the early 1960s.
This study reveals that the Subterrene performs its job rapidly and economically. The report states that the economy comes from "the formation of a glass lining bonded to the ground and capable of providing initial and final ground support without the delay and cost of separate installations.
The use of a nuclear reactor and heat pipes to provide power for kerf penetration within the tunneling machine itself contributes to the overall economy of the system and is considered exclusively in this study.
Nuclear power is not, however, a requirement for Subterrene tunneling. In fact a Los Alamos symposium held in Atlantic City in 1986 proposed the construction of a Subselene for tunnel melting for high-speed lunar subsurface transportation tunnels. There are numerous witnesses who speak about a subterranean highway through America just like our own Interstate highway system, except its underground. It seems this underground highway uses trucks, cars, and buses driven by electric motors. (You wouldn't want gasoline fumes polluting tunnels.) They also mention another style of transport for freight and passengers that are linked together in a worldwide network called the "Sub-Global System." It has checkpoints at each country entry. There are shuttle tubes that "shoot" the trains at incredible speed using a maglev and vacuum method. They travel in excess of the speed of sound. Engineers Robert Salter and Frank P. Davidson of MIT have both discussed and given papers on the Planetran concept for moving people rapidly underground.
Salter describes the Planetran as an ultraspeed, electromagnetically propelled and levitated transportation system of the future. Such a system could carry passengers across the United States in less than an hour in a quiet, economical, fuel-conservative, and nonpolluting manner.
Planetran would require a tunnel over 2,500 miles in length, perhaps assembled from 100 25-mile long segments. Skeptics have scoffed at claims that 100-mile long tunnels ran from one military operations area to another. Yet, engineers have planned for tunnels to span the nation. Of course, skeptics are somewhat deficient in imagination when it comes to accomplishments.
There were skeptics that never believed we would reach the moon, and certainly not by rocket. Skeptics do not believe in alien visitations. It is even more difficult for them to accept the idea that aliens have inhabited the earth for a long time and like to live underground and out of sight. Huge structures discovered in close-up photos of lunar features indicate that ancient alien artifacts have graced the surface of our satellite. It is only a small step for aliens to have come to earth and built habitats. We cannot prove that aliens or alien technology exists in secret underground facilities constructed by the government. We have not been able to prove the existence of Section D.
There are an increasing number of abductees who report being taken to underground bases. Some of these abductees have described seeing things that really exist in documented underground facilities. Perhaps ancient underground facilities will eventually reveal the truth.
The magic and mystery of these dark places continues. Note: These underground systems do exist and span the globe. It is named T.A.U.S.S. (Trans America Underground Subway System). See below.............Col. Robert Salter, of the RAND Corporation, has suggested building a subway from New York to Los Angeles magnetically levitated above the tracks. The trains would zip through the evacuated tunnels at speeds faster than an SST, crossing the country in less than one hour.
Building such a train presents no special technological problems, but the cost of tunneling from coast to coast would. To be economically feasible, engineers would have to develop a new way to dig.
The federal government's Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, in New Mexico, however, may have an answer to this challenge. Called the Subterrene, the Los Alamos machine looks like a vicious giant mole. The beauty of the Subterrene is that, as it burrows through the rock hundreds of feet below the surface, it heats whatever stone it encounters into molten rock, or magma, which cools after the Subterrene has moved on. The result is a tunnel with a smooth, glazed lining.
For power, the Subterrene can use a built-in miniature nuclear engine or even a conventional power plant.
NOTE: I have seen this machine, and watched it in action. Normal rate of speed is approximately six and one/half miles per hour depending on Type of rock, sand etc.................Col.
Go Back
