# Toward the Unknown Region

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/crystal_tablet/tsrl22.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 22
Toward the Unknown Region
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c) Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version
by TS permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
Darest thou now, O soul, Walk out with me toward the unknown region, Where neither ground is for the feet nor any path to follow? - Walt Whitman Where no terrestrial dreams had trod My vision entered undismayed, And Life her hidden realms displayed To me as to a curious god ... - Clark Ashton Smith Let's go! - Paul Kantner, Captain, Jefferson Starship 22A. "The Cosmic Connection" by Carl Sagan. NY: Dell Publishing Company #3301, 1973. (TS-3)
MA: "Dr. Sagan is Professor of Astronomy & Space Studies and Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell University. In this collection of essays he examines mankind's prospects for a space- oriented culture, touching upon everything from intelligent dolphins to scenarios for communication with extra-terrestrials. While adhering to high standards of scientific precision, the book is as conversational as the writings of Asimov. Hence it is a pleasant introduction to 'space- consciousness'.
Also highly recommended is Sagan's "Cosmos" (NY: Random House, 1980), the book version of the PBS television series "Cosmos". And catch that series if you can. Sagan's a little rough on Pythagoras, who he feels gave science a bum steer in the direction of intuition & mysticism instead of Aristotelian 'scientific method'. Shows what old turtle-neck knows about Pythagoras - and Aristotle! But I'll forgive him this lapse, because the other episodes of the series - and his genuine love for space/ecology - are so admirable." 22B. "Impossible Possibilities" by Louis Pauwels and Jacques Bergier. NY: Stein & Day, 1971. (TS-3)
MA: "Again, from that dynamic duo who brought you #4B and #17B, a collection of data concerning non-Earthbound phenomena of a similar non-nature. Chapters on astronomical techniques, Soviet space research, extra-terrestrial intelligence, electronic brains, matter/ antimatter, genetic research & engineering, quasars, 'black holes', and the artificial creation of life." 22C. "Worlds-Antiworlds: Antimatter in Cosmology" by Hannes Alfven. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman & Co., 1966. (TS-4)
MA: "Alfven is a Nobel Prize recipient; member of the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm; and Professor of Physics at the University of California, San Diego. In this 100-page book he explains the origin of the Universe through the fission of plasma into primal matter and antimatter. Chapters deal with the actual construction of galaxies & star systems, the errors in the 'steady-state' and 'Big Bang' theories, the physics of matter/ antimatter and plasma particles, the development of the metagalaxy, and the effects of relativity. In short: How the Universe really works. [See also my review of #22C, 'Genesis II' in the "Cloven Hoof", reprinted as Appendix 57 in #6N.]" 22D. "Supernature" by Lyall Watson. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1978. (TS-3)
MA: "If magic involves the use of principles for which there are not yet scientific laws, then this book [by the author of #17C] is a guide to the Twilight Zone between magic and science. Watson's goal is to force science to admit that it still cannot account for everything in a wide variety of fields; hence it should not shy away from unorthodox theories and hypotheses. Specific chapters cover cosmic laws & their impact upon Earthly organisms, life fields, brain-wave research, biophysics, PK, ESP, witchcraft, time measurement, and precognition. An extensive and sophisticated bibliography is appended for those interested in detailed investigations into specific areas." 22E. "The Key to the Universe" by Nigel Calder. NY: Penguin Books #005065.5, 1977. (TS-3)
MA: "This is the book-version of the BBC television documentary of the same name. Chapters 1-4 explore recent breakthroughs in particle physics (quarks, neutrinos, muons, etc.), and chapters 5-6 analyze and speculate upon the impact of these discoveries on our scientific understanding of cosmic forces. Calder and his sources are essentially committed to Einsteinian partial relativity and the 'Big Bang' theory of Universal creation, so you may find it helpful to assess the implications of chapters 1-4 in light of #22C." 22F. "Intelligent Life in the Universe" by Carl Sagan and I.S. Shklovskii. San Francisco: Holden Day, Inc., 1966. (TS-4)
MA: "Long before Sagan (#22A) was invited to assemble the "Cosmos" documentary series, he was intrigued by the subject of this book. This is a collaboration between him and one of the most eminent astronomers of the Sternberg Astronomical Institute, Soviet Academy of Sciences, Moscow. The presentation is a synthesis of physics, biology, chemistry, and cosmology, and the abundance of technical data may be confusing to the layman. For the serious investigator, however, the same feature is a welcome change from the unsupported speculations of many pseudoscientific works on the same subject." 22G. "Worlds Beyond: A Report on the Search for Life in Space" by Ian Ridpath. NY: Harper & Row #TD251, 1967. (TS-3)
MA: "Still the most comprehensive summary of scientific endeavors in this field. Well-written and lavishly illustrated with photos and diagrams. Considerable detail concerning projects such as Ozma, SETI/CETI, Blue Book, Orion, and Cyclops. The tone of the book is conservative. There is no irresponsible speculation, and the data can be relied upon." 22H. "Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence: The First Encounter" by James L. Christian (Ed.). Buffalo: Prometheus Books, 1976. (TS-3)
MA: "A social science counterpart to #22F, this book consists of a series of speculative essays by distinguished science-fiction writers, scientists, philosophers, and [of course!] Mr. Spock. A pleasant, provocative, and informative anthology on the subject." 22I. "Space Shuttle" by the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1976. (TS-3)
MA: "Much has been written about the space shuttle program. This is NASA's official booklet on the subject and is a clean, clear, uncluttered presentation for the reader seeking the basic facts." 22J. "Enterprise" by Jerry Grey. NY: William Morrow, 1979. (TS-3)
MA: "This is an excellent summary of the space shuttle program and its implications for research, colonization, etc. by the U.S. Vice-President of the International Astronautical Federation & Administrator of Public Policy for the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Comments Isaac Asimov: 'This book is the story of the real beginning of the space age, how it came about, and what it will lead to. It is the story of real people who made dreams come true and are utterly revolutionizing space flight - and humanity - in doing so. And it is told by someone who has lived the story.'" 22K. "Space Settlements: A Design Study" by Richard D. Johnson and Charles Holbrow (Eds.). Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1977. (TS-3)
MA: "Popular books such as Gerard O'Neill's "The High Frontier" have made space colonization a fad and the victim of a good deal of emotional journalism. This NASA study - a companion volume to #22I - is a refreshingly practical analysis. Appropriate technical data are included." 22L. "The Cycles of Heaven: Cosmic Forces and What They are Doing to You" by Guy L. Playfair and Scott Hill. NY: St. Martin's Press, 1978. (TS-3)
MA: "If #22D sparks your curiosity, this is a good follow-up book on the general subject of force-field influences upon the human body and consciousness: radiation, sound & light waves, gravitational fields, etc. Compare #22L's discussion of the human 'energy body' with the theories set forth in #19I/J." 22M. "Moon Madness" by E.L. Abel. Greenwich, Conn.: Fawcett Publications #0- 449-13697-3, 1976. (TS-3)
MA: "This is one of the more comprehensive of a number of 'lightweight, semi- scientific' books discussing the Moon's various influences - from mythological to physiological - on the human organism. Included are chapters/sections on time, blood, sex, women, maternity, plants, diseases, mental illness (including lycanthropy), suicide, lunambulism, electricity, and magnetism." 22N. "The Dark Side" by Michael A. Aquino. San Francisco: Temple of Set, 1977 etc. (TS-5)
MA: "An epic set in the Andromeda Galaxy and featuring the characters of the film "Star Wars". An early version of one section ('Secret of Sith') appeared in "Famous Monsters of Filmland" #148. An essay on various magical themes inspired by the original motion picture but strictly disconnected from "The Empire Strikes Back" and/or "Return of the Jedi". Availability of #22N, which is periodically torn apart, enhanced, and expanded, will be announced in the "Scroll". Helpful preparatory reading: Everything else on this reading list [especially items marked TS-5]." 22O. "Pioneering the Space Frontier" by the National Commission on Space. NY: Bantam Books #0-553-34314-9, 1986. (TS-3)
MA: "In format this is a companion volume to #22I & #22K, but in content it is an assessment of the U.S. space program at present and an argument for its expansion into a trans-orbital and planetary emphasis. NASA's reliance upon the space shuttle, coupled with increasing military interest in and possible influence over the shuttle program as a component of SDI research has put more distant space-exploration efforts at a serious disadvantage: exploration of the Moon, the planets, interplanetary probes, etc.
The National Commission on Space is a blue-ribbon panel of 15 space-exploration enthusiasts. This book is a good 'state-of-the-art' assessment which tells the reader what is and would be possible if the U.S. and other nations would resolve to move space- exploration forward. Whether the present fixation on Earth-orbital programs will yield to this more ambitious prospectus is unclear at this time."
