# Turkish Intelligence: Al-Qaeda a U.S. Covert Operation

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/sociopol_binladen07.htm

by Kurt Nimmo
August 15 2005 from PrisonPlanet Website
Consider the following, published in Zaman, the fifth largest newspaper in Turkey:
Amid the smoke from the fortuitous fire [i.e., the capture of Louai Sakra, said to be the al-CIA-duh regional boss in Turkey] emerged the possibility that al-Qaeda may not be, strictly speaking, an organization but an element of an intelligence agency operation. Turkish intelligence specialists agree that there is no such organization as al-Qaeda. Rather, Al-Qaeda is the name of a secret service operation. The concept fighting terror is the background of the low-intensity-warfare conducted in the mono-polar world order. The subject of this strategy of tension is named as al-Qaeda.
Amid the smoke from the fortuitous fire [i.e., the capture of Louai Sakra, said to be the al-CIA-duh regional boss in Turkey] emerged the possibility that al-Qaeda may not be, strictly speaking, an organization but an element of an intelligence agency operation. Turkish intelligence specialists agree that there is no such organization as al-Qaeda.
Rather, Al-Qaeda is the name of a secret service operation. The concept fighting terror is the background of the low-intensity-warfare conducted in the mono-polar world order. The subject of this strategy of tension is named as al-Qaeda.
Note the use of the phrase strategy of tension, an obvious reference to Gladio, the state-sponsored terrorist operation in Italy (basically a series of fascist false flag operations, or low intensity warfare, blamed on leftists). It is interesting that Turkish intelligence would admit that the neocon war against terrorism is an entirely artificial construct. Moreover, according to Turkish intelligence,
Sakra has been sought by the secret services since 2000. The US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) interrogated him twice before. Following the interrogation CIA offered him employment. He also received a large sum of money by CIA. However the CIA eventually lost contact with him.
It is curious how alleged key people in the al-CIA-duh network end up working for the CIA and other intelligence agencies. For instance,
Abdurahman Khadr, who (according to ABC News Online) lived side-by-side with Osama bin Laden, was a double agent, sent to spy on Al Qaeda fighters at Guantanamo Bay and in Bosnia. Ali Mohamed, a former U.S. Army sergeant who trained Osama bin Ladens bodyguards and helped plan the 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Kenya, worked for the FBI (Mohamed, obviously with the grace of the feds, brought Ayman al-Zawahiri to San Francisco on a covert fund-raising mission), according to the San Francisco Chronicle. Hamid Reza Zakeri claimed (during the trial of Abdelghani Mzoudi, a Moroccan accused of helping the nine eleven hijackers) that Irans secret service had contacts with Osama bin Ladens al Qaeda network ahead of the September 11 attacks, according to Reuters. It just so happens Zakeri claims the CIA owes him $1.2 for services rendered as a double agent. Mullah Krekar, the leader of Ansar al-Islam, told al-Hayat newspaper in 2003 he had a meeting with a CIA representative and someone from the American army in the town of Sulaymaniya (Iraqi Kurdistan) at the end of 2000. They asked us to collaborate with them, an offer Krekar said he refused. Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, aka Abu Omar, a dangerous terrorist who once plotted to kill the Egyptian foreign minister, according to the Chicago Tribune, was such a valued CIA asset it was deemed necessary to kidnap him off the streets of Milan after he had second thoughts about his work. And then there was Muhammad Naeem Noor Khanm, the al-Qaeda computer engineer who became part of a sting operation organized by the CIA, according to the Washington Post.
Abdurahman Khadr, who (according to ABC News Online) lived side-by-side with Osama bin Laden, was a double agent, sent to spy on Al Qaeda fighters at Guantanamo Bay and in Bosnia.
Ali Mohamed, a former U.S. Army sergeant who trained Osama bin Ladens bodyguards and helped plan the 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Kenya, worked for the FBI (Mohamed, obviously with the grace of the feds, brought Ayman al-Zawahiri to San Francisco on a covert fund-raising mission), according to the San Francisco Chronicle.
Hamid Reza Zakeri claimed (during the trial of Abdelghani Mzoudi, a Moroccan accused of helping the nine eleven hijackers) that Irans secret service had contacts with Osama bin Ladens al Qaeda network ahead of the September 11 attacks, according to Reuters. It just so happens Zakeri claims the CIA owes him $1.2 for services rendered as a double agent.
Mullah Krekar, the leader of Ansar al-Islam, told al-Hayat newspaper in 2003 he had a meeting with a CIA representative and someone from the American army in the town of Sulaymaniya (Iraqi Kurdistan) at the end of 2000. They asked us to collaborate with them, an offer Krekar said he refused.
Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, aka Abu Omar, a dangerous terrorist who once plotted to kill the Egyptian foreign minister, according to the Chicago Tribune, was such a valued CIA asset it was deemed necessary to kidnap him off the streets of Milan after he had second thoughts about his work.
And then there was Muhammad Naeem Noor Khanm, the al-Qaeda computer engineer who became part of a sting operation organized by the CIA, according to the Washington Post.
Of course, all of this CIA funny business is coincidental.
Remember, the CIA is ineffectual, even if it did create Islamic terrorism - the agency actually boasts about this, says the Afghan Mujahideen (aka al-Qaeda) was its most successful operation to date - and it was intelligence failures" that caused nine eleven.
Return to Osama Bin Laden
Return to Temas / Sociopolitica
