# Vampirism and Lycanthropy

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/crystal_tablet/tsrl08.htm

Temple of Set Reading List: Category 8
Vampirism and Lycanthropy
Reprinted from: "The Crystal Tablet of Set" (c) Temple of Set 1989 CE Weirdbase file version
by TS permission by Michael A. Aquino, Ipsissimus VI* Temple of Set
This category is important for much the same reason as #7: The legends of the vampire and the werewolf reveal suppressed characteristics of the human soul which the magician may recognize, control - and occasionally avoid when sensing them to obsess the personalities of immature or hysterical humans. It is important to note that the literature in this category is selected not for its story value, but for its in-depth treatment of these phenomena.
Here may be found some of the most ancient and essential instincts and intelligent dispositions of the soul - qualities among the first to be challenged and ostracized by profane society because of its brutish fear of such godlike prerogatives. Because of the superstitious taboo which has lain over them for so many centuries, it is widely assumed by profane society that vampirism and lycanthropy are mere myths, playthings for monster- movies.
They are not. 8A. "The Vampire Papers" by Bernhardt J. Hurwood (Original title: "Terror by Night", later released as "The Monstrous Undead"). NY: Pinnacle Books #523- 00975-5, 1976. (TS-3)
MA: "Unlike the werewolf or vampire sections of most occult anthologies, this book focuses directly on the sexual and psychopathic bases of both archetypes. Other sections dealing with necrophilia, cannibalism, blood rituals, and premature burial have made this one of the books least likely to be kept in stock at your neighborhood bookstore.
A short but informative bibliography is appended. [See also #8I.] Books dealing exclusively with subjects such as necrophilia [sample title: "The Love of the Dead"(!)] were evaluated for this reading list but rejected as being mere attempts to pander to degenerate and morbid tastes. #8A relates such themes to the more significant precepts addressed by this reading list category." 8B. "The Annotated Dracula" by Leonard Wolf. NY: Clarkson N. Potter, 1975 (paperback edition also produced). (TS-3)
MA: "A richly-annotated facsimile publication of the first edition of the classic by Bram Stoker. This edition includes descriptions and explanations of the many factual events and references included in the novel. Complete with maps, photographs, and a series of magnificent illustrations by Saetty. [Historical note: A review of this book was struck from the Church of Satan newsletter because of a clash between Anton LaVey and Wolf over the length of a 'Satanic pregnancy' (Wolf = 13 months, LaVey = 9 months) and also because of a parting of ways between LaVey and Saetty some years back.] Wolf is also author of #8D." 8C.
"The Vampire" by Ornella Volta. NY: Award Books #A807S-MAC, 1962. (TS-4)
MA: "Only slightly less gory than #8A, this book explores various psychological implications of vampirism and proceeds to case studies. Again the nature of its contents makes it unlikely that this book will be easily located." 8D. "A Dream of Dracula: In Search of the Living Dead" by Leonard Wolf. NY: Popular Library #445-00159-125, 1972. (TS-4)
MA: "This is a painstaking, if somewhat rambling and Freudian study of the vampire in contemporary society, with many references to historic incidents. Wolf is author of #8B and a San Francisco State University Professor. An excellent bibliography is appended." 8E. "The Werewolf" by Montague Summers. New Hyde Park: University Books, 1966. (TS-3)
MA: "Completed in 1933, this is a detailed history of lycanthropy, backed up with extensive notes and bibliographical entries. Primarily useful as an overview of the subject. Not nearly as hysterical in tone as some of Summers' other works." 8F. "The Werewolf of Paris" by Guy Endore. NY: Farrar & Rinehart, 1933. (TS- 5)
MA: "This novel is to lycanthropy what Dracula is to vampirism. If you are so rash as to order a copy, the book dealer may shoot you on sight [with a silver bullet].
Not advisable to read during the full Moon, particularly if you have neighbors who might resent your howling at it." 8G. "Man Into Wolf" by Robert Eisner. NY: Philosophical Library, 1951 (republished Santa Barbara: Ross-Erikson, Inc., 1978). (CS-4) (TS-4)
MA: "Highly regarded by Anton LaVey as a psychological analysis of lycanthropy, this work is an anthropologically-based treatment of sadism, masochism, and lycanthropy in the form of a 30-page lecture and 233 (!) pages of footnotes to that lecture. The issue is whether man is inherently savage or whether he imitated savagery from other species and hence has the prerogative to rid himself of it.
The notes are very extensive, amounting to an annotated bibliography of lycanthropic literature. Introduction to the original edition by Sir David K. Henderson and to the 1978 edition by Donald Lathrop." 8H. "Cult of the Cat" by Patricia Dale Green. NY: Tower Publications, 1970 [later reprinted as "The Archetypal Cat" by Spring Publications, Dallas, TX]. (CS-3) AL: "Without question the most enlightening book yet written on the relationship of the cat to Satanism." 8I. "Vampires" by Berhardt J. Hurwood. NY: Omnibus Press, 1981. (TS-3)
MA: "Hurwood (author of #8A) produced this as a 'coffee-table' book on vampires - bits and pieces of interesting information concerning vampirism in general.
It is less analytical and psychological than #8A, while at the same time being more story-, movie-, and legend-oriented. Included are an extensive bibliography, an indexed listing of all films on the theme of vampirism, and even a directory of vampire-related organizations." 8J. "Interview with the Vampire" by Anne Rice. NY: Ballantine Books, 1976. (TS-3) (OV-1) Robertt Neilly IV*: "Though "IV" has an excellent story line, its real value consists of its examples of vampiric/human characteristics thought to be hidden from view. The story is told from the vampire's perspective, and addresses many aspects of the 'ancient & essential instincts' discussed in the preamble to this category. The novel also explores goals for those who would tap the mind's potential. Described is the process of transformation & transmutation from human to vampire, together with the experience of surviving death via the Will."
