# Was Hitler a Rothschild?

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/esp_sociopol_rothschild04.htm

by David Icke
from DavidIcke Website
Official history is merely a veil to hide the truth of what really happened. When the veil is lifted, again and again we see that not only is the official version not true, it is often 100% wrong. Take the Rothschilds, the bloodline formerly known, among other names, as the Bauers, one of the most notorious black occult bloodlines of Middle Ages Germany. It became known as Rothschild (red-shield or rotes-schild in German) in the 18th century when a financial dynasty was founded in Frankfurt by Mayer Amschel Rothschild working in league with the Illuminati House of Hesse and others.
They took their name from the red shield or hexagram/Star of David on the front of their house in Frankfurt.
The Star of David or Seal of Solomon is an ancient esoteric symbol and only became associated with Jewish people after the Rothschilds adopted it for themselves. It has absolutely no connection to "David" or "Solomon", as Jewish historical sources confirm.
The Rothschilds are one of the top Illuminati bloodlines on the planet and they are shape-shifting reptilians (see The Biggest Secret). Guy de Rothschild, of the French House, heads this bloodline dynasty today. He is one of the most grotesque exponents of trauma-based mind control, indeed the top man according to many of those who have suffered mercilessly under his torture. I am always loath to use the world evil, but if evil is the reverse of live, Guy de Rothschild is thoroughly evil.
He stands for the opposite of life. He has been personally responsible for the torture and death of millions of children and adults, either directly or through those he controls. He conducts satanic rituals, as all these bloodlines have always done, and goodness knows how many human sacrifices he has been involved in. If what I am saying is wrong, Guy de Rothschild, then take me to court and lets reveal the evidence. You are a multi-billionaire and you control the courts and the media. I have next to nothing. I should, therefore, be a pushover. So come on, Mr. Rothschild, lets have you. Lets take these claims into the public arena and have you and me in the witness box. Make my day. Already I can hear the clamor gathering to condemn me as "anti-semitic" because the Rothschilds claim to be "Jewish." Organizations like the Anti-Defamation League and Bnai Brith have already made strenuous efforts to label me in this way for exposing the Rothschilds and to stop me speaking in public. How funny then that both organizations were created by, and continue to be bankrolled by, the Rothschilds. Just a co-incidence, nothing to worry about.
Bnai Brith means, appropriately, "Sons of the Alliance" and was established by the Rothschilds in 1843 as an intelligence arm and to defame and destroy legitimate researchers with the label "anti semitic."
Many of their speakers openly supported slavery during the American Civil War and today they seek to condemn some black leaders as "anti-semitic" or "racist!" Every year, the Anti Defamation League award their "Torch of Liberty" (the classic Illuminati symbol) to the person they believe has served their cause the most. One year they gave it to Morris Dalitz, an intimate of the notorious Meyer Lansky crime syndicate which terrorized America. Perfect choice. Of course, the strength of feeling that fans the flames of condemnation against anyone dubbed "anti-semitic" today is the sickening persecution of Jewish people by the Nazis of Adolf Hitler. To expose or question the actions of the Rothschilds or any other Jewish person or organization is to be called a "nazi" and "anti-semitic", that all-encompassing label which has discredited so many researchers and stopped them having the opportunity to speak in public because of protest by unthinking robot radicals and the refusal of venues to host their meetings.
I have had this from time to time, not least in eastern Canada thanks to a campaign by Bnai Brith and the Anti-Defamation League (which spends its entire time trying to defame people). Both organizations, I repeat, are Rothschild created and controlled. How strange then, that as I have documented in And The Truth Shall Set You Free and The Biggest Secret, along with endless other researchers and scholars, Adolf Hitler and the Nazis were created and funded by the Rothschilds.
It was they who arranged for Hitler to come to power through the Illuminati secret societies in Germany like the Thule Society and the Vril Society which they created through their German networks; it was the Rothschilds who funded Hitler through the Bank of England and other British and American sources like the Rothschilds Kuhn, Loeb, bank which also funded the Russian Revolution. The very heart of Hitlers war machine was the chemical giant, I.G. Farben, which had an American arm that was controlled by the Rothschilds through their lackeys, the Warburgs.
Paul Warburg, who manipulated into existence the privately-owned "central bank" of America, the Federal Reserve, in 1913, was on the board of American I.G. Indeed Hitlers I.G. Farben, which ran the slave labour camp at Auchwitz, was, in reality, a division of Standard Oil, officially owned by the Rockefellers, but in truth the Rockefeller empire was funded into existence by the Rothschilds.
See And The Truth Shall Set You Free and The Biggest Secret for the detailed background of this and other aspects of this story.
The Rothschilds also owned the German news agencies during both World Wars and thus controlled the flow of "information" to Germans and the outside world. Incidentally, when Allied troops entered Germany they found that the I.G. Farben factories, the very core of Hitlers war operation, had not been hit by the mass bombing and neither had Ford factories - another Illuminati supporter of Hitler. Other factories nearby had been demolished by bombing raids. So the force behind Adolf Hitler, on behalf of the Illuminati, was the House of Rothschild, this "Jewish" bloodline which claims to support and protect the Jewish faith and people. In fact they use and sickeningly abuse the Jewish people for their own horrific ends. The Rothschilds, like the Illuminati in general, treat the mass of the Jewish people with utter contempt.
They are, like the rest of the global population, just cattle to be used to advance the agenda of global control and mastery by a network of interbreeding bloodlines, impregnated with a reptilian genetic code, and known to researchers as the Illuminati. Indeed, the Illuminati are so utterly obsessed with bloodline, because of this reptilian genetic code, that there was no way that someone like Hitler would come to power in those vital circumstances for the Illuminati, unless he was of the reptilian bloodline. If you look elsewhere on this website you will see how the same bloodline has held the positions of royal, aristocratic, financial, political, military, and media power in the world for literally thousands of years.
This is the bloodline that has produced ALL 42 of the Presidents of the United States since and including George Washington in 1789. It is the bloodline of the runaway favorite to win the 2000 election, George W. Bush.
The World War Two leaders, Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin, were of the bloodline and also Freemasons and Satanists. They were manipulated into office, and their countrys war effort funded, by the Rothschilds and the other Illuminati bloodlines. So are we to believe, therefore, that although this same group provably funded Adolf Hitlers rise to power and his war machine, that he would be the odd one out, a leader of crucial importance to the agenda who was NOT bloodline? But hold on. Hitler couldnt be the same bloodline as, say, the Rothschilds because, as we all know, the Rothschilds are defenders of Jewish people and Hitler slaughtered them, along with communists and gypsies and others who opposed him or he wanted to eliminate. The Rothschilds are Jewish, theyd never do that. Oh really. According to a book by a psychoanalyst, Walter Langer, called The Mind of Hitler, not only was Hitler supported by the Rothschilds, he WAS a Rothschild.
This revelation fits like a glove with the actions of the Rothschilds and other Illuminati bloodlines in Germany who brought Hitler to the fore as dictator of that nation. He was also supported by the British Royal Family, the House of Windsor (in truth the German House of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha), and these included the British royal "war hero", Lord Mountbatten, a Rothschild and a Satanist.
Their royal relatives in Germany, who you would never have thought would normally support an apparent guy from the street like Hitler, were among his most enthusiastic supporters. But, of course, they knew who he really was. There is no way in the world when you do any study of the Illuminati obsession with bloodline that Hitler would not have been one of them.
Langer writes:
"Adolfs father, Alois Hitler, was the illegitimate son of Maria Anna Schicklgruber. It was generally supposed that the father of Alois Hitler (Schicklgruber) was Johann Georg Hiedler. There are some people who seriously doubt that Johann Georg Hiedler was the father of Alois (an Austrian document was) prepared that proved Maria Anna Schicklgruber was living in Vienna at the time she conceived. At that time she was employed as a servant in the home of Baron Rothschild. As soon as the family discovered her pregnancy she was sent back home... where Alois was born."
"Adolfs father, Alois Hitler, was the illegitimate son of Maria Anna Schicklgruber. It was generally supposed that the father of Alois Hitler (Schicklgruber) was Johann Georg Hiedler. There are some people who seriously doubt that Johann Georg Hiedler was the father of Alois (an Austrian document was) prepared that proved Maria Anna Schicklgruber was living in Vienna at the time she conceived.
At that time she was employed as a servant in the home of Baron Rothschild. As soon as the family discovered her pregnancy she was sent back home... where Alois was born."
Langers information came from the high level Gestapo officer, Hansjurgen Koehler, published in 1940, under the title "Inside the Gestapo". He writes about the investigations into Hitlers background carried out by the Austrian Chancellor, Dolfuss, in the family files of Hitler. Koehler actually viewed a copy of the Dolfuss documents which were given to him by Heydrich, the overlord of the Nazi Secret Service. The file, he wrote, "caused such havoc as no file in the world ever caused before" (Inside the Gestapo, p 143).
He also revealed that:
"..The second bundle in the blue file contained the documents collected by Dolfuss. The small statured, but big-hearted Austrian Chancellor must have known by such a personal file he might be able to check Hitler His task was not difficult; as ruler of Austria he could easily find out about the personal data and family of Adolf Hitler, who had been born on Austrian soil... Through the original birth certificates, police registration cards, protocols, etc., all contained in the original file, the Austrian Chancellor succeeded in piecing together the disjointed parts of the puzzle, creating a more or less logical entity. A little servant girl (Hitlers grandmother) came to Vienna and became a domestic servant, mostly working for rather rich families. But she was unlucky; having been seduced, she was about to bear a child. She went home to her village for her confinement Where was the little maid serving in Vienna? This was not a very difficult problem. Very early Vienna had instituted the system of compulsory police registration. Both servants and the employers were exposed to heavy fines if they neglected this duty. Chancellor Dolfuss managed to discover the registration card. The little, innocent maid had been a servant at the Rothschild mansion. ..and Hitlers unknown grandfather must be probably looked for in this magnificent house. The Dolfuss file stopped at this statement."
"..The second bundle in the blue file contained the documents collected by Dolfuss. The small statured, but big-hearted Austrian Chancellor must have known by such a personal file he might be able to check Hitler His task was not difficult; as ruler of Austria he could easily find out about the personal data and family of Adolf Hitler, who had been born on Austrian soil...
Through the original birth certificates, police registration cards, protocols, etc., all contained in the original file, the Austrian Chancellor succeeded in piecing together the disjointed parts of the puzzle, creating a more or less logical entity. A little servant girl (Hitlers grandmother) came to Vienna and became a domestic servant, mostly working for rather rich families. But she was unlucky; having been seduced, she was about to bear a child. She went home to her village for her confinement Where was the little maid serving in Vienna? This was not a very difficult problem.
Very early Vienna had instituted the system of compulsory police registration. Both servants and the employers were exposed to heavy fines if they neglected this duty. Chancellor Dolfuss managed to discover the registration card. The little, innocent maid had been a servant at the Rothschild mansion. ..and Hitlers unknown grandfather must be probably looked for in this magnificent house. The Dolfuss file stopped at this statement."
Was Hitlers determination to take over Austria anything to do with his desire to destroy records of his lineage? A correspondent who has extensively researched this subject writes:
"It appears to me that Hitler knew about his connection long before his Chancellorship. Like his father before him, when the going got rough, the Hitlers went to Vienna. Hitlers father left his home village at an early age to seek his fortune in Vienna. When Hitler was orphaned, after his mother died in December of 1907, he left for Vienna not long after the funeral. There he seemed to drop out of sight for ten months! What happened during this ten-month stay in Vienna is a complete mystery on which history sheds no light. It makes sense, now that it has become established that Hitler was a Rothschild, that he and his cousins were getting acquainted, and his potential for future family endeavors was being sized up".
"It appears to me that Hitler knew about his connection long before his Chancellorship. Like his father before him, when the going got rough, the Hitlers went to Vienna. Hitlers father left his home village at an early age to seek his fortune in Vienna. When Hitler was orphaned, after his mother died in December of 1907, he left for Vienna not long after the funeral.
There he seemed to drop out of sight for ten months! What happened during this ten-month stay in Vienna is a complete mystery on which history sheds no light. It makes sense, now that it has become established that Hitler was a Rothschild, that he and his cousins were getting acquainted, and his potential for future family endeavors was being sized up".
The Rothschilds and the Illuminati produce many offspring out of wedlock in their secret breeding programs and these children are brought up under other names with other parents.
Like Bill Clinton, who is almost certainly a Rockefeller produced in the same way, these "ordinary kids from ordinary backgrounds" go on to be extraordinarily successful in their chosen field. Hitler, too, would have produced unofficial children to maintain his strand of the bloodline and there will obviously be people of his bloodline alive today. So which Rothschild was the grandfather of Hitler? My thanks to a website correspondent for the additional, updated, information to this article, a man has researched this story in some detail.
Alois, Hitlers father, was born in 1837 in the period when Salomon Mayer was the only Rothschild who lived at the Vienna mansion. Even his wife did not live there because their marriage was so bad that she stayed in Frankfurt. Their son, Anselm Salomon spent most of his working life in Paris and Frankfurt away from Vienna and his father. Father Salomon Mayer, living alone at the Vienna mansion where Hitlers grandmother worked, is the prime, most obvious candidate.
And Hermann von Goldschmidt, the son of Salomon Mayers senior clerk, wrote a book, published in 1917, which said of Salomon:
" by the 1840s he had developed a somewhat reckless enthusiasm for young girls.." and "He had a lecherous passion for very young girls, his adventures with whom had to be hushed up by the police."
And Hitlers grandmother, a young girl working under the same roof would not have been the subject of Salomons desire?
And this same girl became pregnant while working there? And her grandson becomes the Chancellor of Germany, funded by the Rothschilds, and he started the Second World War which was so vital to the Rothschild-Illuminati agenda? And the Illuminati are obsessed with putting their bloodlines into power on all "sides" in a conflict?
And the Rothschilds are one of their most key bloodlines? And it is all a co-incidence?
HITLER WAS A ROTHSCHILD!!
The Second World War was incredibly productive for the Illuminati agenda of global control.
It led to an explosion of globally-centralized institutions, like the United Nations and the European Community, now Union, and many others in finance, business, and the military. Precisely what they wanted. It also put countries under an enormous burden of debt on loans provided to all sides by... the Rothschilds and the Illuminati. The Rothschilds had long had a plan to create a personal fiefdom for themselves and the Illuminati in Palestine and that plan involved manipulating Jewish people to settle the area as their "homeland." Charles Taze Russell, of the Illuminati-reptilian Russell bloodline, was the man who founded the Watchtower Society, better known as the Jehovahs Witnesses.
He was a Satanist, a pedophile according to his wife, and most certainly Illuminati.
His new "religion (mind-control cult) was funded by the Rothschilds and he was a friend of theirs, just like the founders of the Mormons who were also Rothschild-funded through Kuhn, Loeb, and Co. Russell and the Mormon founders were all Freemasons.
In 1880, Charles Taze Russell, this friend of the Rothschilds, predicted that the Jews would return to their homeland. It was about the only prediction Russell ever got right. Why? Because he knew that was the plan. He wrote to the Rothschilds praising their efforts to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine. Then, in 1917, came the famous Balfour Declaration, when the British Foreign Minister, Lord Balfour, stated on behalf of his government that they supported the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. Now when you hear that phrase, the Balfour Declaration, you get the feeling that it was some kind of statement or public announcement. But not so. The Balfour declaration was a letter from Lord Balfour to Lord Lionel Walter Rothschild. Researchers say that the letter was in fact WRITTEN by Lord Rothschild and his employee, the banker, Alfred Milner. Now get this. One of the most important secret societies of the 20th century is called the Round Table. It is based in Britain with branches across the world.
It is the Round Table that ultimately orchestrates the network of the Bilderberg Group, Council on Foreign Relations, Trilateral Commission and the Royal Institute of International Affairs. See my books for details.
How fascinating then, that Lord Balfour was an inner circle member of the Round Table, Alfred Milner was the Round Tables official leader after the death of Cecil Rhodes, and the Round Table was funded by... Lord Lionel Walter Rothschild. These were the very three people involved in the Balfour Declaration of 1917. Two years later, in 1919, came the Versailles Peace Conference near Paris when the elite of the Round Table from Britain and the United States, people like Alfred Milner, Edward Mandel House, and Bernard Baruch, were appointed to represent their countries at the meetings which decided how the world would be changed as a result of the war these same people had created.
They decided to impose impossible reparations payments on Germany, so ensuring the collapse of the post-war Weimar Republic amid unbelievable economic collapse and thus create the very circumstances that brought the Rothschild, Hitler, to power. It was while in Paris that these Illuminati, Round Table, members met at the Hotel Majestic to begin the process of creating the Bilderberg-CFR-RIIA-Trilateral Commission network.
They also decided at Versailles that they now all supported the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine. As I show in my books, EVERY ONE of them was either a Rothschild bloodline or was controlled by them. The American President, Woodrow Wilson, was "advised" at Versailles by Colonel House and Bernard Baruch, both Rothschild clones and leaders of the Round Table in the United States; The British Prime Minister, Lloyd George, was "advised" by Alfred Milner, Rothschild employee and Round Table leader, and Sir Phillip Sassoon, a direct descendent of Mayer Amschel Rothschild, the founder of the dynasty; The French leader, Georges Clemenceau, was "advised" by his Minister for the Interior, Georges Mandel, whose real name was Jeroboam Rothschild. Who do you think was making the decisions here?? But it went further. Also in the American delegation were the Dulles brothers, John Foster Dulles, who would become US Secretary of State, and Allen Dulles, who would become first head of the new CIA after World War Two. The Dulles brothers were bloodline, would later be supporters of Hitler, and were employed by the Rothschilds at Kuhn, Loeb, and Co. They were also involved in the assassination of John F. Kennedy and Allen Dulles would serve on the Warren Commission which investigated the assassination.
The American delegation at Versailles was also represented by the Rothschild-controlled, Paul Warburg, of Kuhn, Loeb and the American branch of I.G. Farben, while the German delegation included his brother, Max Warburg, who would become Hitlers banker!! Their host in France during the "peace" conference was Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the leading force at the time pressing for the creation of a Jewish homeland in Israel. See my books for fine detail. The Rothschilds have always been the true force behind the Zionist Movement. Zionism is in fact SIONism, Sion = the Sun, hence the name of the elite secret society behind the Merovingian bloodline, the Priory of Sion. Contrary to most peoples understanding, Zionism is not the Jewish people. Many Jews are not Zionists and many non-Jews are. Zionism is a political movement, not a race. To say Zionism is the Jewish people is like saying the Democratic Party is the American people. Jewish people who oppose Zionism, however, have been given a very hard time. Now, having manipulated their puppet-governments to support their plan for a personal fiefdom in the Middle East, the Rothschilds began the process of settling Jewish people in Palestine. As always they treated their own people with contempt.
Enter Baron Edmond de Rothschild, the "Father of Israel", who died in 1934, the man who hosted the Versailles "peace" delegations. Edmond was from the French House, like Guy de Rothschild. Edmond, in fact, began to settle Jews in Palestine as far back as the 1880s (when Charles Taze Russell was making his prediction).
He financed Russian Jews to establish settlements in Palestine, but it was nothing to do with their freedom or birthright, it was to advance the Rothschild-Illuminati agenda. Edmond financed the creation of farms and factories and ran the whole operation with a rod of iron.
The Jewish farmers were told what to grow and they soon found out who was in charge if they questioned his orders. In 1901, these Jewish people complained to Rothschild about this dictatorship over their settlement or "Yishuv".
They asked him:
"..if you wish to save the Yishuv, first take your hands from it, and for once permit the colonists to have the possibility of correcting for themselves whatever needs correcting.."
Baron Rothschild replied:
"I created the Yishuv, I alone. Therefore no men, neither colonists nor organizations, have the right to interfere in my plans.."
In one sentence, you have the true attitude of the Rothschilds to Jewish people, and indeed, the human population in general.
These people are NOT Jews, they are a non-human bloodline with a reptilian genetic code who hide behind the Jewish people and use them as a screen and a means to an end. According to Simon Schamas book, Two Rothschilds and the Land of Israel (Collins, London, 1978), the Rothschilds acquired 80% of the land of Israel. Edmond de Rothschild worked closely with Theodore Herzl, who just happened to be the founder of Zionism, the political movement created to ensure a "Jewish" homeland in Palestine. Rothschild was also the power behind Chaim Weizmann, another leader of Zionism.
As Rothschild told Weizmann:
"Without me Zionism would not have succeeded, but without Zionism my work would have been stuck to death."
So now with the Rothschilds increasing their financing of Jewish settlements in Palestine, and with their agents in governments officially supporting their plans for a Rothschild, sorry Jewish, homeland, they needed a catalyst which would demolish Arab protests at the take-over of their country.
That catalyst was the horrific treatment of Jews in Germany and the countries they conquered by the Rothschild-funded Nazis and one of their own, a Rothschild called Adolf Hitler. The wave of revulsion at the Nazi concentration camps gave vital and, in the end, crucial impetus to the Rothschild agenda. It was they who funded the Jewish terrorist operations like the Stern Gang and Irgun, which committed mayhem and murder to bring the State of Rothschild (Israel) into being in 1948.
These terrorist groups, who slaughtered Jewish people with equal enthusiasm, were led by the very people who later rose to lead the new Israel people like Menachem Begin, David Ben-Gurion, Yitzhak Rabin, and Yitzhak Shamir. It was these Rothschild-controlled Zionist gangs who murdered the international mediator Count Bernadotte on September 17, 1948, apparently because he had been intending to present a new partition resolution to the United Nations. And the Rothschilds were not satisfied with causing the unimaginable suffering of Jewish people under the Nazis, they also stole their wealth when the war was over, just as they stole the Russian wealth during the revolution they had financed. In early 1998, during a speaking tour of South Africa, I had a personal meeting with P.W. Botha, the apartheid President of South Africa during the 1980s.
The invitation came out of the blue when I was speaking a few miles from his home. We spoke for an hour and a half about the manipulation of South Africa and it was not long before names like Henry Kissinger, Lord Carrington, and the Rothschilds came up.
"I had some strange dealings with the English Rothschilds in Cape Town when I was president", he said, and he went on to tell me a story that sums up the Rothschilds so perfectly.
He said they had asked for a meeting with him and his foreign minister, the Illuminati operative, Pik Botha (no relation).
At that meeting, he said, the Rothschilds told him there was massive wealth in Swiss bank accounts which once belonged to German Jews and it was available for investment in South Africa if they could agree an interest rate.
This is the very wealth, stolen from German Jews who suffered under the Nazis, which has come to light amid great scandal in recent years. The Rothschilds have been making a fortune from it since the war!! Botha told me he refused to accept the money, but Pik Botha left the meeting with the Rothschilds and he could not be sure that they did not come to some arrangement. Breathtaking? Of course it is, but the world is not how we think it is. To this day the Rothschilds continue to control the State that has their family symbol on its flag and it is they who use that country and its people to maintain the conflict, both within its borders and with surrounding Arab countries, which has allowed the Illuminati-Rothschilds to control their so called "Arc of Crisis" in the Middle East through divide, rule, and conquer.
It has allowed them, not least, to control the oil-producing countries since the war when the oil really came on line.
PLEASE, JEWISH PEOPLE OF ISRAEL AND THE WORLD, LOOK AT THIS. YOU ARE BEING PLAYED OFF AGAINST THE NON-JEWISH RACES AND VISA-VERSA. YOU AND ALL OF US WHO CARE ABOUT OUR CHILDREN AND THE FREEDOM OF THE WORLD MUST UNITE AND FOCUS ON THE FORCE THAT IS PLAYING ALL PEOPLE LIKE A VIOLIN. FEAR OF EACH OTHER AND DIVIDE AND RULE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN THE BASIC TOOLS OF DICTATORS, GLOBAL AND OTHERWISE. AND I SAY THIS TO ARAB PEOPLE: NEVER, NEVER, NEVER, DO THE ROTHSCHILDS AND THE ILLUMINATI CONTROL ONLY ONE SIDE IN A CONFLICT. IF THEY DID THEY COULD NOT BE SURE OF THE OUTCOME AND THATS NOT THE WAY THEY PLAY THE GAME. IN EVERY SIGNIFICANT CONFLICT THEY CONTROL THE LEADERSHIP OF ALL FACTIONS, EVEN THOUGH THEY MAY FIGHT AND BATTLE WITH EACH OTHER ON THE PUBLIC STAGE. SO WE KNOW WHO CONTROLS THE JEWISH LEADERSHIP IN ISRAEL. THE ROTHSCHILDS AND THE ILLUMINATI. BUT WHO, THEREFORE, CONTROLS YASSER ARAFAT? Ill GIVE YOU ONE GUESS. THE SAME PEOPLE WHO CONTROLLED MENACHEM BEGIN OF ISRAEL AND PRESIDENT SADAT OF EGYPT DURING THE "PEACE AGREEMENT" OF THE CARTER PRESIDENCY. BEGIN, SADAT, AND CARTER, WERE ALL ILLUMINATI PUPPETS, JUST AS THE ISRAEL LEADERSHIP, ARAFAT, AND CLINTON ARE TODAY. ITS A SCAM, A SHAM, A MOVIE FOR PUBLIC CONSUMPTION ONLY. WHAT IS DONE IS DONE AND THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL-PALESTINE NEED TO WORK AND LIVE TOGETHER IN HARMONY AND MUTUAL RESPECT. THERE IS NO OTHER WAY, EXCEPT MORE DEATHS, MORE SUFFERING, MORE CONFLICT - EXACTLY WHAT THE ILLUMINATI AND THE ROTHSCHILDS WANT. THEY HAVE HORRENDOUS PLANS FOR ISRAEL IN WHICH ALL SIDES WILL SUFFER, NOT LEAST THEIR PLANS FOR A MAJOR EVENT AT THE TEMPLE MOUNT MOSQUE, THE SITE OF THE SO CALLED "TEMPLE OF SOLOMON" ACCORDING TO THE JEWISH BELIEF SYSTEM COME ON PEOPLES OF THE WORLD, NO MATTER WHAT YOUR RACE, COLOUR, OR CULTURE. NO MATTER WHAT YOUR RELIGIOUS BELIEF OR YOUR SPIN ON LIFE. THE FREEDOM, WHAT REMAINS OF IT, FOR ALL OF US IS AT STAKE HERE AND WHILE WE ARE DIVIDED ON THESE IRRELEVANT GROUNDS, THAT FREEDOM IS DOOMED. LETS WORK TOGETHER WHILE THERE IS STILL TIME. WAR IS OVER WHEN WE WANT IT. THE WORLD IS WHATEVER WE ALLOW IT TO BE. WE WANT TO CHANGE THE WORLD. OK, LETS CHANGE OURSELVES.
PLEASE, JEWISH PEOPLE OF ISRAEL AND THE WORLD, LOOK AT THIS. YOU ARE BEING PLAYED OFF AGAINST THE NON-JEWISH RACES AND VISA-VERSA. YOU AND ALL OF US WHO CARE ABOUT OUR CHILDREN AND THE FREEDOM OF THE WORLD MUST UNITE AND FOCUS ON THE FORCE THAT IS PLAYING ALL PEOPLE LIKE A VIOLIN. FEAR OF EACH OTHER AND DIVIDE AND RULE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN THE BASIC TOOLS OF DICTATORS, GLOBAL AND OTHERWISE. AND I SAY THIS TO ARAB PEOPLE: NEVER, NEVER, NEVER, DO THE ROTHSCHILDS AND THE ILLUMINATI CONTROL ONLY ONE SIDE IN A CONFLICT. IF THEY DID THEY COULD NOT BE SURE OF THE OUTCOME AND THATS NOT THE WAY THEY PLAY THE GAME. IN EVERY SIGNIFICANT CONFLICT THEY CONTROL THE LEADERSHIP OF ALL FACTIONS, EVEN THOUGH THEY MAY FIGHT AND BATTLE WITH EACH OTHER ON THE PUBLIC STAGE. SO WE KNOW WHO CONTROLS THE JEWISH LEADERSHIP IN ISRAEL. THE ROTHSCHILDS AND THE ILLUMINATI. BUT WHO, THEREFORE, CONTROLS YASSER ARAFAT? Ill GIVE YOU ONE GUESS. THE SAME PEOPLE WHO CONTROLLED MENACHEM BEGIN OF ISRAEL AND PRESIDENT SADAT OF EGYPT DURING THE "PEACE AGREEMENT" OF THE CARTER PRESIDENCY. BEGIN, SADAT, AND CARTER, WERE ALL ILLUMINATI PUPPETS, JUST AS THE ISRAEL LEADERSHIP, ARAFAT, AND CLINTON ARE TODAY. ITS A SCAM, A SHAM, A MOVIE FOR PUBLIC CONSUMPTION ONLY. WHAT IS DONE IS DONE AND THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL-PALESTINE NEED TO WORK AND LIVE TOGETHER IN HARMONY AND MUTUAL RESPECT. THERE IS NO OTHER WAY, EXCEPT MORE DEATHS, MORE SUFFERING, MORE CONFLICT - EXACTLY WHAT THE ILLUMINATI AND THE ROTHSCHILDS WANT.
THEY HAVE HORRENDOUS PLANS FOR ISRAEL IN WHICH ALL SIDES WILL SUFFER, NOT LEAST THEIR PLANS FOR A MAJOR EVENT AT THE TEMPLE MOUNT MOSQUE, THE SITE OF THE SO CALLED "TEMPLE OF SOLOMON" ACCORDING TO THE JEWISH BELIEF SYSTEM COME ON PEOPLES OF THE WORLD, NO MATTER WHAT YOUR RACE, COLOUR, OR CULTURE. NO MATTER WHAT YOUR RELIGIOUS BELIEF OR YOUR SPIN ON LIFE.
THE FREEDOM, WHAT REMAINS OF IT, FOR ALL OF US IS AT STAKE HERE AND WHILE WE ARE DIVIDED ON THESE IRRELEVANT GROUNDS, THAT FREEDOM IS DOOMED.
LETS WORK TOGETHER WHILE THERE IS STILL TIME. WAR IS OVER WHEN WE WANT IT. THE WORLD IS WHATEVER WE ALLOW IT TO BE. WE WANT TO CHANGE THE WORLD. OK, LETS CHANGE OURSELVES.
Return to David Icke
Return to The Rothschild
