# Weaponize It! - The Military-Industrial Complex' Latest Insanities

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalmilitarism191.htm

by Zen Gardner March 6, 2015
from ZenGardner Website
What's with this world? It doesn't matter what new technology surfaces, "how can we weaponize it?" is the overarching meme of the "powers that shouldn't be" of self-appointed overlords. It's insane to the max. Whether it's money, viruses and bacteria, flying things, vaccines, food, water, sound and electromagnetic technology, anything with a camera, x-rays and radiation, forays into space, psychological advances, animals and insects, vehicles of any sort including unmanned drones of every size, time travel and remote viewing, microchips and computers, robots, transhuman bodily attachments, genetic modification, and even the air, environment and flipping weather. And that's just some of the stuff we know about. Whatever...
"Weaponize it!"
Latest Insanity If what's already in the cookers of these psychopaths isn't enough, they even enjoy letting on little slivers of what they're willing to "confess" to, just to keep the mass mind conditioned to accept whatever new "scientific advancement" has been translated into weaponry.
US Navy successfully test devastating new laser weapon A NEW devastating laser weapon has been successfully tested by the US Navy that could change modern warfare. Weapon experts Lockheed Martin developed the new laser gun which can destroy targets with minimal damage to human life. The weapon, named Advanced Test High Energy Asset (ATHENA), was able to immobilize a truck from over a mile away. On a recent test performed by the US Navy. The truck was hit by the a 30kw laser and was able to slice through the bonnet and melt the engine in a matter of seconds. ATHENA incorporates a 30-kilowatt fibre laser developed by the company in Bothell, Washington and is based on the Area Defence Anti-Munitions (ADAM) laser weapon system. The laser weapon has also been proven effective in demonstrations against small airborne and sea-based targets. Keoki Jackson, Lockheed Martin chief technology officer said: "Fibre-optic lasers are revolutionizing directed energy systems. We are investing in every component of the system - from the optics and beam control to the laser itself - to drive size, weight and power efficiencies." Source
US Navy successfully test devastating new laser weapon A NEW devastating laser weapon has been successfully tested by the US Navy that could change modern warfare. Weapon experts Lockheed Martin developed the new laser gun which can destroy targets with minimal damage to human life. The weapon, named Advanced Test High Energy Asset (ATHENA), was able to immobilize a truck from over a mile away.
On a recent test performed by the US Navy. The truck was hit by the a 30kw laser and was able to slice through the bonnet and melt the engine in a matter of seconds. ATHENA incorporates a 30-kilowatt fibre laser developed by the company in Bothell, Washington and is based on the Area Defence Anti-Munitions (ADAM) laser weapon system.
The laser weapon has also been proven effective in demonstrations against small airborne and sea-based targets. Keoki Jackson, Lockheed Martin chief technology officer said:
"Fibre-optic lasers are revolutionizing directed energy systems. We are investing in every component of the system - from the optics and beam control to the laser itself - to drive size, weight and power efficiencies."
Source
Do you see the abject insanity of such an approach?
Yet conditioned humanity will accept such horrific death-dealing power as necessary and justified. There's not a mention of how such technology could be used to better mankind, and never will be.
Satanic Lunacy Just look at all the crap they're pumping out. It's incredible! All in the name of "national security".
DARPA, or the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, is a highly secretive branch of the Military Industrial Monster that spends billions on developing just such insanities, but that's the only officially known black op.
Cloaked in this extremely handy veil of "classified" like so many 10's of thousands of documents and undercover operations for decades, DARPA does whatever the hell it pleases. Like the shadow government. While the populace sleeps, feeling "protected" from one set of fictitious "bad guys" after the other. So called "Congress" is a long dead joke in this cryptocracy anachronistically called the United States. That icon of so-called "freedom" has slipped off like a bad toupee worn by a Hitler look-alike in a wax museum.
Your bullshit detector has to be changed and cleaned more often than a baby's diaper just to keep up with the lies being spun on an hourly basis. It's sick out there. All the more reason to stay detached, awake and fully conscious where freedom truly reigns.
Warmonger by John Carroll
Who Are the Warmongers? This is an important question to ask.
When you find out all of the so-called enemies have been either entirely fictional or deliberately fabricated you start to catch on. It also leaves you with the horrific spectre of a very dark shadowy influence with way too much power and a cornucopia of bad intentions. Nasty conclusion, but a true one. The Defense Department, once more openly called the War Department, is the tip of the iceberg. War is a money maker, as well as a release valve for sick psychopaths, a chance to rearrange the world, take over vital natural resources, reward the gofers with new despotic positions of power, and last but not least enjoy a massive occult, sacrificial ritual to energetically empower those engaged in the dark sorcery of subduing our planet and its native races. I bring that up because the source is all important. If anyone can stand back and see how massive this assumptive manipulated world view is, they will deduce there is more than just wicked, evil and power crazed money grubbers at work here. We're hitting new dimensions.
This strain of coordinated, frighteningly similar tactics takes on the appearance of a science fiction alien movie. Why? Because it is...
They Play Us at Every Level We're not dealing with conspiracy theory, but conspiracy fact.
And as David Icke has wisely said, that doesn't make every conspiracy theory right either. Not at all. Especially the ones the PTBs spin as fact. Those are the biggest doozies.
But not one enlightened being I've ever known just swallows anything that comes along. Those in that frame of mind are usually trying to be a "success" in the alternative or new age world and look for things to confirm that, as Clif High has so astutely pointed out. Watch out for belief systems or ethereal cereal you can't quite grasp that leads you down the primrose path to nowhere. Because that's exactly where you'll end up giving your sovereign sense of judgment and hence your consciousness away.
"They Live" disguised amongst us
fact or fiction?
We're dealing with manipulative overlords here.
What populace would ever want to send its sons and daughters to die in a far off country? What human being in their right mind would want to fight against another human to the death for some abstract cause of its rulers?
What populace would ever want to send its sons and daughters to die in a far off country?
What human being in their right mind would want to fight against another human to the death for some abstract cause of its rulers?
If your life is directly threatened up close and personal, that would make sense.
But with these huge engineered wars and decades long escapades into far away lands with so little information except churned out propaganda, it just doesn't add up and never has. And how do they start and get their impetus going? An event a galvanizing event.
Pearl Harbor, a "new Pearl Harbor" - 9/11 - and a plethora of other examples. These wars are produced, directed and funded by this self-appointed ruling authority that humanity willingly acquiesces to.
But it is so essentially other-worldly in relation to true human nature there has got to be an outside source for this maniacal, highly sophisticated and manipulated passion for war and anything warlike. Granted, it may appeal to a reptilian side of human nature, but this preoccupation to the detriment of our very race goes way beyond that.
What Are They Fighting? There are many thoughts in this area.
Some say it's an evil, bloodthirsty way of life and method of self empowerment for a parasitic race converting humans into co-conspirators. Others say the earth is being set up as yet another base for an invading species to attack and overcome other planets and solar systems similar to ours, sort of the galactic federation model.
Some say it's an evil, bloodthirsty way of life and method of self empowerment for a parasitic race converting humans into co-conspirators.
Others say the earth is being set up as yet another base for an invading species to attack and overcome other planets and solar systems similar to ours, sort of the galactic federation model.
I don't know.
But it's weird, way weird, and deserves our stepping back to see the absolute insanity of it and pursue its source. At the very least it's a call to disconnect from it and remove our imprimatur of approval by our silence and cooperation! I do know we, the human race, are the most feared enemy they have. We have the power to throw them off if we'd be willing to wake up, unite and take action together, the most important of which is full on awakening which helps bring on the vibrational change they cannot handle.
But their awareness of this threat is the the reason for their stringent efforts to dumb us down via tainted food, water and air; a mind and spirit numbing propaganda barrage via education and media outlets, and the deprivation of Truth causing a massive worldwide spiritual asphyxiation. The following is a perfect summary of this issue and why they are afraid of us:
Conclusion Any way you look at it, it's off the charts weird on this here earth, and getting worse.
The escalating knowledge and scientific breakthroughs are not empowering as they should be, but instead are frightening in the hands of such monstrous entities tooling with the weakest of our race the greedy sell outs who will do anything for power and money and thus do the bidding of these shadow, ill intentioned powers. An easy bunch to convince they're doing the right thing, even by eliminating 90% of the earth's population as long as they survive and get rewarded with a position of power.
Talk about phony belief systems! Boy are they in for a surprise!! You really think such evil entities would keep their "word" about anything? How ironic... Let the underground base reptilian barbecues begin! Just wondering, as always...
Return to DARPA - Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Return to Global Militarism - The Military-Industrial Complex
Return to Consciousness and Sociopolitics
