# Why Bush & the CIA Had John Lennon Killed -- The Beatles, the Montauk 
Project, the Tavistock Institute and Mass Social Control

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_tavistock03.htm

by John Quinn
NewsHawk® inc. October 10, 1999
from Whale Website
Today is the birthday of Beatle John Lennon. In honor of the man and his wonderful music NewsHawk Inc. has decided to take a look at what was going on "behind the scenes" of the 1960's "countercultural revolution"; to explore a bit how the world's most popular and undeniably talented rock band was without ANY doubt "used" by New World Order social manipulators (as were MANY other pop music groups) in an ongoing project designed to control the development of human society in the most fundamental ways. There are direct links which tie these activities to certain covert scientific projects of an extremely advanced, esoteric nature which were exploring the realms of (manipulation of) consciousness, time, thought and indeed "reality" itself, which were being conducted during the same period of time on Long Island, N.Y.: activities which were part of the Phoenix/Montauk Project. In fact we are talking about two sides of the same coin here. On one side, the covert, subtle manipulation and control of not only thought and human consciousness but of the most fundamental, subatomic, electromagnetic matrix of (perceived) reality itself, using newly-developed electromagnetic/radio frequency technologies of extraordinary, unheard-of power and potential. On the other side, directly and overtly shifting the paradigm, changing the basic concepts, widening the parameters--the envelope, changing the playing field and all the rules of play by which society defines itself within an exceptionally short period of time. Factor in what was happening on more political levels such as the civil rights and anti-war movements, stir briskly while at full boil, and STAND BACK! What's rather amazing in fact is that society did NOT disintegrate/implode/explode in the way the social manipulators had apparently hoped. The higher qualities of human nature seemed to consistently float to the surface--with some notable exceptions--and certainly began to acquire a significant, if not nearly irresistible momentum of it's own; pulling in larger and larger segments, of "straight"', conventional, "moral majority" type elements of society. Obviously, the big plan was backfiring severely and something "needed to be done." The Beatles were also part of the mass experimentation that contemporary society was being subjected to by the CIA, Britain's MI6 and the Tavistock Institute utilizing extraordinarily powerful mind-altering psychedelic/psychotropic drugs. More than most of the other boys in the band, John Lennon became increasingly aware not only of the extent of corruption, co-opting and infiltration of the counterculture -- most CERTAINLY including the rock music scene -- by these same covert government intelligence elements. Lennon was also aware than one of the "big guns" in the CIA/Tavistock/MI6 arsenal, LSD, had been having effect upon the population groups to which it had been funneled so extensively that was most unexpected on the part of the social manipulators--and to a large extent the effect was rather positive and beneficial. Shortly before Lennon's death at the hands of what beyond the faintest glimmer of a shadow a doubt was a mind-controlled, "Manchurian Candidate" type assassin deployed by Tavistock/CIA/MI6, Mark Chapman to terminate a "loose cannon", Lennon had the audacity to massively and blatantly "out" the aforementioned consortium in a Playboy interview -- in which he made note of LSD's completely unforeseen liberating impact upon human society and civilization--pretty much thumbing his nose at the whole bunch and their whole trip; AND indicating as well that he was aware of the extent to which he and other pop musicians had been set up--to be used as dupes in massive social manipulation schemes. Shortly afterward, New World Order head honcho and Satanist, globalist, CIA chief and Tavistock underling vice-president George Bush had Lennon slaughtered on the streets of new York; where he died in the arms of someone that a number of sources claim was the monarch agent deployed by MI6/CIA to keep the exceptionally intelligent Lennon constantly gravitating toward the social fringe; thereby keeping his potential influence at least minimized -- Yoko Ono. That's NOT to say that even IF this last supposition is true, that genuine love and a fulfilling relationship did not exist between the two and that Yoko's "programming", just like John's, broke up and fell apart. And what about those Beatles, anyway? Anyone who has heard the Beatles' live tapes recorded in 1961 and 1962 on the "Reeperbahn" in Hamburg, Germany realizes that this was an incredibly talented and energetic bunch of rockers who no matter what would have undoubtedly had a significant impact upon popular music and thus upon society itself, regardless of things which occurred subsequently in their saga. And without any doubt being given access to state-of-the art audio and recording technologies and facilities stimulated their creativity quite a bit--for the benefit of all; "MR. KITE" included. Personally I think the Beatles were definitely "the greatest"--or damn close to it.
Return to Tavistock Institute
Return to CIA - The Central Intelligence Agency
