# Why the Fed & National Debt Are Illegal

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/master_file/nationaldebt.htm

Why the Fed
&
The National Debt Are Illegal
This Awareness indicates that you must understand that when the Federal Reserve Bank, the privately owned Federal Reserve bank, was given authority to print Federal Reserve notes instead of the Treasury Department writing the Treasury Notes as directed by the U.S. Constitution, these Federal Reserve notes were not printed to be given out to the economy, in the way as the Treasury Notes of the Treasury Department. Rather, they were loaned to the U.S. government and then circulated into society, and society was required to pay back interest on the IRS notes and that amount of interest accumulated to the point of approximately 5 trillion dollars at this time (Revelations of Awareness newsletter issue no. 430 1994), to where, if everything in the United States were sold, half of the debt would still be owed.
This Awareness indicates that the Treasury Department has the potential for totally denouncing the Federal Reserve debt of 5 trillion dollars because it was illegal in the first place. The Treasury Department in the U.S. Constitution is the only proper way of financing the nation; Congress, operating the Treasury Department has the right to mint and coin money, and set the value thereof.
This Awareness indicates that in this fact, the Federal Reserve was never given any such a right, even with the vote of the Congress, because Congress did not have the right to relegate its obligations to the Federal Reserve, therefore the entire debt of five trillion dollars, because it was illegal in the fist place, is not forcible in a technical sense.
The District of Colombia a Loop-Hole
Another factor is that because the U.S. government is situated in the District of Columbia, which is not part of the United States, it is essentially, according to Black's Law Dictionary, a different nation entirely. It is a Federal Nation, which rules over the District of Colombia. It has no real jurisdiction over the rest of the United States in a technical sense, and to pass laws taxing another country such as the United States is technically and legally in error.
You are being taxed by a foreign country. This Awareness indicates that this is not right, if you look at it from a legal and technical sense. This Awareness indicates that therefore, in the creation of the United States with the Capitol situated in the District of Colombia, which was not a state, an error by the Founding Fathers occurred, but this error has had benefits for the Rothschilds in that it has allowed them to break rules of the Constitution without fear being charged for treason, because these entities are not operating from within the United States, they are operating from a different country.
Thus, they can pass off their obligations to a Federal Reserve board, a Federal reserve bank; they can make rules of taxation against the masses, which would constitutionally prohibited. This Awareness indicates that it is indeed a situation in which the Rothschilds took total advantage of the loopholes, or the mistake by the Founding Fathers of creating the seat of the government in a non-state, in a District of Colombia.
Once the Federal Reserve Bank was created, people of the government needing money would only borrow from the Federal reserve Bank. The Federal Reserve bank only had to go to the Treasury Department and get money printed at printing costs, and then loaned the money out at full face value, thus making enormous profits and putting this nation into enormous debt.
National Debt Not a Legal Debt
The debt that is known as the National Debt of so many trillion dollars is simply the result of borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank, the money that the Treasury Department prints for them, which is used to print for the country. In other words, instead of being printed for the United States, it is printed for the foreign bankers and the United states borrows from them and owes them the National Debt, and the National Debt is so high now (Revelations of Awareness Newsletter 94-14 no. 440) that your grandchildren will never be able to pay it off.
By the year 2000, the debt will be so high that the interest will be greater than the taxes brought in. This Awareness indicates that the country will be bankrupt again. This time it will be taken over totally. This Awareness indicates that this country went bankrupt in 1933 and the gold standard was removed from the dollar and this country will be again further bankrupted, even though it has been operating on Federal Reserve notes.
These Federal Reserve notes have been used in such a wasteful manner, that all the borrowed money from the Federal Reserve, creating the national Debt, have not worked to restore a solid economy for this country. It is likened into an entity who goods broke, is bankrupt, has nothing, but through the apparent gratuity of a banker, is allowed to borrow enough to get a fresh start on credit.
The entity begins working, using credit to rebuild an apparent business, but forgets perhaps that it is all borrowed money, and thinks that he is doing quite well in this new thriving business, only to discover that after awhile, he is getting nowhere and his business activities are suffering further damage, and that he owns far more than he ever imagined he would owe, so that he is even deeper in debt now than he was at the time he borrowed the money to start his new business.
According to Law, National Debt is Null & Void
This Awareness indicates essentially, this country is bankrupt several times over, and the only way that it can be made whole in a legal sense is when entities recognize that the law suggests that anything, any debt, any contract, any activity of partnership between entities which is based on fraud from the beginning, is null and void.
This Awareness indicates that in accordance with the law in the Western world, which has come down from Rome through England and into the United States, the law reads that any contract, any obligation, financial or otherwise, which is based on fraud and misinterpretation or illegal activity, is null and void from the beginning.
New World Order (Global Governance) Accelerated Due to Hildebrand Lawsuit
This Awareness indicates that because the Federal Reserve Act was illegal, according to the Constitution, and because the loaning of money by an illegal foreign bank to the United States government and its people and projects is based on a banking scam that was originally illegal, then the debts that were brought about from such loans, are themselves illegal.
This Awareness indicates that with this understanding, the National Debt could be and should be declared null and void. This Awareness indicates that this is the concept or theory behind the Hildebrand settlement with the Federal Reserve Bank and there are several other suits that have been brought against the Federal Reserve Bank based on similar or the same concept.
This Awareness indicates that wherein on the one hand, the debts are falsified, are originally based on misinterpretation and fraud; on the other hand, they appear to be real debts, both to the Federal Reserve Bank and to the 13 super-wealthy families of the world.
The appearance is that which these families wish to continue. It is that which is creating the extreme urgency to bring on the New World Order before enough people awaken to the fraud, to stop the takeover of the country by those who perpetrated this fraud early in this century, and they use every means possible to continue and perpetuate this fraud.
The Declaration of Martial Law
This Awareness indicates that when Lincoln was assassinated, no one thought to put an end to his declaration of martial law because of the civil War and because the martial law has continued up to this time, from the time of the Civil war, the nation can be directed by what is called Admiralty Law or martial law by simply command of the President or the authority of the land or his agents.
It is not even acquired by Admiralty law that Congress conduct proceedings to make laws. The Admiralty Law can provide statutes, which are called statutory laws, while the country is under Admiralty or martial law, but the Admiralty and martial law must come to an end and eventually, and this is the year (Revelations of Awareness Newsletter 94-14) in which it must either end or be reinstated.
Thus, within a short time, entities will find a new effort to create martial law in this country again. It may be martial law against what is termed a crime wave, even though crime has decreased two years in a row and has not increased much in the past several years. This Awareness indicates it still is considered to be a major concern by most entities, because crime is being advertised continuously on television and in the news media, to make entities feel that crime is ever on the march, ever on the increase.
