# World Religions Unite as Prelude to Extraterrestrial Disclosure

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/SOCIOPOLITICA/sociopol_globalreligion08.htm

by Michael E. Salla June 22, 2017
from Exopolitics Website
Leaders from a diverse collection of religious communities issued an extraordinary statement for world unity in a video message released last week.
The call to world unity is a prelude to disclosure of extraterrestrial life according to independent sources working with secret space program whistleblower, Corey Goode. The world religious leaders came together on June 14 to make a joint statement through a video calling on people to embrace ideas of friendship and unity, and to overcome negativity and division in society.
It is available in 16 languages and features leaders from,
Buddhism Hinduism Christianity Islam Judaism,
Buddhism
Hinduism
Christianity
Islam
Judaism,
...and other faiths.
A press release states:
- World's Most Prominent Religious Leaders Make Historical Joint Appeal to Everyone - "Make Friends Across Religions" 14 June 2017 9:00 ET, 13:00 UTC, 14:00 BST, 15:00 CET 17:00 GST, 18:30 IST, 21:00 PHT, 23:00 AEST Source Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I Grand Mufti Shawki Allam Pope Francis H.H. the Dalai Lama Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks Ayatollah Sayyid Fadhel Al-Milani Bhai Sahib Mohinder Singh Mata Amritanandamayi (Amma) Archbishop Justin Welby Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Archbishop Antje Jackelén Ayatollah Sayyid Hassan Al-Qazwini Rabbi Abraham Skorka Ven. Khandro Rinpoche The most prominent leaders of the world's major religions released a joint appeal today calling on the people of the world to unify and make friends across religions. The statement is intended to reduce social tension around the world by stimulating interpersonal contact between people of different faiths. It was made by Pope Francis, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, H.H. the Dalai Lama, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and many others. Personal contact is believed to counter misperceptions, prejudices and distrust. The appeal was released as a 3-minute (above) video on Twitter (#MakeFriends) in 16 languages during a press conference in London. Each of the leaders contributed a personal statement for the exclusive purpose of creating this joint appeal. Ayatollah Al-Milani advises people to make friends with followers of all religions. Patriarch Bartholomew calls on the world to, "recognize the beauty of God in every living human being". Pope Francis and Rabbi Abraham Skorka demonstrate how their religious experiences have been enriched by their interfaith friendship. Grand Mufti of Egypt Shawki Allam stresses not to focus on differences between religious groups. The Dalai Lama calls for a deepening of spiritual friendship. Rabbi Jonathan Sacks says, "One of the wonderful things about spending time with people completely unlike you is that you discover how much you have in common. The same fears, hopes and concerns." Archbishop of the Church of Sweden Antje Jackelén stresses the importance for society: "This should start a process that will take prejudices away and where new insights and hope is born." The Archbishop of Canterbury adds that, "It's not complicated, start with sharing what we all share, which is the pleasure of conversation." The joint statement intends to counter a hazardous and widespread misperception that followers of religions other than our own view us with distrust and disdain. While, in reality, a new global study (n=56,000) led by the global research institute Motivaction has found that people of all faiths are generally open to people with other beliefs. Head researcher at Motivaction Martijn Lampert said, during the press conference today, that a message promoting friendship across religions is likely to resonate with the majority of religious people around the world, which according to a study by the American Pew Research Center comprises 84% of the world population. Prof. Gregory M. Reichberg of the Norwegian Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO) explained at the press conference that the misunderstanding that people of other faiths harbor animosity toward us, "sets us up for a bad dynamic and tends to produce what we fear." That misunderstanding stems from the lack of contact between religious people of different faiths, fueling prejudices and social tension. Rabbi Dr. Alon Goshen-Gottstein, director of the Elijah Interfaith Institute and the chief organizer of this joint statement, said during the press conference that this appeal is also a significant novelty from a theological perspective. "We cannot deny that in the books of many religions you can find texts that are not very open, even hostile, to people of other faiths. Therefore, when the world's most important leaders call for friendship, they are in fact affirming a particular way of practicing religion and rejecting another." Rabbi Goshen-Gottstein presented two downloadable toolkits: one for religious individuals the second for local religious leaders, ...interested in advancing and deepening interfaith friendships in their communities. Rabbi Goshen-Gottstein expressed his gratitude toward the religious leaders for making this bold statement and toward Mark Woerde and his team from Havas Lemz & Letsheal.org who conceived the idea for this project and spent years making it happen.
- World's Most Prominent Religious Leaders Make Historical Joint Appeal to Everyone - "Make Friends Across Religions"
14 June 2017
9:00 ET, 13:00 UTC, 14:00 BST, 15:00 CET
17:00 GST, 18:30 IST, 21:00 PHT, 23:00 AEST
Source
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I Grand Mufti Shawki Allam Pope Francis H.H. the Dalai Lama Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks Ayatollah Sayyid Fadhel Al-Milani Bhai Sahib Mohinder Singh Mata Amritanandamayi (Amma) Archbishop Justin Welby Sri Sri Ravi Shankar Archbishop Antje Jackelén Ayatollah Sayyid Hassan Al-Qazwini Rabbi Abraham Skorka Ven. Khandro Rinpoche
The most prominent leaders of the world's major religions released a joint appeal today calling on the people of the world to unify and make friends across religions.
The statement is intended to reduce social tension around the world by stimulating interpersonal contact between people of different faiths.
It was made by Pope Francis, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, H.H. the Dalai Lama, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and many others. Personal contact is believed to counter misperceptions, prejudices and distrust. The appeal was released as a 3-minute (above) video on Twitter (#MakeFriends) in 16 languages during a press conference in London.
Each of the leaders contributed a personal statement for the exclusive purpose of creating this joint appeal. Ayatollah Al-Milani advises people to make friends with followers of all religions.
Patriarch Bartholomew calls on the world to,
"recognize the beauty of God in every living human being".
Pope Francis and Rabbi Abraham Skorka demonstrate how their religious experiences have been enriched by their interfaith friendship. Grand Mufti of Egypt Shawki Allam stresses not to focus on differences between religious groups. The Dalai Lama calls for a deepening of spiritual friendship.
Rabbi Jonathan Sacks says,
"One of the wonderful things about spending time with people completely unlike you is that you discover how much you have in common. The same fears, hopes and concerns."
Archbishop of the Church of Sweden Antje Jackelén stresses the importance for society:
"This should start a process that will take prejudices away and where new insights and hope is born."
The Archbishop of Canterbury adds that,
"It's not complicated, start with sharing what we all share, which is the pleasure of conversation."
The joint statement intends to counter a hazardous and widespread misperception that followers of religions other than our own view us with distrust and disdain.
While, in reality, a new global study (n=56,000) led by the global research institute Motivaction has found that people of all faiths are generally open to people with other beliefs.
Head researcher at Motivaction Martijn Lampert said, during the press conference today, that a message promoting friendship across religions is likely to resonate with the majority of religious people around the world, which according to a study by the American Pew Research Center comprises 84% of the world population. Prof. Gregory M. Reichberg of the Norwegian Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO) explained at the press conference that the misunderstanding that people of other faiths harbor animosity toward us,
"sets us up for a bad dynamic and tends to produce what we fear."
That misunderstanding stems from the lack of contact between religious people of different faiths, fueling prejudices and social tension. Rabbi Dr. Alon Goshen-Gottstein, director of the Elijah Interfaith Institute and the chief organizer of this joint statement, said during the press conference that this appeal is also a significant novelty from a theological perspective.
"We cannot deny that in the books of many religions you can find texts that are not very open, even hostile, to people of other faiths. Therefore, when the world's most important leaders call for friendship, they are in fact affirming a particular way of practicing religion and rejecting another."
"We cannot deny that in the books of many religions you can find texts that are not very open, even hostile, to people of other faiths.
Therefore, when the world's most important leaders call for friendship, they are in fact affirming a particular way of practicing religion and rejecting another."
Rabbi Goshen-Gottstein presented two downloadable toolkits:
one for religious individuals the second for local religious leaders,
one for religious individuals
the second for local religious leaders,
...interested in advancing and deepening interfaith friendships in their communities. Rabbi Goshen-Gottstein expressed his gratitude toward the religious leaders for making this bold statement and toward Mark Woerde and his team from Havas Lemz & Letsheal.org who conceived the idea for this project and spent years making it happen.
The joint statement by world religious leaders for unity and friendship across diverse faiths is a very important message in its own right.
What lends this message added significance is recent information received by Corey Goode from two separate sources concerning the role of a positive group of human-looking extraterrestrials in promoting world unity and disclosure. On June 15 Goode says that he had an encounter with "Ka Aree", a representative of an inner Earth advanced civilization called the Anshar.
She told him that a human looking group of extraterrestrials is working with the Vatican and other religious leaders to bring about disclosure.
In a personal skype message on June 21, Goode gave me some background:
Ka Aree stated recently that 4 [extraterrestrial] groups had decided they would no longer abide by the M [Muhammad] Accords. They would begin a slow process of contacting people via dreams and then lead up to more open contact. A "Nordic" looking group is said to be leading this effort.
Ka Aree stated recently that 4 [extraterrestrial] groups had decided they would no longer abide by the M [Muhammad] Accords.
They would begin a slow process of contacting people via dreams and then lead up to more open contact. A "Nordic" looking group is said to be leading this effort.
He has earlier described the "Muhammad Accords" as an extraterrestrial treaty negotiated around the seventh century AD, whereby all alien groups agreed to stop openly revealing themselves to humanity and to only work in the background to secretly influence global elites.
It should be noted that the "Muhammed Accords" do not directly relate to the Prophet Muhammed (570-632), but were reached during the period when Islam was first established by him. Goode is essentially saying that four groups of extraterrestrials are now committed to open contact with humanity, and have started the process to make this a reality. World religious leaders have been contacted to act as intermediaries to introduce humanity to the extraterrestrials, and in particular the Nordic race. I asked Goode about the motivation of the Nordic race leading this initiative and he told me that according to Ka Aree, the extraterrestrials are,
"Brothers and Sisters of the Confederation".
The "Confederation of Planets" is an alliance of mainly human-looking extraterrestrials that inner-Earth civilizations closely work with according to the Law of One book series. Goode says that he was given by Ka Aree two versions of how open contact would happen:
V1 - Three religious leaders come out and introduce an angelic ET race who bring us a book and a new "esoteric/New Age" type religion based on "Oneness". V2 - Was almost the same except it was only the Pope standing next to a Nordic announcing the same thing.
V1 - Three religious leaders come out and introduce an angelic ET race who bring us a book and a new "esoteric/New Age" type religion based on "Oneness".
V2 - Was almost the same except it was only the Pope standing next to a Nordic announcing the same thing.
It is very significant that the Vatican has indeed been playing a very prominent role in encouraging its billion plus adherents to view extraterrestrials as potential "brothers in 'Christ'."
A number of Vatican astronomers have discussed extraterrestrials in this regard, and the Vatican was linked to a UNICEF video encouraging tolerance of extraterrestrial children:
Goode says that the extraterrestrial disclosure announcement "sounds very imminent", but cautions that this is not the first time such an announcement has been planned by the Vatican, and might still require a few years.
He says that an earlier attempt was made in 2008, which coincides with the Vatican's chief astronomer Gabriel Funes making statements about extraterrestrials in an interview titled "The Alien is my Brother."
Goode said that similar information about Nordic extraterrestrials being involved in a contact initiative with major religious groups had been earlier given to him by two airmen working with a US Air Force run a Secret Space Program, which works with prominent members of the intelligence community including the Defense Intelligence Agency.
It is more than coincidental that in the June 14 leak of an alleged Majestic-12 document authored by the Defense Intelligence Agency, prominence is given to human looking extraterrestrials in conducing diplomatic relations with humanity.
The document said:
There are several variations more-or-less like ourselves. The majority of these are friendly and are the bulk of our EBE contacts. Most have a high degree of psychic ability and all use science and engineering of an advanced nature.
It is worth emphasizing that this alleged Defense Intelligence Agency document was leaked on virtually the same day of the world religious leaders' unity statement - another coincidence?
While the Majestic document is currently the subject of hot debate, with several UFO researchers calling it a hoax, other prominent researchers such as Robert Wood and Stanton Friedman believe the document shows no sign of forgery and is worth serious investigation.
In my own research of the document's content, there is much there which is consistent with historical records, and provides an important overview of recent human interaction with extraterrestrials dating back to Nikola Tesla's radio experiments in the late 1800's. This suggests that the document contains genuine information despite anomalies in formatting and classification markings as critics have pointed out.
According to Goode, the Nordic extraterrestrials outreach with religious leaders is likely to lead to the birth of a new global religion:
"It is FULLY expected that over 90% of people of Earth will adopt this new ET Religion without question."
This is likely to lead to some controversy given the work of others such as Chris Putnam and Tom Horn who have been warning against the Vatican's quiet preparations for open contact with extraterrestrials.
In their 2013 book, Exo-Vaticana they do not consider the human-looking extraterrestrials who would be revealed in such an announcement by the Vatican as positive at all - they claim them to be demons in disguise.
In a review of Exo-Vaticana, I wrote about the danger of viewing extraterrestrials in this way using a myopic interpretation of biblical scripture:
Exo-Vaticana is dangerous insofar as Putnam and Horn undergird it with some powerful religious prejudices about the motivations of alien visitors to our world. They claim that biblical scripture is a solid foundation for understanding that aliens are demonic entities who destructively intervened in human history, and are about to return and do so again. In contrast, according to Putnam and Horn, Pope Francis I is preparing to lead the Catholic Church to embrace the returning/visiting aliens as "brothers in Christ" - reflective of the 1950s and 1960s contactee reports of benevolent "space brothers."
Exo-Vaticana is dangerous insofar as Putnam and Horn undergird it with some powerful religious prejudices about the motivations of alien visitors to our world.
They claim that biblical scripture is a solid foundation for understanding that aliens are demonic entities who destructively intervened in human history, and are about to return and do so again.
In contrast, according to Putnam and Horn, Pope Francis I is preparing to lead the Catholic Church to embrace the returning/visiting aliens as "brothers in Christ" - reflective of the 1950s and 1960s contactee reports of benevolent "space brothers."
Putnam's and Horn's Exo-Vaticana portends a future religious war between those accepting visiting extraterrestrials as "brothers in Christ" and those believing them to be returning demons about to enslave us.
Putnam and Horn's misgivings about welcoming extraterrestrials stems from a profound misunderstanding of the full spectrum of their motivations and activities, which I have described at length in my 2013 book, Galactic Diplomacy - Getting to Yes with ET.
Thankfully, the recently leaked Majestic document indicates that military officials are well aware that most alien visitors are friendly, and capable of becoming important allies for humanity's evolution into a galactic society.
It is a very positive development for all humanity that prominent religious leaders made a major statement advocating friendship and unity across religious traditions.
The possibility that this is a prelude for the Vatican announcing, in association with other major world religious leaders, the existence of friendly extraterrestrial visitors is something to be welcomed.
If Goode's sources are correct, then the June 14 statement for world unity takes us one step closer to disclosure of extraterrestrial life, and ending religious conflict on our planet.
Return to Global Religion
Return to Exopolitics and Michael E. Salla
Return to The Dark History of The Vatican
Return to Disclosure - Life in The Universe
