# World Depopulation is Top NSA Agenda: Club of Rome

> Source: https://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/Sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_clubrome7.htm

by Lonnie Wolfe
from IAE Website
Special Report EIR (Executive Intelligence Review) March 10, 1981 Investigations by EIR have uncovered a planning apparatus operating outside the control of the White House whose sole purpose is to reduce the worlds population by 2 billion people through war, famine, disease and any other means necessary.
This apparatus, which includes various levels of the government is determining U.S. foreign policy. In every political hotspot - El Salvador, the so-called arc of crisis in the Persian Gulf, Latin America, Southeast Asia and in Africa - the goal of U.S. foreign policy is population reduction.
The targeting agency for the operation is the National Security Councils Ad Hoc Group on Population Policy. Its policy-planning group is in the U.S. State Departments Office of Population Affairs, established in 1975 by Henry Kissinger.
This group drafted the Carter administrations Global 2000 Report, which calls for global population reduction, and the same apparatus is conducting the civil war in El Salvador as a conscious depopulation project.
"There is a single theme behind all our work-we must reduce population levels," said Thomas Ferguson, the Latin American case officer for the State Departments Office of Population Affairs (OPA). "Either they [governments] do it our way, through nice clean methods or they will get the kind of mess that we have in El Salvador, or in Iran, or in Beirut. Population is a political problem. Once population is out of control it requires authoritarian government, even fascism, to reduce it. "The professionals," said Ferguson, "arent interested in lowering population for humanitarian reasons. That sounds nice. We look at resources and environmental constraints. We look at our strategic needs, and we say that this country must lower its population - or else we will have trouble. So steps are taken. El Salvador is an example where our failure to lower population by simple means has created the basis for a national security crisis. The government of El Salvador failed to use our programs to lower their population. Now they get a civil war because of it.... There will be dislocation and food shortages. They still have too many people there."
"There is a single theme behind all our work-we must reduce population levels," said Thomas Ferguson, the Latin American case officer for the State Departments Office of Population Affairs (OPA). "Either they [governments] do it our way, through nice clean methods or they will get the kind of mess that we have in El Salvador, or in Iran, or in Beirut. Population is a political problem.
Once population is out of control it requires authoritarian government, even fascism, to reduce it. "The professionals," said Ferguson, "arent interested in lowering population for humanitarian reasons. That sounds nice. We look at resources and environmental constraints. We look at our strategic needs, and we say that this country must lower its population - or else we will have trouble. So steps are taken. El Salvador is an example where our failure to lower population by simple means has created the basis for a national security crisis. The government of El Salvador failed to use our programs to lower their population. Now they get a civil war because of it.... There will be dislocation and food shortages. They still have too many people there."
Civil wars are somewhat drawn-out ways to reduce population, the OPA official added.
"The quickest way to reduce population is through famine, like in Africa or through disease like the Black Death," all of which might occur in El Salvador.
Fergusons OPA monitors populations in the Third World and maps strategies to reduce them. Its budget for FY 1980 was $190 million; for FY 198l, it will be $220 million.
The Global 2000 Report calls for doubling that figure.
The sphere of Kissinger
In 1975, OPA was brought under a reorganized State Department Bureau of Oceans, International Environmental, and Scientific Affairs - a body created by Henry Kissinger. The agency was assigned to carry out the directives of the NSC Ad Hoc Group. According to an NSC spokesman, Kissinger initiated both groups after discussion with leaders of the Club of Rome during the 1974 population conferences in Bucharest and Rome.
The Club of Rome, controlled by Europes black nobility, is the primary promotion agency for the genocidal reduction of world population levels. The Ad Hoc Group was given "high priority" by the Carter administration, through the intervention of National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and Secretaries of State Cyrus Vance and Edmund Muskie. According to OPA expert Ferguson, Kissinger initiated a full about-face on U.S. development policy toward the Third World. "For a long time," Ferguson stated, "people here were timid". They listened to arguments from Third World leaders that said that the best contraceptive was economic reform and development.
So we pushed development programs, and we helped create a population time bomb.
"We are letting people breed like flies without allowing for natural causes to keep population down. We raised the birth survival rates, extended life-spans by lowering death rates, and did nothing about lowering birth rates. That policy is finished. We are saying with Global 2000 and in real policy that you must lower population rates. Population reduction and control is now our primary policy objective - then you can have some development."
Accordingly, the Bureau of Oceans, International Environmental, and Scientific Affairs has consistently blocked industrialization policies in the Third World, denying developing nations access to nuclear energy technology - the policies that would enable countries to sustain a growing population.
According to State Department sources, and Ferguson himself, Alexander Haig is a "firm believer" in population control.
"We will go into a country," said Ferguson, "and say, here is your goddamn development plan. Throw it out the window. Start looking at the size of your population and figure out what must be done to reduce it." If you dont like that, if you dont want to choose to do it through planning, then youll have an El Salvador or an Iran, or worse, a Cambodia."
"We will go into a country," said Ferguson, "and say, here is your goddamn development plan. Throw it out the window. Start looking at the size of your population and figure out what must be done to reduce it."
If you dont like that, if you dont want to choose to do it through planning, then youll have an El Salvador or an Iran, or worse, a Cambodia."
According to an NSC spokesman, the United States now shares the view of former World Bank President Robert McNamara that the "population crisis" is a greater threat to U.S. national security interests than "nuclear annihilation."
"Every hot spot in the world corresponds to a population crisis point," said Ferguson who would rename Brzezinskis arc of crisis doctrine the "arc of population crisis."
This is corroborated by statements in the NSC Ad Hoc Groups April 1980 report. There is "an increased potential for social unrest, economic and political instability, mass migration and possible international conflicts over control of land and resources," says the NSC report. It then cites "demographic pressures" as key to understanding,
"examples of recent warfare in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, El Salvador. Honduras, and Ethiopia, and the growing potential for instability in such places as Turkey, the Philippines, Central America, Iran, and Pakistan."
Through extraordinary efforts, the Ad Hoc Group and OPA estimate that they may be able to keep a billion people from being born through contraceptive programs. But as the Ad Hoc Groups report states, the best efforts of the Shah of Iran to institute "clean programs" of birth control failed to make a significant dent in the countrys birth rate. The promise of jobs, through an ambitious industrialization program, encouraged migration toward "overcrowded cities" like Teheran. Now under Ayatollah Khomeini, the "clean programs" have been dismantled. The government may make progress because it has a program,
"to induce up to half of Teherans 6 million residents to relocate, as well as possible measures to keep rural migrants from moving to the cities."
Behind the back of the President, Ferguson and others involved with the OPA and NSC group maintain that the United States will continue a foreign policy based on a genocidal reduction of the worlds population.
"We have a network in place of co-thinkers in the government," said the OPA case officer. "We keep going, no matter who is in the White House."
But Ferguson reports that the "White House" does not really understand what they are saying and that the President thinks that population policy means how do we speed up population increase.
"As long as no one says differently," said Ferguson, "we will continue to do our jobs. "
Return to The Club of Rome
Return to Depopulation of Planet Earth
Return to A Ponerological Profile - Henry Kissinger
Return to The NSA - The Super Secret National Security Agency
